THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              PRIVATE SECURITY INDUSTRY
                               ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                                                                    2020 Ed.

         Private Security Industry
                  Act 2007

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         General interpretation
     1.  Act not applicable to certain persons
     2.  Appointment of licensing officers and assistant licensing
     3.  officers
     4.

                                        PART 2

                 PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS AND PRIVATE
                          INVESTIGATION AGENCIES

 5. Meaning of “private investigator”
 6. No person to be private investigator without private

         investigator’s licence
 7. No person to supply private investigators’ services without

         private investigation agency’s licence
 8. Employees who are private investigators
 9. Employees who are not private investigators
10. Private investigation agency to obtain identification documents

         from client
11. Approvals required for certain security assignments
12. Duty to keep records

                                        PART 3

           SECURITY OFFICERS AND SECURITY AGENCIES

                Division 1 — Licensing and regulatory matters

13. Meaning of “security officer”
14. No person to be security officer without security officer’s

         licence

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                          2

Section   No person to supply security officers’ services without security
   15.    agency’s licence
          Employees who are security officers
   16.    Employees who are not security officers
   17.

          Division 2 — Protection from assault and harassment

17A. Assaulting or using criminal force on security officer
17B. Voluntarily causing hurt to security officer
17C. Intentionally causing harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation

         to security officer
17D. Enhanced penalty for section 17C offence committed

         subsequently
17E. Requisite knowledge that target person is acting as security

         officer
17F. Application of Protection from Harassment Act 2014*

                                        PART 4

       SECURITY SERVICE PROVIDERS AND FALSE ALARMS

18. Meaning of providing security service
19. Unlicensed security service provider prohibited
20. False alarms

          PART 5

          LICENSING PROCEDURES

21.       Grant and renewal of licence
22.       Conditions of licence
23.       Form and validity of licence
24.       Revocation or suspension of licence
25.       Effect of revocation or suspension of licence
26.       Appeal to Minister
26A.      Minister may designate others to hear appeals

                                        PART 6

           INSPECTIONS AND POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

27. Power to search premises
28. Power to arrest
29. Power to investigate
30. Monitoring powers of licensing officer

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
         Private Security Industry

3        Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Section  Obstruction of search, etc.
         Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   31.   Composition of offences
   32.   Jurisdiction of court
   33.
   34.

                                           PART 8

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   35. Unlicensed private investigation agency, unlicensed security
            agency and unlicensed security service provider not to recover
            fees, etc.

   36. Service of documents, etc.
   37. Power to exempt
   38. Amendment of Schedule
   39. Regulations

            The Schedule — Security equipment

An Act to provide for the regulation of private investigators, private
  investigation agencies, security officers, security agencies and
  security service providers, and for matters connected therewith.

                                                               [27 April 2009]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Private Security Industry Act 2007.

General interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “approved” means approved by the licensing officer;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  4

“authorised point of departure” and “authorised point of entry”
   have the meanings given by section 2 of the Immigration
   Act 1959;

“bouncer” means a person who, in respect of any place of
   entertainment or other similar premises, and as part of his or
   her regular duties, performs for reward any function of —

          (a) screening individuals seeking entry;

          (b) controlling or monitoring the behaviour of
               individuals; or

          (c) removing individuals for behavioural reasons;

“business entity” includes —

          (a) a sole proprietorship or firm registered under the
               Business Names Registration Act 2014;

          (b) a body corporate incorporated under the Companies
               Act 1967; and

          (c) a limited liability partnership registered under the
              Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“employ” does not include subcontract or arrange by contract,
   franchise or otherwise with another person for the purpose of
   that other person employing or providing persons;

“licence” means any of the following licences granted under this
   Act:

          (a) a private investigator’s licence;

          (b) a private investigation agency’s licence;

          (c) a security officer’s licence;

          (d) a security agency’s licence; or

          (e) a security service provider’s licence;

“licensed” means licensed as a private investigator, private
   investigation agency, security officer, security agency or
   security service provider under this Act;

“licensee” means the holder of a licence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
   Private Security Industry

5                       Act 2007                             2020 Ed.

   “licensing officer”, in relation to any provision in this Act,
      means any licensing officer appointed under section 4(1) for
      the purposes of that provision, and includes any assistant
      licensing officer appointed by such a licensing officer under
      section 4(2) and subject to the licensing officer’s direction
      and control;

   “officer”, in relation to a business entity, means —

   (a) a director, partner, member of the board of
        management, chief executive, manager, secretary or
        other similar officer of a business entity that is a body
        corporate;

   (b) a partner of a business entity that is a partnership; or

   (c) a president, secretary, or any member of the
       committee of management of a business entity that
       is an unincorporated association (other than a
       partnership), or any person holding a position
       analogous to that of president, secretary or member
       of a committee,

   and includes a person who can control or substantially
   influence the conduct of the affairs of the business entity;

   “political figure” means the President, the Prime Minister, a
      Minister or a Minister of State;

   “reward” means reward under any scheme, agreement,
      understanding, promise, undertaking (whether express or
      implied) or other arrangement;

   “screening” means —

   (a) a search of an individual, or of any property in the
        individual’s possession, by means of an equipment
        that is designed to carry out the search without
        touching the individual or the individual’s property,
        as the case may be;

   (b) a frisk search of an individual conducted by quickly
        running the hands over the individual’s outer
        clothing, and an examination of anything worn or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  6

          carried by the individual that is conveniently and
          voluntarily removed by the individual; or

          (c) a physical search of any personal property in the
              individual’s possession, not being clothing worn by
              the individual;

“security equipment” means any equipment specified in
   the Schedule.

                                                                    [29/2014]

Act not applicable to certain persons

 3. This Act does not apply to —

       (a) any member of the Singapore Police Force in the exercise
            of his or her functions as a police officer;

       (b) any member of the Singapore Armed Forces in the exercise
            of his or her functions as such member;

       (c) any public officer or employee of the Government in the
            exercise of his or her functions as such officer or
            employee;

       (d) any officer or employee of the Auxiliary Police Force
            created under the Police Force Act 2004 in the exercise of
            his or her functions as an auxiliary police officer;

       (e) any person appointed under the Air Navigation Act 1966 to
            investigate into accidents arising out of or in the course of
            air navigation and occurring in or over Singapore or to
            Singapore aircraft; and

        (f) any person appointed under the Rapid Transit Systems
            Act 1995 to investigate into accidents on any part of the
            railway in Singapore.

Appointment of licensing officers and assistant licensing
officers

 4.—(1) The Minister may appoint one or more public officers by
name or office to be the licensing officer or officers responsible for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
   Private Security Industry

7  Act 2007                   2020 Ed.

the administration of this Act, either generally or for any particular
provision of this Act.

 (2) A licensing officer may appoint such number of public officers
to be assistant licensing officers as are necessary to assist him or her
in carrying out the licensing officer’s functions and duties under this
Act.

 (3) The functions and duties conferred on a licensing officer by this
Act may be performed by any assistant licensing officer appointed by
the licensing officer under subsection (2) and subject to the direction
and control of the licensing officer.

 (4) The Minister may from time to time give to any licensing officer
such directions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as the
Minister may consider necessary for carrying out the provisions of
this Act; and the licensing officer must comply with any direction so
given.

                                    PART 2
             PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS AND PRIVATE

                      INVESTIGATION AGENCIES
Meaning of “private investigator”

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), “private investigator” means any
individual who, for reward, carries out any of the following functions:

       (a) obtaining and giving information about any person;
       (b) searching for missing persons;
       (c) obtaining and giving information as to the cause and origin

            of or responsibility for any fire, libel, loss or accident or
            any damage to real or personal property;
       (d) obtaining and giving information as to the location or
            recovery of lost or stolen property; or
       (e) obtaining evidence to be used in any civil or criminal
            proceedings.
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a private investigator does not
include —

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  8

(a) a person employed by an employer to obtain and give
     information about another person who is employed by the
     employer, or whom the employer intends to employ;

(b) a person employed by a business entity to obtain and give
     information about the character or nature of business of
     another business entity for the purpose of any business
     venture undertaken or to be undertaken by the employer or
     exclusively for the purposes of market research; and

          (c) a person who carries out any function mentioned in
              paragraphs (a) to (e) of subsection (1) —

          (i) as part of the person’s profession or business as an
              advocate and solicitor or as part of the person’s
              occupation as an employee of an advocate and
              solicitor;

          (ii) as part of the person’s profession or business as a
               public accountant or as part of the person’s
               occupation as an employee of a public accountant;

          (iii) as part of the person’s business of obtaining or giving
                information as to the financial rating or standing of
                another person; or

          (iv) as part of the person’s business of insurance or as an
               insurance adjustment agency, or as part of the
               person’s occupation as an employee of the person
               carrying on the business of insurance or the
               insurance adjustment agency.

(3) In this section, “market research” includes —

(a) discovering whether a person is a potential customer for
     any goods or services or the extent of the person’s
     satisfaction with goods or services supplied to the
     person; and

(b) obtaining information from any person for the purpose of
     analysing public opinion on any matter (whether or not
     relating to the market for any goods or services).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
   Private Security Industry

9  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

No person to be private investigator without private
investigator’s licence

   6.—(1) A person must not —

   (a) carry out for reward (whether in the course of business or
        of employment) any function of a private investigator; or

   (b) advertise, or in any way hold out, that the person carries out
        or is willing to carry out for reward any function of a
        private investigator,

except under and in accordance with a private investigator’s licence
granted under this Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

No person to supply private investigators’ services without
private investigation agency’s licence

 7.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) engage in the business of supplying, for reward, the
            services of private investigators to other persons; or

       (b) advertise, or in any way hold out, that the person supplies
            for reward, or is willing to supply for reward, the services
            of private investigators,

except under and in accordance with a private investigation agency’s
licence granted under this Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

Employees who are private investigators

 8.—(1) A person must not employ another person as a private
investigator unless the other person is a licensed private investigator.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  10

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (3) A person (whether or not a licensed private investigation
agency) who employs, or is about to employ, as a private investigator
any licensed private investigator must —

(a) before employing the licensed private investigator; and

(b) not later than 14 days after terminating the employment of
     the licensed private investigator,

inform the licensing officer in the prescribed form and manner of the
proposed employment or termination of employment, as the case may
be.

 (4) Where an employer or a former employer of a licensed private
investigator contravenes subsection (3), the employer or former
employer (as the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Employees who are not private investigators

 9.—(1) A licensed private investigation agency must, not later than
14 days after —

       (a) employing any person other than as a private investigator,
            such as secretarial, clerical or other staff of a similar kind,
            to assist in the business of the private investigation agency;
            or

       (b) terminating the employment of any employee referred to in
            paragraph (a),

inform the licensing officer in the prescribed form and manner of the
employment or termination of employment, as the case may be.

 (2) If the licensing officer is of the opinion that any person who is
employed other than as a private investigator by a licensed private
investigation agency is not a fit and proper person to be so employed,
the licensing officer may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

11  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) give written notice of his or her opinion to the licensed
         private investigation agency, stating the name of that
         person; and

    (b) despite any other law or the provisions of any
         memorandum or articles of association or other
         constitution of the licensed private investigation agency,
         direct the licensed private investigation agency to
         terminate the employment of the person named in the
         notice given under paragraph (a).

 (3) Any licensed private investigation agency who contravenes
subsection (1) or fails to comply with any direction under
subsection (2)(b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) In deciding for the purposes of subsection (2) whether an
employee is a fit and proper person to be employed other than as a
private investigator by a licensed private investigation agency, the
licensing officer may consider the following matters as indicating that
the employee may not be a fit and proper person:

    (a) that the employee had on a previous occasion applied for a
         private investigator’s licence or a private investigation
         agency’s licence, and such application had been refused by
         the licensing officer;

    (b) that the employee associates with a criminal in a way that
         indicates involvement in an unlawful activity;

    (c) that in dealings in which the employee has been involved,
        the employee has shown dishonesty or lack of integrity; or

    (d) that the continued employment of the employee is not in
         the public interest or may pose a threat to national security.

Private investigation agency to obtain identification documents
from client

 10.—(1) A licensed private investigation agency must not accept
any engagement to supply to any person the services of licensed
private investigators employed by that licensed private investigation

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  12

agency unless, in relation to each occasion on which the licensed
private investigation agency is engaged to provide such services,
there is first obtained by the licensed private investigation agency —

(a) the name and address of the person engaging those
     services; and

(b) a copy of the person’s passport, identity card or such other
     document establishing the person’s identity as the
     licensing officer may specify in any particular case.

 (2) A licensed private investigation agency that contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Approvals required for certain security assignments

 11.—(1) A person (whether or not a licensed private investigation
agency) must not —

       (a) accept any engagement to supply the services of a private
            investigator, or a licensed private investigator employed by
            the person; or

       (b) deploy any licensed private investigator employed by the
            person,

to carry out any security assignment mentioned in subsection (2)
except with the licensing officer’s prior written approval.

 (2) In this section, “security assignment” means —

       (a) any engagement by a government of any country other than
            Singapore, or of an agency of such government, for the
            services of a private investigator;

       (b) any activity which involves the gathering of information
            on or surveillance of any individual who is —

               (i) a political figure;

              (ii) the representative in Singapore of the government of
                   another country or territory other than an honorary
                   representative;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

13  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (iii) a consul or trade commissioner of another country or
          territory other than an honorary consul or trade
          commissioner;

    (iv) a member of the official staff of a foreign diplomatic
         mission or foreign consulate in Singapore; or

    (v) a member of the family of a person covered by
         sub‑paragraph (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), where the family
         member is part of the person’s household;

    (c) any activity which involves the gathering of information
        on or surveillance of any of the following premises in
        Singapore or part thereof or any person residing or working
        therein:

    (i) any protected area or protected place within the
        meaning of the Infrastructure Protection Act 2017;

    (ii) any foreign diplomatic mission or foreign consulate
         in Singapore;

    (iii) any building or part of a building that is owned or
          occupied by or on behalf of the Government;

    (iv) any authorised point of entry or authorised point of
         departure within the meaning of the Immigration
         Act 1959;

    (v) any private school which does not receive a grant
         from the Government and provides full-time
         primary, secondary or pre‑tertiary education or all
         to pupils most of whom are neither citizens nor
         permanent residents of Singapore, and includes any
         hostel, dormitory or other rooms or premises
         provided for the housing or lodging of some or all
         of the pupils of that school out of school hours,
         whether or not the hostels, dormitories or other
         rooms or premises are in or part of the same building
         or group of buildings as the classrooms; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  14

          (vi) any other premises which are declared by the
               Minister, by order in the Gazette, to be premises
               for the purposes of this section; or

       (d) any other activity which the Minister may prescribe being
            an activity which is not in the public interest or may pose a
            threat to national security if carried out by any licensed
            private investigator or licensed private investigation
            agency.

                                                                                                           [41/2017]

 (3) A licensed private investigator must not perform any security
assignment where he or she knows or ought reasonably to know that
no prior approval as required by subsection (1) has been obtained
from the licensing officer to do so.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (5) It is a defence if a person charged with an offence of
contravening subsection (1) in relation to a security assignment
concerning any individual mentioned in subsection (2)(b), proves that
the person did not know, and could not reasonably be expected to
have known, that the individual is an individual mentioned in
subsection (2)(b).

(6) An application for approval under subsection (1) must —

(a) be made to the licensing officer in such form or manner as
     the licensing officer may require; and

(b) be accompanied by —

          (i) such particulars, information and documents as the
              licensing officer may require; and

          (ii) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (7) At the licensing officer’s request, the applicant must provide
any further information or evidence as the licensing officer may
require to decide the application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

15                        Act 2007                            2020 Ed.

 (8) Upon receipt of an application for approval under
subsection (1), the licensing officer may —

    (a) grant the approval, with or without conditions; or

    (b) refuse approval.

 (9) A person who has obtained an approval from the licensing
officer must immediately inform the licensing officer of any change
in any information supplied to the licensing officer for the purpose of
obtaining the approval.

 (10) The licensing officer may extend any validity period specified
in an approval upon an application by the person to whom the
approval is granted.

 (11) The licensing officer may, at any time, revoke any approval
that has been granted under subsection (1) in respect of a security
assignment that is specified in the approval, if the licensing officer —

    (a) is of the view that due to any change in the circumstances
         after granting the approval, the continued provision of the
         services of a private investigator in connection with that
         security assignment is not in the public interest or may
         pose a threat to national security; or

    (b) is satisfied that any condition imposed by the licensing
         officer in granting that approval has not been complied
         with.

 (12) If the licensing officer revokes any approval that has been
granted in respect of a security assignment, and the person to whom
the approval had been granted continues —

    (a) to supply the services of a private investigator, or a
         licensed private investigator employed by the person; or

    (b) to deploy any licensed private investigator employed by
         the person,

to carry out that security assignment, that person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                      Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.              Act 2007                                      16

Duty to keep records

12.—(1) A licensed private investigation agency must —

(a) in relation to each occasion on which the licensed private
     investigation agency is engaged to provide the services of
     licensed private investigators the licensed private
     investigation agency employs, keep a record of the
     following information:

          (i) the name and address of the person engaging those
              services;

          (ii) the date on which the services are provided;

          (iii) details of the services provided; and

          (iv) such other particulars as may be prescribed; and

(b) retain every such record for a period of at least 5 years from
     the date of the occasion to which the record relates.

 (2) Every employer of a licensed private investigator who is not a
licensed private investigation agency must —

(a) retain a record of every assignment handled by the private
     investigator while in his or her employment, which
     includes —

          (i) the name and particulars of any person investigated;

          (ii) all actions taken by the private investigator on each
               assignment; and

          (iii) such other particulars as may be prescribed; and

(b) keep such records for a period of at least 5 years from the
     date of commencement of the assignment to which the
     record relates.

 (3) Every person required under this section to keep records must
furnish to the licensing officer such records at such time and in such
format and through such medium (whether electronic or otherwise) as
the licensing officer may require.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

17  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (5) If a person who is required under this section to keep or submit
records —

    (a) makes a record that —

    (i) is false or misleading; or

    (ii) omits any matter or thing without which the record is
         misleading;

    (b) knows that the record is as described in paragraph (a); and

    (c) furnishes the record to the licensing officer following a
        requirement made under subsection (3),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

(6) Subsection (5) does not apply —

    (a) if the record is not false or misleading in a material
         particular; or

    (b) if the record did not omit any matter or thing without which
         the record is misleading in a material particular.

                                    PART 3

       SECURITY OFFICERS AND SECURITY AGENCIES

            Division 1 — Licensing and regulatory matters

Meaning of “security officer”

 13. In this Act, “security officer” means any individual who, for
reward, carries out any of the following functions:

       (a) patrolling or guarding another person’s property (including
            cash in transit) by physical means (which may involve the
            use of patrol dogs) or by electronic means;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  18

(b) keeping the property (including cash in transit) of another
     person under surveillance, including for the purpose of
     preventing theft thereof;

          (c) acting as a bodyguard or bouncer;

(d) in respect of any public place or other premises and as part
     of his or her regular duties, performing any function of
     screening individuals seeking entry thereto;

          (e) regulating traffic under the Road Traffic Act 1961.

No person to be security officer without security officer’s
licence

 14.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) carry out for reward any function of a security officer; or

       (b) advertise, or in any way hold out, that the person carries out
            or is willing to carry out for reward any function of a
            security officer,

except under and in accordance with a security officer’s licence
granted under this Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

No person to supply security officers’ services without security
agency’s licence

 15.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) engage in the business of supplying, for reward, the
            services of security officers to other persons; or

       (b) advertise, or in any way hold out, that the person supplies
            for reward, or is willing to supply for reward, the services
            of security officers,

except under and in accordance with a security agency’s licence
granted under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

19  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

Employees who are security officers

 16.—(1) A person must not employ another person as a security
officer unless the other person is a licensed security officer.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (3) A person (whether or not a licensed security agency) who
employs, or is about to employ, as a security officer any person who is
a licensed security officer must —

       (a) before employing the licensed security officer; and

       (b) not later than 14 days after terminating the employment of
            the licensed security officer,

inform the licensing officer in the prescribed form and manner of the
proposed employment or termination of employment, as the case may
be.

 (4) Where an employer or a former employer of a licensed security
officer contravenes subsection (3), the employer or former employer
(as the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Employees who are not security officers

 17.—(1) A licensed security agency must, not later than 14 days
after —

       (a) employing any person other than as a security officer, such
            as secretarial, clerical or other staff of a similar kind, to
            assist in the business of the security agency; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  20

(b) terminating the employment of any such employee
     mentioned in paragraph (a),

inform the licensing officer in the prescribed form and manner of the
employment or termination of employment, as the case may be.

 (2) If the licensing officer is of the opinion that any person who is
employed other than as a security officer by a licensed security
agency is not a fit and proper person to be so employed, the licensing
officer may —

(a) give written notice of his or her opinion to the licensed
     security agency, stating the name of that person; and

(b) despite any other law or the provisions of any
     memorandum or articles of association or other
     constitution of the licensed security agency, direct the
     licensed security agency to terminate the employment of
     the person named in the notice given under paragraph (a).

 (3) A licensed security agency that contravenes subsection (1) or
fails to comply with any direction under subsection (2)(b) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (4) In deciding for the purposes of subsection (2) whether an
employee is a fit and proper person to be employed other than as a
security officer by a licensed security agency, the licensing officer
may consider the following matters as indicating that the employee
may not be a fit and proper person:

(a) that the employee had on a previous occasion applied for a
     security officer’s licence or a security agency’s licence,
     and such application had been refused by the licensing
     officer;

(b) that the employee associates with a criminal in a way that
     indicates involvement in an unlawful activity;

          (c) that in dealings in which the employee has been involved,
              the employee has shown dishonesty or lack of integrity; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

21  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) that the continued employment of the employee is not in
         the public interest or may pose a threat to national security.

        Division 2 — Protection from assault and harassment

Assaulting or using criminal force on security officer

 17A.—(1) An individual who assaults or uses criminal force on a
person (called in this section the target person) —

       (a) in the execution of the target person’s duty as a security
            officer;

       (b) with intent to prevent or deter the target person from
            discharging his or her duty as a security officer; or

       (c) in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done
            by the target person in the lawful discharge of his or her
            duty as a security officer,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $7,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

 (2) In this section, “assault” and “criminal force” are to be
construed in accordance with sections 349, 350 and 351 of the
Penal Code 1871*.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

Voluntarily causing hurt to security officer

 17B.—(1) An individual who voluntarily causes hurt to a person
(called in this section the target person) —

       (a) in the execution of the target person’s duty as a security
            officer;

       (b) with intent to prevent or deter the target person from
            discharging his or her duty as a security officer; or

       (c) in consequence of anything done or attempted to be done
            by the target person in the lawful discharge of his or her
            duty as a security officer,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  22

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5
years or to both.

 (2) In this section, “voluntarily causes hurt” is to be construed in
accordance with section 321 of the Penal Code 1871*.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

Intentionally causing harassment, alarm, distress or
humiliation to security officer

 17C.—(1) An individual must not by any means —

       (a) use any threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or indecent
            words or behaviour; or

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2025 wef 29/06/2026]

       (b) make any threatening, abusive, insulting, sexual or
            indecent communication,

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2025 wef 29/06/2026]

towards a person (called in this section the target person) in relation to
the execution of the target person’s duty as a security officer, with the
intent to cause harassment, alarm, distress or humiliation to the target
person and as a result causing the target person harassment, alarm,
distress or humiliation.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2025 wef 29/06/2026]

 (2) Subject to section 17D, an individual who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the accused did not know and had no reason to believe that
            the words or behaviour used, or the communication made,
            would be heard, seen or otherwise perceived by the target
            person; or

       (b) the accused’s conduct was reasonable.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

23  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) However, for the purposes of this section, a target person is not
treated as executing a duty as a security officer or acting in the
capacity of a security officer if the target person is, at the relevant
time, also a public service worker as defined in section 6(5) of the
Protection from Harassment Act 2014* and acting in the capacity of
such a public service worker.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2025 wef 29/06/2026]

Enhanced penalty for section 17C offence committed
subsequently

 17D. An individual who has been convicted of any offence
under —

       (a) the repealed section 13A, 13B, 13C or 13D of the
            Miscellaneous Offences (Public Order and Nuisance)
            Act 1906* as in force before 15 November 2014
            (whether the conviction was before, on or after that date);

       (b) section 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of the Protection from Harassment
            Act 2014*; or

       (c) section 17C,

shall, on a subsequent conviction for an offence under section 17C, be
liable to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

Requisite knowledge that target person is acting as security
officer

 17E. No offence is committed by an individual under
section 17A(1), 17B(1) or 17C(2) unless the individual knows or
ought reasonably to know that the target person mentioned in
section 17A(1), 17B(1) or 17C(1) was at the material time a security
officer and acting in that capacity.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                 Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.         Act 2007                                           24

Application of Protection from Harassment Act 2014*

 17F.—(1) A reference in sections 12(1), (2), (2A) and (2B)(b),
13(1)(a)(i) and (ii) and (1A) and 13A(1)(a) and (3)(a) of the
Protection from Harassment Act 2014* to a contravention or an
alleged contravention, or an offence, under section 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of
that Act includes a contravention or an alleged contravention, or an
offence, under section 17C(2), as the case may be.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (2) The following provisions of the Protection from Harassment
Act 2014* apply with the necessary modifications because of

subsection (1):

(a) section 10;

(b) Division 1 of Part 3 (except section 11);

          (c) sections 16C, 16CB and 16D;

(d) Part 3A;

          (e) sections 19, 20 and 21;

          (f) the Schedule as it applies in relation to sections 12(2A)(a)
              and 13(1A)(a).

                                               [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (3) Any word or expression used in, or relevant for the purpose of
interpreting, section 17C, 17D, 17E or this section and that is defined
in section 2(1) of the Protection from Harassment Act 2014* has the
meaning given to it by section 2(1) of that Act.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                    PART 4

   SECURITY SERVICE PROVIDERS AND FALSE ALARMS

Meaning of providing security service

 18.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person is said to provide a
security service if the person carries on any one or more of the
following activities:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

25  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) installing, maintaining, repairing or servicing, by physical
         or electronic means —

    (i) any security equipment in any premises or any
        vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other means of
        conveyance; or

    (ii) any mechanical, electronic, acoustic or other
         equipment that the person installing, maintaining,
         repairing or servicing the equipment purports to be
         equipment that is designed or adapted to provide or
         enhance security or for the protection or watching of
         any property;

    (b) designing, selling, importing or exporting —

    (i) any security equipment (other than basic household
        or automotive security items at approved classes of
        retail outlets or intruder alarm systems); or

    (ii) any mechanical, electronic, acoustic or other
         equipment that the person installing, maintaining,
         repairing or servicing the equipment purports to be
         equipment that is designed or adapted to provide or
         enhance security or for the protection or watching of
         any property;

    (c) providing product advice in relation to security equipment,
         other than basic household or automotive security items at
         approved classes of retail outlets;

                                                                        [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

    (d) [Deleted by Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

    (e) [Deleted by Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

    (f) selling any intelligent banknote neutralisation system;

    (g) employing an intelligent banknote neutralisation system in
         carrying out cash‑in‑transit services;

    (h) providing alarm surveillance services, or other
         surveillance, tracking or monitoring services using
         security equipment;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  26

          (i) providing training or instruction in relation to any activity
              mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (h), including assessing
              another person’s training, instruction or competencies in
              relation to any such activity;

          (j) providing persons to carry on any activity mentioned in
              paragraphs (a) to (i);

       (k) any other activity, or class of activities, that is connected
            with security or the protection of persons or property,
            whether by physical or electronic means, and that is
            declared by the Minister by notification in the Gazette to be
            a security service for the purposes of this section.

                                                                                                             [6/2019]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a person does not provide a security
service only because the person sells self-install security systems, that
is, a security system designed so that it can be installed by an ordinary
consumer.

 (3) In this section, “intelligent banknote neutralisation system”
means a security system which is designed to deter unauthorised
access to currency notes by mutilating, destroying or permanently
damaging the currency notes, such as by the application of a staining
or degradation agent to the currency notes or otherwise.

                                                                                                             [6/2019]

Unlicensed security service provider prohibited

 19.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) engage in the business of providing, for reward, any
            security service to other persons; or

       (b) advertise, or in any way hold out, that the person (who is in
            the business of providing any security service) provides for
            reward, or is willing to provide for reward, the security
            service,

except under and in accordance with a security service provider’s
licence granted under this Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

27  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

False alarms

 20.—(1) The licensing officer may charge according to a prescribed
scale of charges for the attendance of any police officer at any
premises in response to a call arising out of a false alarm.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a false alarm is the activation of
an alarm system by reasons other than fire or intruders.

 (3) The charge mentioned in subsection (1) is payable by a
prescribed licensed security service provider in respect of each
occasion any police officer attends at any premises in response to a
call arising out of a false alarm at those premises where —

       (a) the alarm system at those premises is installed or
            maintained by that licensed security service provider; and

       (b) the licensing officer is satisfied that the licensed security
            service provider had failed to take all reasonably
            practicable measures to verify whether the activation of
            the alarm system is a false alarm before making or causing
            the call to be made.

 (4) A person who —

       (a) intentionally gives a false alarm of fire or intruder; or

       (b) is reckless about whether it would cause a person to fear
            that there is a fire or an intruder, or cause an emergency
            service to respond to the alarm,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (5) A court convicting an offender of an offence of contravening
subsection (4) may, in addition to or without imposing a penalty on
the offender —

       (a) assess the amount of any expenses needlessly incurred by
            the police or other emergency services as a result of the
            false alarm; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  28

(b) order the offender to pay the amount so assessed to the
     Government or other statutory body by which or by whom
     the expenses were so incurred.

 (6) In this section, “alarm system” means an intruder alarm system
of the type prescribed, being a device or series of devices, including
hardwired systems and systems interconnected with a radio
frequency method such as cellular or private radio signals, which
emit or transmit a remote or local audible, visual or electronic signal
indicating an alarm condition, but does not include an alarm installed
in a vehicle or a personal alarm attached to the body of an individual.

                                    PART 5

                       LICENSING PROCEDURES

Grant and renewal of licence

 21.—(1) An application for a licence must —

       (a) be made to the licensing officer in such form or manner as
            the licensing officer may require; and

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) such particulars, information and documents as the
                   licensing officer may require; and

              (ii) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (2) An applicant for a licence must, at the licensing officer’s
request, provide any further information or evidence, or any trial or
demonstration of any security service, or of any equipment to be
employed in carrying out any security service, proposed to be
provided by the applicant, that the licensing officer may require to
decide the application.

                                                                                                             [6/2019]

 (3) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (1), the
licensing officer may —

       (a) grant the licence applied for, with or without conditions; or

       (b) refuse the application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

29  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person who applies to be
licensed, or to renew the person’s licence is eligible to be granted a
licence or a renewal of the licence if, and only if —

    (a) the applicant has paid the prescribed fees for such licence
         or its renewal;

    (b) where the applicant is an individual, he or she satisfies the
         licensing officer that he or she has the qualifications and
         the practical experience (whether in Singapore or
         elsewhere) prescribed for that licence; and

    (c) the applicant satisfies such other requirements as may be
        prescribed for such licence or its renewal.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (4), the licensing officer may
refuse to grant a licence, or to renew a licence of a person if, in the
licensing officer’s opinion—

    (a) where the person who applies to be licensed, or to renew
         the person’s licence is an individual, the person is not a fit
         or proper person to hold or to continue to hold the licence;

    (b) where the person who applies to be licensed, or to renew
         the person’s licence is a business entity, an officer of the
         business entity is not a fit or proper person; or

    (c) it is not in the public interest to grant or renew the licence,
        or the grant or renewal of the licence may pose a threat to
        national security.

 (6) A licence may be renewed upon its expiry, and subsections (1),
(2) and (3) apply, with the necessary modifications, to an application
for the renewal of a licence.

(7) A person who, in making an application for a licence —

    (a) makes any statement or furnishes any particulars,
         information or document which the person knows to be
         false or does not believe to be true; or

    (b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
         furnishes any information which is misleading in a
         material particular,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  30

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (8) In deciding for the purposes of this section whether a person or
an officer of a business entity is a fit and proper person, the licensing
officer may consider any of the following matters as indicating that
the person or officer may not be a fit and proper person:

(a) that the person or officer associates with a criminal in a
     way that indicates involvement in an unlawful activity;

(b) that in dealings in which the person or officer has been
     involved, the person or officer —

          (i) has shown dishonesty or lack of integrity; or

          (ii) used harassing tactics;

          (c) that the person or officer is or was suffering from a mental
              disorder;

(d) that the person or officer is an undischarged bankrupt or
     has entered into a composition with the person’s or
     officer’s debtors.

 (9) Subsection (8) does not limit the circumstances in which a
person or an officer of a business entity may be considered by the
licensing officer not to be a fit and proper person.

Conditions of licence

 22.—(1) The licensing officer may grant a licence to an applicant
subject to such conditions as the licensing officer thinks fit to impose.

 (2) The licensing officer may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition of a licence imposed under subsection (1).

 (3) Before making any modification to the conditions of a licence
under this section, the licensing officer must give notice to the
licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that he or she proposes to make the modification in
            the manner specified in the notice; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

31  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days from the date of
         service of notice on the licensee concerned) within which
         written representations with respect to the proposed
         modification may be made.

 (4) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (3)(b), the licensing officer is to consider the
representation and may reject the representation or amend the
proposed modification in accordance with the representation, or
otherwise and, in either event, must issue a written direction to the
licensee concerned requiring that effect be given to the proposed
modification specified in the notice or to such modification as
subsequently amended by the licensing officer within a reasonable
time.

 (5) A licensee who fails to comply with any licence condition of the
licensee’s licence shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Form and validity of licence
 23. A licence is to —
       (a) be in such form as the licensing officer may determine;
       (b) contain the conditions subject to which it is granted; and
       (c) be valid for such period (not exceeding 5 years) as may be
            specified in the licence.

Revocation or suspension of licence

 24.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the licensing officer may by
order revoke any licence if he or she is satisfied that —

       (a) the licensee has failed to comply with any condition
            imposed by the licensing officer on the licensee’s licence;

       (b) the licence had been obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (c) a circumstance which he or she becomes aware of would
            have required or permitted him or her to refuse to grant or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  32

          renew the licensee’s licence, had he or she been aware of
          the circumstance immediately before the licence was
          granted or renewed;

(d) the licensee has ceased to carry on in Singapore the
     business or activity for which the licensee is licensed;

          (e) the licensee has been declared bankrupt or has gone into
              compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
              purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

          (f) the licensee has been convicted of an offence under this
              Act;

(g) where the licensee is an individual — the licensee is no
     longer a fit and proper person to continue to hold the
     licence;

(h) where the licensee is a business entity — an officer of the
     business entity is no longer a fit and proper person; or

          (i) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the licensing officer may, in any case
in which he or she considers that no cause of sufficient gravity for
revoking any licence exists, by order —

(a) suspend the licence for a period not exceeding 6 months;

(b) censure the licensee concerned; or

          (c) impose such other directions or restrictions as the licensing
              officer considers appropriate on the licensee’s business or
              functions, as a private investigator, private investigation
              agency, security officer, security agency or security service
              provider, as the case may be.

 (3) The licensing officer must not exercise his or her powers under
subsection (1) or (2) unless an opportunity of being heard (whether in
person or by a representative and whether in writing or otherwise) had
been given to the licensee against whom the licensing officer intends
to exercise his or her powers, being a period of not more than 14 days
after the licensing officer informs the licensee of such intention.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

33  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) Where the licensing officer has by order revoked a licence under
subsection (1) or made any order under subsection (2) in respect of a
licensee, the licensing officer must serve on the licensee concerned a
notice of the licensing officer’s order made under those subsections.

 (5) Despite subsection (3), where a licensee holding a private
investigator’s licence or a security officer’s licence has been charged
with or convicted of a prescribed offence, being an offence which
would make it undesirable in the public interest for the licensee to
continue to carry out the functions of a private investigator or security
officer —

    (a) the licensing officer may serve on the licensee a notice of
         immediate suspension of the licence, which takes
         immediate effect and remains in force until the licensing
         officer makes an order under subsection (7) and any appeal
         to the Minister under section 26 against such an order is
         determined; and

    (b) the licensee must, upon a notice being served under
         paragraph (a) but subject to subsection (7), immediately
         cease to carry out any function of a private investigator or
         security officer, as the case may be.

 (6) A licensee whose private investigator’s licence or security
officer’s licence has been suspended with immediate effect under
subsection (5) may, within 14 days after the licensing officer has
served the notice of immediate suspension under paragraph (a) of that
subsection, apply to the licensing officer to review the licensing
officer’s decision under subsection (7).

 (7) The licensing officer may, on reviewing his or her decision, by
order —

    (a) revoke the private investigator’s licence or security
         officer’s licence in question;

    (b) suspend that private investigator’s licence or security
         officer’s licence for a period not exceeding 6 months
         starting from the date of immediate suspension of that
         licence; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  34

          (c) rescind the immediate suspension of that private
              investigator’s licence or security officer’s licence.

 (8) Where the licensing officer has by order revoked or suspended a
licence under subsection (7) in respect of a licensee, the licensing
officer must serve on the licensee concerned a notice of the licensing
officer’s order made under that subsection.

 (9) Subject to section 26, an order under subsection (1), (2) or (7)(a)
or (b) by the licensing officer revoking or suspending a private
investigator’s licence or security officer’s licence does not take effect
until the expiry of 14 days after notice has been served on the licensee
under subsection (4) or (8).

 (10) In any proceedings under this section in relation to the
conviction of a licensee for a criminal offence, the licensing officer
must accept the licensee’s conviction as final and conclusive.

 (11) In deciding for the purposes of this section whether a person or
an officer of a business entity is a fit and proper person, the licensing
officer may consider any of the following matters as indicating that
the person or officer may not be a fit and proper person:

(a) that the person or officer associates with a criminal in a
     way that indicates involvement in an unlawful activity;

(b) that in dealings in which the person or officer has been
     involved, the person or officer —

          (i) has shown dishonesty or lack of integrity; or

          (ii) used harassing tactics.

 (12) Subsection (11) does not limit the circumstances in which a
person or an officer of a business entity may be considered by the
licensing officer not to be a fit and proper person.

Effect of revocation or suspension of licence

 25.—(1) Where an order of revocation or suspension of a licence
becomes effective —

       (a) the licensing officer must cause notice of the revocation or
            suspension to be served on the licensee concerned; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

35  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the licensee concerned must, as from the date of the notice,
         cease to carry on business or any function as a private
         investigator, private investigation agency, security officer,
         security agency or security service provider (as the case
         may be) in Singapore except to the extent allowed by the
         licensing officer.

 (2) Subsection (1)(b) does not prejudice the enforcement by any
person of any right or claim against the corporation, partnership or
limited liability partnership or by the corporation, partnership or
limited liability partnership of any right or claim against any person.

Appeal to Minister

 26.—(1) Any person whose application —

       (a) for approval under section 11(1); or

       (b) for a licence or for the renewal of a licence,

has been refused by the licensing officer may, within 14 days after
being notified of such refusal, appeal in the prescribed manner to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) Where an approval under section 11(1) or a licence is granted or
renewed by the licensing officer subject to conditions, the person to
whom the approval is granted or the licensee concerned may, within
14 days after being notified of such conditions, appeal in the
prescribed manner to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (3) If the licensing officer has made any order under section 24(1),
(2) or (7)(a) or (b) in respect of any licensee, the licensee concerned
may, within 14 days after being served with the notice of the order,
appeal to the Minister against the order, and the decision of the
Minister shall be final.

 (4) In any appeal under this section in relation to the conviction of
the licensee for a criminal offence, the Minister must, on appeal from
any order of the licensing officer, accept the licensee’s conviction as
final and conclusive.

 (5) Where the licensee concerned has appealed under this section to
the Minister against an order by the licensing officer under
section 24(1), (2) or (7)(a) or (b), the order does not take effect

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  36

unless the order is confirmed by the Minister or the appeal is for any
reason dismissed by the Minister or withdrawn.

Minister may designate others to hear appeals

 26A.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
persons to hear and determine, in the Minister’s place, any appeal
or a specific appeal under section 26:

       (a) the Second Minister (if any) for his or her Ministry;

       (b) any Minister of State for his or her Ministry;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary to his or her Ministry.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (2) Any reference to the Minister in section 24(5)(a) or 26 includes
a reference to a person designated under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (3) To avoid doubt, in this section —

      “Minister of State” includes a Senior Minister of State;

      “Parliamentary Secretary” includes a Senior Parliamentary
         Secretary.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

                                    PART 6

       INSPECTIONS AND POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

Power to search premises

 27. The licensing officer, on being satisfied upon any information
and after any inquiry which he or she thinks necessary that there is
good reason to believe that any place is used for the carrying on of the
business of a private investigation agency, a security agency or a
security service provider by a person who is not the holder of a
licence, may by warrant or writing under his or her hand authorise any
person therein named or any police officer, with such assistance and
by such force as is necessary, by day or by night —

       (a) to enter or go to that place and to search the place and all
            persons found therein;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

37  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) to seize all documents and things reasonably supposed to
         have been used or intended to be used in connection with
         the business which are found in that place or on those
         persons; and

    (c) to detain all those persons until they and the place have
        been searched.

Power to arrest

 28.—(1) The licensing officer or any police officer duly authorised
in writing in that behalf by the licensing officer may without warrant
arrest any person whom he or she reasonably suspects to have
committed an offence under this Act, other than an offence under
section 17A, 17B or 17C.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

 (1A) Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010* specifying what
an arrestable offence means, an offence under section 17A, 17B or
17C is to be treated as a non-arrestable offence, unless a person
offends in the view of a police officer against any of those sections.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (2) The licensing officer or any police officer duly authorised in
writing in that behalf by the licensing officer arresting a person under
subsection (1), or any police officer arresting a person by virtue of
subsection (1A), may search such person and take possession of all
articles found upon him or her which there is reason to believe were
used in connection with the offence.

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

 (3) A person must not be searched except by a person of the same
gender.

 (4) Every person so arrested must be taken to a police station.

Power to investigate

 29.—(1) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under
this Act (other than section 17A, 17B or 17C), the licensing officer or
any police officer duly authorised in writing in that behalf by the
licensing officer may exercise all or any of the special powers in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  38

relation to arrestable offences given by the Criminal Procedure Code
2010*.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (2) To avoid doubt, section 16 of the Criminal Procedure Code
2010* (relating to the procedure in non-arrestable cases) applies in
relation to an offence under section 17A, 17B or 17C that is treated as
a non-arrestable offence by virtue of section 28(1A).

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2021 wef 01/05/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

Monitoring powers of licensing officer

 30.—(1) The licensing officer or any police officer duly authorised
in writing in that behalf by the licensing officer (called in this section
an authorised police officer) has, for the purposes of the execution of
this Act, power to do all or any of the following:

       (a) to enter, inspect and examine by day or night —

               (i) the place of business of a licensed private
                   investigation agency, a licensed security agency or
                   a licensed security service provider (called in this
                   section a licensee); or

              (ii) the place where any security officer is deployed;

       (b) to require a licensee to produce any records, accounts and
            documents kept by the licensee within such reasonable
            time as is specified by the licensing officer;

       (c) to inspect, examine and make copies of any such records,
            accounts and documents so produced;

       (d) to make such inquiry as may be necessary to ascertain
            whether the provisions of this Act are complied with.

 (2) Where any such records, accounts and documents as are
mentioned in subsection (1) are kept in electronic form, then —

       (a) the power of the licensing officer or authorised police
            officer in subsection (1)(b) to require any such records,
            accounts or documents to be produced for inspection
            includes power to require a copy of the records, accounts or
            documents to be made available for inspection in legible

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

39  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

    form (and subsection (1)(c) is to accordingly apply in
    relation to any copy so made available); and

    (b) the power of the licensing officer or authorised police
         officer under subsection (1)(c) to inspect any such records,
         accounts or documents includes power to require any
         person on the premises in question to give him or her such
         assistance as he or she may reasonably require to enable
         him or her —

    (i) to inspect and make copies of the records, accounts
        or documents in legible form or to make records of
        information contained in them; or

    (ii) to inspect and check the operation of any computer,
         and any associated apparatus or material, that is or
         has been in use in connection with the keeping of the
         records, accounts or documents.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any requirement imposed under this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

                                    PART 7

                     OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Obstruction of search, etc.

 31. A person who —

       (a) refuses the licensing officer or any police officer duly
            authorised in writing in that behalf by the licensing officer
            (called in this section an authorised police officer) to enter
            or search or to access to any place;

       (b) assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays the licensing officer
            or authorised police officer in effecting any entrance which
            he or she is entitled to effect under this Act, or in the
            execution of any duty imposed or power conferred by this
            Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  40

          (c) fails to comply with any lawful demand of the licensing
              officer or authorised police officer in the execution of his
              or her duty under this Act; or

(d) refuses or neglects to give any information to the licensing
     officer or authorised police officer which may reasonably
     be required of him or her and which he or she has it in his or
     her power to give,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 32.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on his or her part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on his or her part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                 Private Security Industry

41                     Act 2007                               2020 Ed.

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership which
       has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
       Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) Regulations may provide for the application of any provision of
this section, with such modifications as the Minister considers
appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Composition of offences

 33.—(1) The licensing officer may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
             Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.     Act 2007                                               42

from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence; or

(b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Consolidated Fund.

Jurisdiction of court

 34. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

                                    PART 8

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Unlicensed private investigation agency, unlicensed security
agency and unlicensed security service provider not to recover
fees, etc.

 35. Any person who provides any service of —

       (a) a private investigator;

       (b) a private investigation agency;

       (c) a security officer;

       (d) a security agency; or

       (e) a security service provider,

shall not be entitled to bring any proceeding in any court to recover
any commission, fee, gain or reward for the service provided unless,
at the time of providing the service, the person is the holder of a valid
private investigator’s licence, a valid private investigation agency’s
licence, a valid security officer’s licence, a valid security agency’s

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

43  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

licence or a valid security service provider’s licence, as the case may
be.

Service of documents, etc.

 36.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), any document required or
authorised to be served under this Act may be served —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   individual’s usual or last known address of the place
                   of residence;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                   post to, the individual’s usual or last known address
                   of the place of business;

             (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
                   place at the individual’s usual or last known address
                   of residence or business;

              (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                   individual’s usual or last known address of the place
                   of residence or business, or the last fax number given
                   by the individual to the licensing officer or an officer
                   authorised by the licensing officer as the fax number
                   for the service of documents on the individual; or

             (vi) by electronic communication, by sending an
                   electronic communication of the document to the
                   last email address given by the individual to the
                   licensing officer or an officer authorised by the
                   licensing officer as the email address for the service
                   of documents on the individual;

       (b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
            partnership —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.  Act 2007                                                  44

          (i) by delivering it to any partner or the secretary or
              other similar officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the principal or last known place of business
               of the partnership in Singapore;

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                principal or last known place of business of the
                partnership in Singapore; or

          (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
               electronic communication of the document to the
               last email address given by the partnership to the
               licensing officer or an officer authorised by the
               licensing officer as the email address for the service
               of documents on the partnership; and

          (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
              body corporate —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate or, in the case of a
              limited liability partnership, the manager thereof;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal office of the
               limited liability partnership or body corporate in
               Singapore;

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                registered office or principal office of the limited
                liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore;
                or

          (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
               electronic communication of the document to the
               last email address given by the limited liability
               partnership or body corporate in Singapore to the
               licensing officer or an officer authorised by the
               licensing officer as the email address for the service
               of documents on the limited liability partnership or
               body corporate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

45  Act 2007                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Where any notice or other document to be served by the
licensing officer is —

    (a) sent by a fax to the fax number used at the last known place
         of residence or business or registered office or principal
         office in accordance with subsection (1), it is deemed to
         have been duly served on the person to whom it is
         addressed on the day of transmission, subject to receipt on
         the sending fax machine of a notification (by electronic or
         other means) of a successful transmission to the place of
         residence or business or registered office or principal
         office, as the case may be;

    (b) sent by electronic communication to an email address in
         accordance with subsection (1), it is deemed to have been
         duly served on the person to whom it is addressed at the
         time of entering the information system addressed to the
         email address; and

    (c) sent by prepaid registered post, it is deemed to have been
        duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
        after the day the notice or document was posted, whether or
        not it is returned undelivered.

 (3) Service of any document under this Act on a person by
electronic communication may be effected only if the person gives as
part of the person’s address for service an email address.

 (4) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

Power to exempt

 37.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, with or without
conditions, exempt any person or class of persons from all or any of
the provisions of this Act.

 (2) If any exemption is granted under subsection (1) with
conditions, the exemption operates only if the conditions are
complied with.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.               Act 2007                                     46

Amendment of Schedule

 38.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provision as
may be necessary or expedient.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 39.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, make regulations
generally for the carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for or with respect to all or any of the following matters:

       (a) taking and recording of photographs and fingerprints of
            persons applying for a licence;

       (b) displaying or surrendering of any licence by a licensee;

       (c) prescribing the type of identification documents that a
            licensed private investigator or a licensed security officer
            must carry when carrying out his or her functions as a
            private investigator or a security officer, as the case may
            be;

       (d) in relation to any licence, the class or classes of licence to
            be issued, and the circumstances in which the licence may
            be granted;

       (e) requiring a licensed security agency to maintain a register
            of all places in which the security officers employed by the
            licensed security agency are deployed for work and
            submitting such information to the licensing officer upon
            request;

        (f) regulating the conduct of security officers in the discharge
            of their functions and the conduct of security agencies and
            security service providers;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
    Private Security Industry

47                         Act 2007                           2020 Ed.

    (g) prescribing the uniform, badge or emblem to be worn by a
         licensed security officer;

    (h) prohibiting the use of any equipment or accoutrement by
         the holder of a licence and his or her employees, if any;

    (i) regulating the activities of the holder of a licence and
        prescribing the manner in which the licensee’s business is
        to be conducted;

    (j) regulating the manufacture, importation, sale, distribution,
        possession and use of security equipment;

    (k) any other matter or thing required or permitted to be
        prescribed or necessary to be prescribed to give effect to
        this Act.

(3) The regulations may —

    (a) prescribe offences in respect of the contravention of any
         specified provision thereof and may prescribe that fines not
         exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 2 years or with both, on conviction, be imposed
         in respect of any such offence; and

    (b) prescribe different fees for different classes of applicants
         for licences.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 38(1)

                                SECURITY EQUIPMENT

 1. Optical surveillance device capable of being used to record visually or
observe an activity, including night vision equipment, but does not include
spectacle, contact lenses or a similar device used by a person with impaired sight
to overcome that impairment.

 2. Audio device capable of being used to overhear, record, monitor or listen to a
conversation or words spoken to or by a person in conversation, but does not
include a hearing aid or similar device used by a person with impaired hearing to
overcome the impairment and permit the person to hear sound ordinarily audible
to the human ear.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
          Private Security Industry

2020 Ed.                       Act 2007                             48

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 3. Data surveillance device or program capable of being used to record or
monitor the input of information into, or output of information from, a computer,
but does not include an optical surveillance device.

 4. Tracking device capable of being used to determine or monitor electronically
the location of a person or an object or the status of an object.

 5. Other surveillance device that is a combination of 2 or more of the devices
mentioned in paragraphs 1 to 4.

 6. Technical surveillance counter measure equipment capable of detecting or
rendering ineffective other surveillance devices.

7. Intruder alarm systems.

 8. Electronic access control systems including card and biometric access control
systems.

9. Explosive and narcotic sniffers.

 10. Devices capable of being used to detect deception such as the polygraph
equipment.

11. Currency or document screening equipment.

12. X-ray security screening machines.

13. Walk-through metal detectors.

14. Radio frequency scanners.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                   PRIVATE SECURITY INDUSTRY

                                   ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                    PART 1
PRIVATE INVESTIGATION AND SECURITY AGENCIES ACT

            (CHAPTER 249, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 32 of 1973 — Private Investigation and Security Agencies Act, 1973

Bill           : 33/1973

First Reading  : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 26 July 1973

Commencement   : 1 December 1973

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Private Investigation and Security Agencies Act
                                   (Chapter 249)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                  PART 2
           PRIVATE SECURITY INDUSTRY ACT 2007

                      (2020 REVISED EDITION)

3. Act 38 of 2007 — Private Security Industry Act 2007

Bill           : 26/2007

First Reading  : 16 July 2007

Second and Third Readings : 27 August 2007

Commencement   : 27 April 2009

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                                      ii
Note: This Act was brought into force after it was revised in 2008.

4. Act 24 of 2010 — Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2010
   (Amendments made by section 22 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2010

First Reading  : 16 August 2010

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2010

Commencement   : 1 November 2010 (section 22)

5. Act 29 of 2014 — Business Names Registration Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 47 read with item 15 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 26/2014

First Reading  : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 2014

Commencement   : 3 January 2016 (section 47 read with
                     item 15 of the Schedule)

6. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 30 of the above Act)

Bill           : 15/2016

First Reading  : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement   : 10 June 2016 (section 30)

7. Act 41 of 2017 — Infrastructure Protection Act 2017
   (Amendments made by section 86(4) of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2017

First Reading  : 11 September 2017

Second and Third Readings : 2 October 2017

Commencement   : 18 December 2018 (section 86(4))

8. Act 6 of 2019 — Currency (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 5 of the above Act)

Bill           : 53/2018

First Reading  : 20 November 2018

Second and Third Readings : 14 January 2018

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
                       iii

Commencement           : 14 March 2019 (section 5)

9. 2020 Revised Edition — Private Security Industry
                                    Act 2007

Operation              : 31 December 2021

10. Act 29 of 2021 — Private Security Industry (Amendment) Act 2021
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Date of First Reading  : 13 September 2021 (Bill No. 22/2021
                             published on 13 September 2021)

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2021

Date of Commencement   : 1 May 2022

11. Act 23 of 2025 — Online Safety (Relief and Accountability) Act 2025
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                   : 18/2025

First Reading          : 15 October 2025

Second and Third Readings : 5 November 2025

Commencement           : 29 June 2026

                       Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
      COMPARATIVE TABLE

PRIVATE SECURITY INDUSTRY
               ACT 2007

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                2008 Ed.
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  40
[Omitted as having had effect]  41
[Omitted as spent]              42
[Omitted as spent]              43—(1)
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]                 (2)
[Omitted as spent]                 (3)
[Omitted as spent]                 (4)
[Omitted as spent]                 (5)
[Omitted as spent]                 (6)
[Omitted as spent]                 (7)
[Omitted as spent]                 (8)
[Omitted as spent]                 (9)
                                   (10)
                                   (11)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/6/2026
