         GAMBLING DUTIES ACT 2022

         (No. 1 of 2022)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “betting” and associated expressions
     2.  Meaning of “lottery” and associated expressions
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

                               GAMBLING DUTIES

                                Division 1 — Amount

 5. Gambling duties are taxes
 6. Amount of gambling duties

                               Division 2 — Liability

 7. Who is liable to pay gambling duty
 8. When gambling duty is payable
 9. Power to assess or reassess gambling duty due
10. Reassessment of liability and appeal
11. Payment of gambling duty short levied, etc.
12. Remission

                                        PART 3

                          DEFAULT AND RECOVERY

                              Division 1 — Penalty tax
13. Penalty tax in case of default
14. Amount of penalty tax
15. Recovery of penalty tax

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
2        NO. 1 OF 2022

Section                        Division 2 — Recovery

   16.   Recovery of gambling duty
   17.   Action to recover may be taken at any time
   18.   Priority of case in insolvency
   19.   Overpayment
   20.   Power to appoint agent for recovery of gambling duty

                                           PART 4

                        RETURNS, RECORD KEEPING AND
                             PROVIDING INFORMATION

   21. Application and interpretation of this Part
   22. Returns
   23. Additional returns
   24. Accounts, statements and records in respect of returns
   25. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
   26. Power to obtain information
   27. Late returns and non-compliant record keeping, etc.
   28. Misleading, etc., returns by taxable persons
   29. Refusing to give or giving false information
   30. Evasion

                                           PART 5

                                   ADMINISTRATION

   31. Administration of Act
   32. Commissioner of Gambling Duties, etc.
   33. Enforcement officials
   34. Offences for obstruction, etc.
   35. Protection from personal liability
   36. Service of documents
   37. Composition of offences
   38. Offences by corporations
   39. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   40. Jurisdiction of courts
   41. Protection of informers

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
         GAMBLING DUTIES                                           3

                            PART 6

                            MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Consolidated Fund
         Confidentiality
   42.   General exemption
   43.   Regulations
   44.
   45.

                                        PART 7

                      AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                            AND FINAL PROVISIONS

46. Related amendments to Casino Control Act
47. Consequential amendments to Goods and Services Tax Act
48. Consequential amendments to Inland Revenue Authority of

         Singapore Act
49. Consequential amendments to Private Lotteries Act
50. Consequential amendment to Singapore Totalisator Board Act
51. Repeal
52. Saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
4  NO. 1 OF 2022

An Act to consolidate the law on levy and collection of duties on
  lawful betting and lotteries and to make related amendments to the
  Casino Control Act regarding casino taxes and casino licences, to
  repeal the Betting and Sweepstake Duties Act, and to make
  consequential amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Gambling Duties Act 2022 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised betting operator” has the meaning given by
         section 3(5);

      “authorised lottery promoter” has the meaning given by
         section 4(4);

      “authorised person”, for provision of a gaming service, means a
         person who —

              (a) is authorised, under a licence, permit or other
                   authority granted under any written law, to provide
                   the gaming service in or from a place in Singapore; or

              (b) is, under any written law, exempt from the licence,
                   permit or authorisation requirements under any
                   written law that would otherwise apply for
                   providing the gaming service in or from a place in
                   Singapore,

         but excludes a holder of a casino licence granted under
         section 49 of the Casino Control Act 2006 with regard to the
         provision of the gaming service if covered by the casino
         licence;

      “bet” and “betting” have the meanings given by section 3(1), (2),
         (3) and (4);

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Gambling Duties
         appointed under section 32, and includes any Deputy
         Commissioner of Gambling Duties or Assistant
         Commissioner of Gambling Duties;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
6  NO. 1 OF 2022

   “enforcement official”, in relation to any provision of this Act or
      the Regulations, means an individual who is appointed as an
      enforcement official under section 33(1) for the purposes of
      that provision;

   “exercise of skill” includes a display of knowledge;

   “game of chance” includes a game that is partly a game of
      chance and partly a game requiring the exercise of skill;

   “gaming machine” means a device, whether wholly or partly
      mechanically or electronically operated, that —

           (a) is adapted, or designed and constructed, for betting,
                participating in a lottery or playing a game of chance;

           (b) is played or confers a right to participate (wholly or in
                part) by —

                  (i) the insertion of money or money’s worth into it;
                       or

                  (ii) the direct or indirect payment of money or
                       money’s worth or any thing of value by any
                       other means; and

           (c) pays out money or money’s worth or any thing of
                value, or registers a right to an amount of money or
                money’s worth or any thing of value,

      such as (but not limited to) a jackpot machine or fruit
      machine;

   “gaming service” means the provision of a service for the
      conduct of a game of chance where —

           (a) the game may be played for money or money’s worth
                or any thing else of value; and

           (b) a customer of the service gives or agrees to give
                money or money’s worth or any thing else of value to
                play or enter the game;

   “IRAS” means the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
      established under the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
      Act 1992;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           7

“lottery” has the meaning given by section 4;

“money’s worth” means any thing recognised as equivalent to
   money, and includes virtual credits, virtual coins, virtual
   tokens, virtual objects or any similar thing that is purchased
   within, or as part of, or in relation to, a game of chance;

“non-casino premises” means any premises in Singapore that is
   not covered by a casino licence granted under section 49 of
   the Casino Control Act 2006;

“officer” —

        (a) in relation to a corporation, means any director,
             partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other
             similar officer of the corporation, and includes —

               (i) any person purporting to act in any such
                    capacity; and

               (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
                    its members, any of those members as if the
                    member were a director of the corporation; and

        (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
             than a partnership), means the president, the
             secretary, or any member of the committee of the
             unincorporated association, and includes —

               (i) any person holding a position analogous to that
                    of president, secretary or member of a
                    committee of the unincorporated association;
                    and

               (ii) any person purporting to act in any such
                    capacity;

“penalty tax” means a penalty tax imposed under section 13;

“premises” means —

        (a) any space, whether built on or not and whether
             underground or underwater, or any part of such a
             space; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
8  NO. 1 OF 2022

           (b) any building or structure, whether situated
                underground or underwater, or any part of a
                building or structure or place,

      and includes any vehicle, train, vessel or aircraft or any part
      of it;

   “prize”, in relation to a lottery or game of chance, includes any
      money or money’s worth, articles or services or other thing of
      value —

           (a) whether or not described as a prize; and

           (b) whether or not consisting wholly or partly of money
                or money’s worth paid, or articles or services or other
                thing of value provided, by the persons of the class
                among whom the prize is allocated;

   “Regulations” means regulations made under section 45;

   “relevant business” means any business in Singapore, whether
      or not carried on for profit, but excludes any business wholly
      for the conduct of research or wholly not involving any
      gambling;

   “remote communication” means communication through —

           (a) the Internet;

           (b) telephone;

           (c) television or radio; or

           (d) any other kind of electronic or other technology for
                facilitating communication;

   “return” means a return required under section 22 or 23;

   “return date”, for a taxable person, means the last day by which
      the taxable person is required under section 22 or 23 to lodge
      a return with respect to a taxable gambling undertaking and
      the gambling duty payable in respect of the taxable gambling
      undertaking;

   “taxable gambling undertaking” has the meaning given by
      section 5(1);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           9

      “taxable person” means a person liable to pay for any gambling
         duty under section 7;

      “totalisator” has the meaning given by the Singapore Totalisator
         Board Act 1987.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person plays a game of chance if
the person participates in a game of chance whether or not there are
other participants in the game of chance, and whether or not a
computer generates images or data taken to represent the actions of
other participants in the game of chance.

 (3) To avoid doubt, a person plays a game of chance for money or
money’s worth if the person plays a game of chance and thereby
acquires a chance of winning any money or money’s worth, whether
or not the person risks losing anything at the game.

Meaning of “betting” and associated expressions

 3.—(1) In this Act, “betting” means making or accepting a bet
on —

       (a) the outcome of a race, competition, sporting event or other
            event or process;

       (b) the likelihood of anything occurring or not occurring; or

       (c) whether anything is or is not true.

 (2) A transaction that relates to the outcome of a race, competition,
sporting event or other event or process may be a bet within the
meaning of subsection (1) despite the facts that —

       (a) the race, competition, event or process has already
            occurred or been completed; and

       (b) one party to the transaction knows the outcome.

 (3) A transaction that relates to the likelihood of anything occurring
or not occurring may be a bet within the meaning of subsection (1)
despite the facts that —

       (a) the thing has already occurred or failed to occur; and

       (b) one party to the transaction knows that the thing has
            already occurred or failed to occur.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
10  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (4) Without limiting subsections (1), (2) and (3), a bet includes —

       (a) a free bet, which is a bet made wholly or partly using an
            amount that is provided to the person making the bet by the
            authorised betting operator with whom the bet is made and
            is not immediately redeemable by the person for cash; and

       (b) a bet made using a totalisator.

 (5) An authorised betting operator is a person who —

       (a) is authorised, under a licence, permit or other authority
            granted under any written law, to conduct betting
            operations in or from a place in Singapore; or

       (b) is, under any written law, exempt from the licence, permit
            or authorisation requirements that would otherwise apply
            for conducting betting operations in or from a place in
            Singapore,

but excludes a holder of a casino licence granted under section 49 of
the Casino Control Act 2006 with regard to any betting operations
covered by the casino licence.

 (6) Subject to subsection (9), a person conducts betting operations
if the person, whether in person or through an agent, by remote
communication or otherwise —

       (a) receives bets;

       (b) pays, negotiates or settles bets; or

       (c) operates a betting exchange.

 (7) A reference in this Act to a bet made with, or received by, a
betting operator includes a reference to a bet made with the betting
operator —

       (a) through an agent;

       (b) wholly or partly by means of remote communication; or

       (c) partly inside and partly outside Singapore.

 (8) Also, a reference in this Act to a bet made with, or received by, a
betting operator includes, for a betting operator who operates a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           11

betting exchange, a reference to a bet made through the betting
operator using the betting exchange.

 (9) However, a person does not conduct betting operations, and is
not an agent of another person who conducts betting operations,
merely because the person —

       (a) provides, or operates facilities for network access; or

       (b) provides services relating to, or provides connections for,
            the transmission or routing of data by remote
            communication.

Meaning of “lottery” and associated expressions

 4.—(1) In this Act, “lottery” means an arrangement or a scheme,
competition or device for the distribution of prizes where —

       (a) entitlement to participation in the arrangement, scheme,
            competition or device depends on the payment of money,
            the purchase of a ticket or the giving of any thing of value
            by the participant; and

       (b) the distribution depends, at any stage of the arrangement,
            scheme, competition or device, on an element of chance
            (even if the arrangement, scheme, competition or device, in
            some other respects, involves a genuine or purported
            exercise of skill),

and includes lucky draws, raffles and sweepstakes.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a reference to paying
includes a reference to any of the following:

       (a) paying money;

       (b) transferring money’s worth;

       (c) paying for goods or services at a price or rate which reflects
            the opportunity to participate in an arrangement or a
            scheme, competition or device.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, it does not matter whether the
lottery is held, drawn, exercised or managed wholly in Singapore or
partly inside and partly outside Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
12  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (4) An authorised lottery promoter is a person who —

       (a) is authorised, under a licence, permit or other authority
            granted under any written law, to promote a lottery in or
            from a place in Singapore; or

       (b) is, under any written law, exempt from the licence, permit
            or authorisation requirements that would otherwise apply
            for promoting a lottery in or from a place in Singapore,

but excludes a holder of a casino licence granted under section 49 of
the Casino Control Act 2006 with regard to any lottery covered by the
casino licence.

 (5) Without limiting subsection (4), the following is to be taken to
promote a lottery, for the purposes of this Act:

       (a) the person conducts or organises the lottery, whether alone
            or with others;

       (b) each person who authorises the conduct or organisation of
            a lottery as an officer, a trustee or member of the governing
            body of an incorporated or unincorporated body;

       (c) a person or body that authorises the conduct or
            organisation of a lottery by a contractor or an employee
            or agent;

       (d) a person who assists in conducting or organising a lottery;

       (e) a person or body that solicits or receives any money,
            property or other benefit in the course of the conduct or
            organisation of a lottery (other than as a prize winner or
            participant in the lottery);

        (f) any other person or body prescribed for the purposes of this
            section by the Regulations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           13

                                    PART 2

                           GAMBLING DUTIES

                            Division 1 — Amount

Gambling duties are taxes

 5.—(1) For the purpose of ensuring that the public in Singapore
obtains reasonable net benefits from the lawful conduct of gambling
in Singapore, a tax called a gambling duty is charged in accordance
with the provisions of this Act, in respect of the following gambling
undertakings:

       (a) any betting that is received, paid, negotiated or settled in
            the course of betting operations conducted in or from a
            place in Singapore by an authorised betting operator and
            that is prescribed;

       (b) any lottery that is promoted in or from a place in Singapore
            by an authorised lottery promoter and that is prescribed;

       (c) any keeping, in the course of a relevant business, of one or
            more gaming machines in any non-casino premises and
            that is prescribed;

       (d) any provision by an authorised person, in the course of a
            relevant business in or from a place in Singapore, of a
            gaming service and that is prescribed,

and the prescribed gambling undertaking is for the purposes of this
Act called a taxable gambling undertaking.

 (2) This section is subject to any of the following:

       (a) a remission under section 12;

       (b) an exemption under section 44.

Amount of gambling duties

 6.—(1) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), gambling duties are
payable in respect of the revenue that —

       (a) is received or derived from the conduct, promotion or
            carrying on of a taxable gambling undertaking by or on
            behalf of a taxable person; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
14  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (b) is prescribed in Regulations.

 (2) The amount of gambling duties payable is the amount worked
out by applying the rate of gambling duty prescribed with respect to
the taxable gambling undertaking in question.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1) or (2), the Minister may
prescribe —

       (a) different rates of gambling duty for different —

               (i) classes of taxable gambling undertakings;

              (ii) types of bets (including amounts staked or otherwise
                   provided for making a bet) or punters;

             (iii) classes of betting operations or authorised betting
                   operators;

             (iv) classes of lotteries or participants of a lottery;

              (v) classes of authorised lottery promoters;

             (vi) types of gaming machines or games of chance;

            (vii) types or numbers of players of games of chance or
                   periods of play; or

            (viii) classes of non-casino premises where gaming
                   machines are kept;

       (b) different revenues by reference to any or a combination of
            any of the following:

               (i) the amount staked or otherwise provided for making
                   a bet;

              (ii) the amount of a ticket, or thing of value paid or given,
                   in order to participate (whether directly or indirectly)
                   in a lottery or to use a gaming machine;

             (iii) the total amount of revenue from any betting
                   operation conducted or lottery promoted;

             (iv) the revenue or profit from conducting a betting
                   operation, promoting a lottery or keeping gaming
                   machines;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           15

              (v) any money or money’s worth paid or payable or
                   prizes to be allocated or awarded; and

       (c) the method of valuation of non-cash consideration
            comprising a bet or winnings or prizes consisting of
            other than cash.

 (4) In working out the gambling duty payable, any amount of goods
and services tax charged on the receipt, negotiation or settlement of
any bet, the supply of any lottery, the provision or operation of any
gaming machine or the provision of a gaming service (as the case may
be) must be disregarded.

 (5) No gambling duty is payable on revenue from any gaming
machine the use or keeping of which is in contravention of any
written law.

                           Division 2 — Liability

Who is liable to pay gambling duty

 7.—(1) Any gambling duty in respect of any betting received, paid,
negotiated or settled in the course of betting operations conducted by
an authorised betting operator is payable by the authorised betting
operator.

 (2) Any gambling duty in respect of any lottery promoted by an
authorised lottery promoter is payable by the authorised lottery
promoter.

 (3) Any gambling duty in respect of the keeping of any gaming
machine in any non-casino premises is payable by the person who —

       (a) is authorised, under a licence, permit or other authority
            granted under any written law, to keep one or more gaming
            machines in connection with a business in Singapore at
            those non-casino premises; or

       (b) is, under any written law, exempt from the licence, permit
            or authorisation requirements that would otherwise apply
            to keeping one or more gaming machines in connection
            with a relevant business at those non-casino premises,

regardless that the person may not be the proprietor of those premises.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
16  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (4) Any gambling duty in respect of any provision by an authorised
person, in the course of a relevant business in or from a place in
Singapore, of a gaming service is payable by the authorised person.

 (5) Where 2 or more persons are, in accordance with subsection (1),
(2), (3) or (4), liable to pay any gambling duty, they are each jointly
and severally liable to pay the gambling duty payable.

 (6) Where a person becomes liable under this Act to pay any
gambling duty, the person’s liability continues until the gambling
duty which is due and payable under the Act is and remains unpaid,
despite the person —

       (a) ceasing to be —

               (i) an authorised betting operator;

              (ii) an authorised lottery promoter;

             (iii) a person mentioned in subsection (3); or

             (iv) an authorised person; or

       (b) ceasing to keep any, or ceasing to lawfully keep any,
            gaming machines in any non-casino premises.

 (7) This section is subject to any of the following:

       (a) a remission under section 12;

       (b) an appointment of an agent under section 20;

       (c) an exemption under section 44.

 (8) This section also applies to any penalty tax payable.

 (9) In this section, “proprietor”, for any premises, means a person
who (jointly or otherwise) has the charge, management or control of
the premises, either on the person’s own account or as agent of
another person, or the exclusive use temporarily or otherwise of those
premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           17

When gambling duty is payable

 8.—(1) Any gambling duty in respect of —

       (a) any betting received, paid, negotiated or settled in the
            course of betting operations conducted by an authorised
            betting operator; or

       (b) any lottery promoted by an authorised lottery promoter,

is due and payable —

       (c) on the return date for lodging by the authorised betting
            operator or authorised lottery promoter (as the case may
            be) of a return specifying the taxable gaming revenue from
            the taxable gambling undertaking in paragraph (a) or (b) on
            which the gambling duty is payable, as required under
            section 22 or 23; or

       (d) at the end of any period of extension allowed under
            subsection (4) for payment of that gambling duty.

 (2) Any gambling duty in respect of —

       (a) any keeping of one or more gaming machines in any
            non-casino premises for a period; or

       (b) any provision in or from a place in Singapore of a gaming
            service for a period,

is due and payable —

       (c) on the return date for lodging by the taxable person of a
            return for that period as required under section 22 or 23; or

       (d) at the end of any period of extension allowed under
            subsection (4) for payment of that gambling duty.

 (3) Where a liability notice is given upon an assessment or a
reassessment under section 9(4), and any additional gambling duty is
payable by a taxable person, the additional gambling duty is due and
payable to the Commissioner —

       (a) at the end of 15 days after the liability notice or valid
            demand (as the case may be) is given to the taxable person

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
18  NO. 1 OF 2022

            by the Commissioner in respect of that additional gambling
            duty; or

       (b) at the end of any period of extension allowed under
            subsection (4) for payment of that additional gambling
            duty.

 (4) The Commissioner may, in such cases as the Commissioner
thinks fit, extend the time for payment of any gambling duty beyond
the time referred to in subsection (1)(c), (2)(c) or (3)(a).

 (5) This section is subject to the making of a remission under
section 12.

Power to assess or reassess gambling duty due

 9.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), where —

       (a) a taxable person has failed —

               (i) to lodge any return required under section 22 or 23
                   by the return date; or

              (ii) to keep any accounts, statements or records required
                   by section 24, or to afford facilities necessary to
                   verify such accounts, statements or records; or

       (b) it appears to the Commissioner that any accounts,
            statements or records required by section 24 are
            misleading, incomplete or incorrect,

the Commissioner may to the best of his or her judgment assess the
complete and accurate amount of gambling duty due from that
taxable person during the period in question.

 (2) Subject to subsection (5), the Commissioner may —

       (a) on his or her own initiative, make an assessment of
            gambling duty payable by a taxable person for any period
            to ensure that a complete and accurate assessment is made;

       (b) upon receiving a notice of objection made under
            section 10(1), revise any assessment under paragraph (a)
            or subsection (1) and make a reassessment of gambling

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           19

            duty payable by a taxable person to ensure that a complete
            and accurate assessment is made; or

       (c) upon a referral by the Minister under section 10(5)(b) after
            an appeal, make a reassessment of gambling duty payable
            by a taxable person.

 (3) In making any assessment or reassessment under subsection (1)
or (2) of a taxable person’s liability to pay any gambling duty, the
Commissioner may treat the taxable person as if the taxable person
had not been required under section 22 to lodge any return during all
or part of the period in question.

 (4) At the end of any assessment or reassessment under
subsection (1) or (2), the Commissioner must give the taxable
person concerned a liability notice stating —

       (a) the amount of the additional gambling duty assessed or
            reassessed as payable by the taxable person; or

       (b) the amount of gambling duty assessed or reassessed to be
            refunded to the taxable person because the amount paid by
            the taxable person was greater than the amount for which
            that person is liable under this Act.

 (5) An assessment or a reassessment under subsection (1) or (2) of
an amount of gambling duty due for any period must not be made
more than 5 years after the end of that period.

 (6) However, subsection (5) does not apply where, in the opinion of
the Commissioner, any form of fraud or wilful default has been
committed by or on behalf of any person in connection with or in
relation to any gambling duty, and the Commissioner may in that
case, for the purpose of making good any loss of gambling duty
attributable to fraud or wilful default, assess or reassess that person at
any time.

Reassessment of liability and appeal

 10.—(1) Where a taxable person given a liability notice under
section 9(4) containing an assessment or a reassessment made under
section 9(1) or (2)(a) is aggrieved by the liability notice, the taxable
person (called an objector) may apply to the Commissioner, by notice

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
20  NO. 1 OF 2022

of objection in writing, to review and revise the assessment or
reassessment, as the case may be.

 (2) A notice of objection made under subsection (1) must —

       (a) state precisely the grounds of objections to the assessment
            or reassessment made under section 9(1) or (2)(a); and

       (b) be made no later than 14 days after the liability notice
            containing that assessment or reassessment was given by
            the Commissioner.

 (3) Upon receiving a notice of objection made under subsection (1),
the Commissioner must examine the notice of objection and may —

       (a) confirm the liability notice in question and the assessment
            or reassessment (as the case may be) objected to;

       (b) revise the assessment or reassessment (as the case may be)
            and give the objector another liability notice in
            replacement; or

       (c) cancel the liability notice in question.

 (4) An objector who is aggrieved by the Commissioner’s decision
under subsection (3) may, within 30 days after being notified of that
decision, appeal against the decision to the Minister.

 (5) After considering an appeal under subsection (4), the Minister
may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Commissioner’s decision
            under subsection (3); or

       (b) allow the appeal and refer the matter back to the
            Commissioner to reconsider the case.

 (6) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (7) Every objector must be notified of the Minister’s decision under
subsection (5).

 (8) An appeal against the Commissioner’s decision under
subsection (3) does not affect the operation of the liability notice
concerned or prevent the taking of action to implement the
Commissioner’s decision concerned, and unless otherwise directed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           21

by the Minister under this section, the Commissioner’s decision must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

Payment of gambling duty short levied, etc.

 11.—(1) Where any amount of gambling duty under this Act has
been short levied or erroneously refunded for any reason or owing to
any cause without involving any fraud or wilful default, the person
who should have paid the amount short levied or to whom the refund
has erroneously been made must pay the deficiency or repay the
amount erroneously refunded, to the Commissioner on a valid
demand being made and given to that person, within 15 days after
receiving that valid demand.

 (2) A demand is valid under subsection (1) if it satisfies the
following:

       (a) it is in writing;

       (b) it is made by or on behalf of the Commissioner;

       (c) it is made within 5 years after the date of payment of the
            gambling duty stated in the demand as having been short
            levied or erroneously refunded;

       (d) it specifies —

               (i) the amount of the short levy or erroneous refund that
                   the Commissioner requires to be paid or repaid; or

              (ii) the circumstances in relation to which the
                   Commissioner has reason to believe the short levy
                   or erroneous refund arose.

 (3) Subsection (2)(c) does not apply if the short levy or erroneous
refund was the result of fraud or evasion on the part of the person
liable to pay the amount short levied, or who claimed for or to be
entitled to the refund erroneously made, as the case may be.

 (4) Where the short levy or erroneous refund does not exceed $200
or such other lower amount as may be prescribed in any one case, the
Commissioner may waive the recovery of the short levy or erroneous
refund.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
22  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section does not limit any other remedy for
the recovery of the amount of the short levy or erroneous refund.

Remission

 12.—(1) Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Minister that
payment of any gambling duty payable or to become payable by a
particular taxable person is not compatible with the purposes of this
Act having regard to the peculiar facts of the case, the Minister may
remit the payment of the gambling duty, either wholly or in part.

 (2) The Minister may delegate the exercise of all or any of his or her
powers under subsection (1) to the Commissioner or a public officer,
and any reference in subsection (1) to the Minister includes a
reference to the Commissioner or that public officer, as the case may
be.

 (3) Any delegation under subsection (2) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Minister may specify.

 (4) This section also applies to any penalty tax payable under this
Act.

                                    PART 3

                      DEFAULT AND RECOVERY

                          Division 1 — Penalty tax

Penalty tax in case of default

 13. If any gambling duty is not paid before the end of the time
prescribed by section 8 or 11, the taxable person concerned is liable to
pay to the Commissioner a penalty tax on the amount of gambling
duty unpaid, calculated in accordance with section 14.

Amount of penalty tax

 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the amount of penalty tax
payable in relation to any gambling duty not paid after the time
prescribed by section 8 or 11 for payment of the gambling duty ends,
is —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           23

       (a) 5% of the amount of the gambling duty not paid; and

       (b) if the gambling duty or any part of it remains unpaid
            one month after the time prescribed by section 8 or 11 for
            payment of the gambling duty —

               (i) a further 5% of the amount of the gambling duty not
                   paid; and

              (ii) a further 5% of the amount of the gambling duty or
                   any part of it not paid for every complete month
                   thereafter that the gambling duty or any part of it
                   remains unpaid.

 (2) However, the total additional penalty tax must not exceed 50%
of the amount of gambling duty outstanding.

Recovery of penalty tax

 15. Any penalty tax imposed under this Division is recoverable as if
the penalty tax were gambling duty due and payable under this Act.

                           Division 2 — Recovery

Recovery of gambling duty

 16. Any gambling duty is deemed, when it becomes due and
payable at the expiry of the time so prescribed or allowed under
section 8 or 11, to be a debt due to the Government, and must be
collected and received by the Commissioner in accordance with this
Act.

Action to recover may be taken at any time

 17.—(1) Any action or remedy for recovery of gambling duty and
any penalty tax may be taken at any time, any written law to the
contrary notwithstanding.

 (2) Any gambling duty that is due and payable but unpaid may be
sued for in the same way as for any tax, interest and any penalty
imposed under the Income Tax Act 1947, and section 89(1), (2), (3)
and (4) of the Income Tax Act 1947 applies with the necessary
modifications, including as follows:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
24  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (a) a reference in those provisions to the Comptroller is to the
            Commissioner;

       (b) a reference in those provisions to any tax due under the
            Income Tax Act 1947 is to any gambling duty that is due
            and payable under this Act.

Priority of case in insolvency

 18.—(1) The amount of any gambling duty or penalty tax —

       (a) due from a bankrupt at the date of the bankruptcy order, or
            from the bankrupt so dying at the date of his or her death;
            and

       (b) having become due within 12 months before that date of
            the bankruptcy order or his or her death,

is, by this subsection, included among the debts which, under
section 352 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018, are to be paid in priority to all other debts in the
distribution of property of the bankrupt or individual dying insolvent.

 (2) The amount of any gambling duty or penalty tax —

       (a) due from a company at the date of the winding up order;
            and

       (b) having become due within 12 months before the date of
            commencement of the winding up,

is, by this subsection, included among the taxes which, under
section 203 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018, are to be paid in priority to all other unsecured debts in
a winding up of the company.

Overpayment

 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where a taxable person is liable
to pay any gambling duty and the amount paid by the taxable person
proves greater than the amount for which that person is liable under
this Act, the taxable person is entitled to have the amount overpaid
refunded and the Commissioner must, as soon as practicable, repay
the overpayment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           25

 (2) However, a refund under this section must be claimed in writing
and made to the Commissioner within 5 years starting the date of the
overpayment.

Power to appoint agent for recovery of gambling duty

 20.—(1) If the Commissioner thinks it is necessary, the
Commissioner may, by written notice, declare any person to be the
agent of a taxable person in respect of any taxable gambling
undertaking.

 (2) The person declared to be the agent under subsection (1) of a
taxable person is to be treated as the agent of the taxable person for
the purposes of this Act and may be required to pay any gambling
duty or penalty tax payable by the taxable person, from any moneys
which —

       (a) at the date the person receives the notice in subsection (1);
            or

       (b) at any time during the period of 90 days after the person
            receives the notice in subsection (1),

may be held by the person for, or due by the person to, that taxable
person.

 (3) In default of payment under subsection (2), the gambling duty
or penalty tax outstanding is to be recoverable from the person
declared to be the agent under subsection (1).

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the Commissioner may require
any person to give the Commissioner any information as to any
moneys, funds or other assets which may be held by the person for, or
of any moneys due by the person to, any other person.

 (5) Where any person declared under subsection (1) by the
Commissioner to be the agent of a taxable person is aggrieved by
the declaration, the person (called in this section the objector) may
object to the declaration by giving a written objection to the
Commissioner within —

       (a) 14 days after receiving the notice in subsection (1)
            containing the declaration; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
26  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (b) such longer time as the Commissioner may allow in any
            particular case.

 (6) The Commissioner must examine every written objection under
subsection (5) and may cancel, vary or confirm the declaration
objected to.

 (7) Where the objector is aggrieved by the Commissioner’s
decision upon the objector’s written objection, the objector —

       (a) may appeal against that decision to the Minister whose
            decision is final; and

       (b) if appealing, must retain an amount of the moneys
            mentioned in subsection (2) to pay over any tax due,
            until such time as the Minister informs the objector of the
            Minister’s decision on the appeal.

 (8) Where an agent of a taxable person makes any payment of
moneys to the Commissioner under this section —

       (a) the agent is deemed to have been acting under the authority
            of the taxable person by whom the duty is payable (called
            in this section the defaulting taxpayer);

       (b) the agent is indemnified in respect of the payment to the
            Commissioner;

       (c) the amount of gambling duty or penalty tax due from the
            defaulting taxpayer is reduced by the amount paid by the
            agent to the Commissioner; and

       (d) the amount of the reduction is, to the extent of that amount,
            deemed to have been paid to the defaulting taxpayer in
            accordance with any law, contract or scheme governing the
            payment of moneys held by the agent for or due from the
            agent to the defaulting taxpayer.

 (9) Where —

       (a) an amount of gambling duty or penalty tax is due from any
            person under this Act otherwise than as an agent under this
            section;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           27

       (b) except for this subsection, an amount is or would, at any
            time during the period of 90 days after the date of the
            receipt of the notice in paragraph (c), be payable by the
            Government to the defaulting taxpayer by or under any
            written law, contract or scheme; and

       (c) before payment of the amount referred to in paragraph (b)
            is made to the defaulting taxpayer, the Commissioner gives
            notice to any public officer (including an employee
            appointed under section 9 of the Inland Revenue
            Authority of Singapore Act 1992) by whom the payment
            is to be made that the tax is due from the defaulting
            taxpayer,

then the public officer must and is entitled to, despite any other
written law, contract or scheme, reduce the amount mentioned in
paragraph (b) by the amount of the whole or any part of the gambling
duty or penalty tax mentioned in paragraph (a), and if the public
officer makes such a reduction —

       (d) the amount of the gambling duty or penalty tax mentioned
            in paragraph (a) is reduced by the amount of the reduction;
            and

       (e) the amount of the reduction is, to the extent of such
            amount, deemed to have been paid to the defaulting
            taxpayer in accordance with any law, contract or scheme
            governing the payment of moneys mentioned in
            paragraph (b) to the defaulting taxpayer.

                                    PART 4

                 RETURNS, RECORD KEEPING AND
                      PROVIDING INFORMATION

Application and interpretation of this Part

 21.—(1) This Part applies to an authorised betting operator,
authorised lottery promoter, a person mentioned in section 7(3) or
an authorised person who, for all or part of a month, is a taxable
person liable for any gambling duty under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
28  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (2) In this Part —

      “document” includes —

              (a) any return, account, statement or record required by
                   section 22, 23 or 24 to be lodged, kept or retained;
                   and

              (b) any computer program or computer software;

      “enforcement purpose” means any of the following:

              (a) to determine compliance with this Act and the
                   Regulations, including whether an offence under
                   this Act or the Regulations has been committed;

              (b) to determine whether any document or information
                   provided to the Commissioner or an enforcement
                   official or the IRAS under a provision of this Act or
                   the Regulations is correct.

 (3) Where —

       (a) by or under any provision of this Part or any Regulations
            for the purposes of this Part, an act or a thing is required or
            directed to be done within a particular period or before a
            particular time;

       (b) failure to do the act or thing within the period or before the
            time referred to in paragraph (a) constitutes an offence; and

       (c) that act or thing is not done within the period or before the
            time referred to in paragraph (a),

the obligation to do that act or thing continues, even though that
period has expired or that time has passed, until that act or thing is
done.

 (4) The Commissioner may, upon an application by or on behalf of
a person, grant an extension of time within which the person is
required by this Part or any Regulations made for the purposes of this
Part —

       (a) to lodge a return, an account or a statement;

       (b) to provide any other record or other document; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           29

       (c) to do or to not to do any thing,

whether for the same or less than the period of extension applied for,
upon being satisfied that there are good reasons to do so.

Returns

 22.—(1) A taxable person must, in respect of —

       (a) every keeping by the taxable person of gaming machines in
            any non-casino premises during the whole or part of any
            period prescribed (called in this Part a gaming machine
            accounting period); or

       (b) every other taxable gambling undertaking conducted,
            promoted or carried on by the taxable person,
            particularly or during the whole or part of any period
            prescribed (called in this Part a tax accounting period),

lodge with the Commissioner within the prescribed period after the
end of the gaming machine accounting period or tax accounting
period (as the case may be) or not later than at the end of any period of
extension allowed under section 21(4) —

       (c) a return containing such entries and a declaration as are
            prescribed, in and in accordance with the Regulations,
            about the taxable gaming revenue from the taxable
            gambling undertaking and the gambling duties payable
            on it; and

       (d) the accounts and statements required by section 24 duly
            audited by a public accountant and which the
            Commissioner considers necessary for the assessment of
            gambling duty payable.

 (2) In addition, a taxable person must, within 6 months after the
close of each financial year of the taxable person, or not later than at
the end of any period of extension allowed under section 21(4),
prepare and submit to the Commissioner accounts and annual
financial statements required by section 24 (duly audited by a
public accountant) and which the Commissioner considers necessary
for the assessment of gambling duty payable, relating to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
30  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (a) the taxable gaming revenue from whichever of the
            following that is applicable to the taxable person:

               (i) every keeping of gaming machines in non-casino
                   premises during the whole or part of the financial
                   year by the taxable person;

              (ii) every other taxable gambling undertaking
                   conducted, promoted or carried on by the taxable
                   person during the whole or part of the financial year;
                   and

       (b) all gambling duties payable on the taxable gaming revenue.

Additional returns

 23.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice given to a
taxable person, require the taxable person to lodge, within the period
stated in the notice, a return or a further or fuller return accompanied
by such accounts and statements as the Commissioner may specify in
that notice.

 (2) The taxable person must, within the period stated in the notice
given under subsection (1), lodge the return or the further or fuller
return and such accounts and statements as are required under the
notice.

Accounts, statements and records in respect of returns

 24.—(1) A taxable person must do all of the following:

       (a) keep such accounts and statements as are prescribed in and
            in accordance with the Regulations, about —

               (i) the taxable gambling undertaking conducted,
                   promoted or carried on by the taxable person
                   during a gaming machine accounting period or tax
                   accounting period, as the case may be; and

              (ii) the taxable gaming revenue from the undertaking;

       (b) retain the accounts and statements prepared in accordance
            with paragraph (a) for 5 years after the end of the gaming

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           31

            machine accounting period or tax accounting period to
            which they relate;

       (c) keep and retain records, where the records are relevant to
            the preparation or ensuring the accuracy of the accounts
            and statements and the returns of the taxable person
            referred to in paragraph (a) and section 22, for a prescribed
            retention period and in the prescribed manner.

 (2) A taxable person must not prepare any accounts or statements
required by subsection (1) in such a way that they do not correctly
record and explain the matters or things to which they relate.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 25.—(1) The Commissioner or an enforcement official may enter at
any reasonable time any premises which the Commissioner or
enforcement official reasonably believes to be or may be —

       (a) owned or occupied by a taxable person in connection with
            a taxable gambling undertaking conducted, promoted or
            carried on by the taxable person; or

       (b) where a taxable gambling undertaking is being or has been
            conducted, promoted or carried on,

and do all or any of the activities mentioned in subsection (2) for an
enforcement purpose.

 (2) The Commissioner or an enforcement official may, after
entering any premises mentioned in subsection (1), do all or any of
the following:

       (a) examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the premises;

       (b) make a still or moving image or recording of any thing in
            or on the premises;

       (c) inspect any document on the premises and take extracts
            from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (d) take into or onto the premises such equipment and
            materials as the Commissioner or enforcement official

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
32  NO. 1 OF 2022

            requires for the purpose of exercising his or her powers in
            relation to the premises;

       (e) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

        (f) search or cause to be searched any individual or any thing
            found in or on the premises for, and seize, any document or
            thing which the Commissioner or enforcement official
            believes on reasonable grounds —

               (i) is evidential material relevant to, or is intended to be
                   used for the purpose of committing, an offence under
                   this Act or the Regulations; and

              (ii) it is necessary to secure the document or thing in
                   order to prevent it from being concealed, lost or
                   destroyed;

       (g) require any individual found in the premises to answer any
            question (to the best of that individual’s knowledge,
            information and belief), and to provide any document or
            information, about any taxable gambling undertaking,
            taxable gaming revenue or any other matter relevant to an
            enforcement purpose.

 (3) The power under subsection (2)(e) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           33

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

            and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            the premises.

 (4) The power under subsection (2)(f) to seize any thing under
warrant includes the power to seize any thing which is similarly so
found that is not evidential material of the kind specified in the
warrant if —

       (a) in the course of searching for the kind of evidential
            material specified in the warrant, the police officer or
            enforcement official finds the thing; and

       (b) the thing is evidential material for another offence under
            this Act or the Regulations.

 (5) Section 65K of the Income Tax Act 1947 applies, with the
necessary modifications, to any document or thing provided or seized
under this section as if the document or thing were provided or seized
under section 65A or 65B of that Act.

 (6) The Commissioner or an enforcement official may be assisted
by other individuals in exercising enforcement powers under this
section or section 26 if that assistance is necessary and reasonable.

Power to obtain information

 26.—(1) The Commissioner or an enforcement official may by
written notice require any person to provide, within a reasonable
period specified in the notice, and in such form and manner as may be
specified in the notice, any document or information which —

       (a) relates to any taxable gambling undertaking, taxable
            gaming revenue or any other matter which the
            Commissioner or enforcement official considers
            necessary for an enforcement purpose; and

       (b) is —

               (i) within the knowledge of that person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of that person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
34  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Commissioner or an
enforcement official may require —

       (a) any individual who is or was an officer, employee or agent
            of a taxable person; or

       (b) any other individual in Singapore whom the Commissioner
            or enforcement official (as the case may be) has reason to
            believe to be acquainted with any facts or circumstances
            relevant to an enforcement purpose,

to attend before the Commissioner or enforcement official to answer
any question (to the best of that individual’s knowledge, information
and belief) and to provide any document or information.

 (3) The power under subsection (1) or (2) or section 25(2)(g) to
require a person or an individual to provide any document or
information includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was an
            officer or agent or a representative of the person, to provide
            an explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person or individual to state, to the best of the
            knowledge and belief of that person or individual (as the
            case may be), where it is;

       (c) if the document or information is recorded otherwise than
            in legible form, to require the document or information to
            be made available to the Commissioner or an enforcement
            official in legible form; and

       (d) if the document or information is stored in a computer or
            other electronic device, and the person or individual is
            reasonably suspected to have knowledge of or access to
            any username, password or other authentication
            information required to gain access to the document or
            information, to require the person or individual to provide
            assistance (not limited to providing any username,
            password or other authentication information) to gain
            access to the computer or electronic device and the
            document or information therein.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           35

 (4) The power under subsection (2) or section 25(2)(g) to require an
individual to answer a question includes the power to require the
individual to answer the question immediately or at such place and
time specified in writing.

 (5) Any statement made by any individual in answer to a question
under subsection (4) must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the individual;

       (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
            interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
            and

       (d) after correction (if necessary) be signed by that individual.

 (6) The IRAS or Commissioner or an enforcement official is
entitled without payment to keep any document or information, or
any copy or extract thereof, provided to the Commissioner or an
enforcement official under subsection (1).

Late returns and non-compliant record keeping, etc.

 27.—(1) A taxable person —

       (a) who is required to lodge a return and any accounts or
            statements with the Commissioner under section 22 or 23;
            and

       (b) who intentionally or negligently fails to lodge the return,
            accounts or statements with the Commissioner within the
            time delimited by section 22 or under section 23 or as
            extended under section 21(4),

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A taxable person —

       (a) who is subject to any requirement under section 24 to keep
            or retain any accounts, statements or records; and

       (b) who intentionally or negligently contravenes the
            requirement to keep or retain the accounts, statements or
            records,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
36  NO. 1 OF 2022

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Misleading, etc., returns by taxable persons

 28.—(1) A taxable person —

       (a) who is required to lodge a return with the Commissioner
            under section 22 or 23; and

       (b) who —

               (i) makes any entry in the return which the taxable
                   person knows to be false in a material particular, or
                   recklessly makes such a statement; or

              (ii) intentionally or negligently omits any matter or thing
                   in the return without which the return is misleading
                   in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A taxable person —

       (a) who is subject to any requirement under section 24 to keep
            or retain any accounts, statements or records; and

       (b) who, when keeping or retaining any of the accounts,
            statements or records —

               (i) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
                   information in the accounts, statements or records
                   which the person is so required to keep or retain;

              (ii) makes any entry in any of the accounts, statements or
                   records which the taxable person knows to be false in
                   a material particular, or recklessly makes such an
                   entry; or

             (iii) intentionally or negligently omits any matter or thing
                   in any of the accounts, statements or records without
                   which the account, statement or record is misleading
                   in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           37

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a special fine referred to in
subsection (4), and —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
            or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the special fine is an amount
that is equal to 2 times the amount of the gambling duty which has
been underpaid in consequence of the offence under subsection (1) or
(2), or which would have been so underpaid if the offence had not
been detected.

Refusing to give or giving false information

 29.—(1) If —

       (a) a person provides a document or information (whether
            orally or in writing) to the Commissioner or an
            enforcement official which the person has been required
            under section 26(1) or (2) to provide;

       (b) the document or information is false or misleading in a
            material particular, or the document or information omits
            any matter or thing without which the document or
            information (as the case may be) is misleading in a
            material particular; and

       (c) the person knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is
            reckless as to whether, the document or information is false
            or misleading in a material particular,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (d) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
38  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (e) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person does not possess the document or information
            required; and

       (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
            person to obtain the document or information required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (3) Subject to subsection (1), a person who intentionally alters,
suppresses or destroys any document or information which the person
has been required under section 26(1) or (2) to provide shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000.

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person under section 26(1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000.

Evasion

 30.—(1) Any person who wilfully with intent to evade or to assist
any other person to evade payment of any gambling duty or penalty
tax —

       (a) makes any false statement, declaration or entry in any
            return required to be made under this Act or the
            Regulations;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           39

       (b) gives any false answer, whether verbally or in writing, to
            any question or request for information asked or made in
            accordance with this Act or the Regulations; or

       (c) makes use of any fraud, art or contrivance or authorises the
            use of any such fraud, art or contrivance,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
special fine referred to in subsection (2), and —

       (d) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $12,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            5 years or to both; or

       (e) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $25,000.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the special fine is an amount
that is equal to 4 times the amount of the gambling duty which has
been underpaid in consequence of the offence under subsection (1), or
which would have been so underpaid if the offence had not been
detected.

 (3) Whenever in any proceedings under this section it is proved that
any false statement or entry is made in any return furnished under this
Act or the Regulations by or on behalf of any person or any book of
accounts or other records maintained by or on behalf of any person,
that person is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have made
that false statement or entry with intent to evade the gambling duty.

                                    PART 5
                            ADMINISTRATION
Administration of Act
 31. It is the function of the IRAS to administer this Act and the
Regulations.

Commissioner of Gambling Duties, etc.
 32.—(1) The Minister must appoint from among officers of the

IRAS the Commissioner of Gambling Duties, who is responsible for

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
40  NO. 1 OF 2022

the administration of this Act and the Regulations, subject to the
general or special directions of the IRAS.

 (2) In addition, the Minister may appoint from among officers of
the IRAS any number of Deputy Commissioners of Gambling Duties
and Assistant Commissioners of Gambling Duties that the Minister
thinks fit to assist the Commissioner of Gambling Duties.

 (3) A Deputy Commissioner of Gambling Duties and an Assistant
Commissioner of Gambling Duties have all the powers and may
perform all the duties of the Commissioner of Gambling Duties.

 (4) Any reference in this Act or the Regulations to the
Commissioner of Gambling Duties includes a reference to a
Deputy Commissioner of Gambling Duties or an Assistant
Commissioner of Gambling Duties, unless the context otherwise
requires.

 (5) An appointment made by the Minister under this section may be
revoked by the Minister at any time.

Enforcement officials

 33.—(1) The IRAS may, in relation to any provision of this Act or
the Regulations, appoint —

       (a) any of its employees;

       (b) any public officer; or

       (c) any employee of a body established by or under any public
            Act to perform a public function, but not a Town Council
            established under section 4 of the Town Councils
            Act 1988,

to be an enforcement official for the purposes of that provision, either
generally or for any particular case.

 (2) The Commissioner may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Commissioner by any
provision of this Act or the Regulations, to any enforcement official,
subject to any conditions or limitations that the IRAS may specify;
and any reference in that provision of this Act or the Regulations to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           41

the Commissioner includes a reference to such an enforcement
official.

 (3) However, nothing in subsection (2) authorises delegating the
power of delegation conferred by that subsection.

Offences for obstruction, etc.

 34. A person who knowingly obstructs or prevents, or attempts to
obstruct or prevent the Commissioner or an enforcement official in
the discharge of his or her powers or duties under this Act or the
Regulations shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000.

Protection from personal liability

 35. No liability shall lie personally against the Commissioner or
enforcement official or any other person acting under the direction of
the Commissioner or an enforcement official for doing, or omitting to
do any act, in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act or the Regulations; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act or the Regulations,

if the act is done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in
good faith.

Service of documents

 36.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act or the
Regulations to be given to or served on a person may be given or
served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act or the Regulations
to be given to or served on an individual may be given or served —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
42  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act or the Regulations
to be given to or served on a partnership (other than a limited liability
partnership) may be given or served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act or the Regulations
to be given to or served on a body corporate (including a limited
liability partnership) or an unincorporated association may be given
or served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           43

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act or the Regulations to be given to or served on an
individual, a partnership, a body corporate or an unincorporated
association may be given or served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (b) by any other method authorised by this Act or the
            Regulations for the service of documents of that kind if
            the addressee consents (expressly or impliedly) to service
            of a document of that kind in that way.

 (6) The giving or serving of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; and

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered).

 (7) However, the giving or serving of any document under this Act
or the Regulations on a person by email or by an electronic notice at

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
44  NO. 1 OF 2022

the person’s chosen means of notification, may be effected only with
the person’s prior consent (express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (9) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee to or on whom is or
         is to be given or served a document permitted or required by
         this Act or the Regulations, means an electronic means the
         addressee agrees with the person giving or serving the
         document as the means by which the addressee may access
         that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee to or on whom
         is or is to be given or served a document permitted or required
         by this Act or the Regulations, means an electronic means
         that the addressee nominates to the person giving or serving
         the document as the means by which the addressee may be
         notified that such a document has been given to or served on
         the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act or the Regulations to be given;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act or the Regulations;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           45

Composition of offences

 37.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act or the Regulations that is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Offences by corporations

 38.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or the
Regulations, it is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation
in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act or the
Regulations, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
46  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act or the Regulations,
and applies whether or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
         includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
         following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

              (a) action towards —

                     (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                          the provision creating the offence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           47

                     (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                          professional assessments of its compliance
                          with the provision;

              (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                   employees, agents and contractors are provided
                   with information, training, instruction and
                   supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                   comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                   as the provision is relevant to them;

              (c) action towards ensuring that —

                     (i) the equipment and other resources; and

                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

                   relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non-compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 39.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or the
Regulations, it is necessary to prove the state of mind of an
unincorporated association or a partnership in relation to a particular
conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
48  NO. 1 OF 2022

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act or the Regulations, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           49

it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act or the Regulations, and applies whether or not the
unincorporated association or partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section, “reasonable steps” and “state of mind” have the
meanings given by section 38.

Jurisdiction of courts

 40. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
or the Regulations and has power to impose the full punishment for
any such offence.

Protection of informers

 41.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3), no witness in any
civil or criminal proceedings commenced on or after the date of
commencement of this section is obliged or permitted —

       (a) to disclose the identity of an informer who has given any
            information (whether the information is given before, on or
            after that date) with respect to an offence under this Act; or

       (b) to answer any question if the answer to the question would
            lead, or would tend to lead, to the discovery of the identity
            of the informer.

 (2) If any document which is in evidence or liable to inspection in
any civil or criminal proceedings contains any entry in which any
informer is named or described or which may lead to the discovery of
the informer’s identity, the court must cause the entry to be concealed

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
50  NO. 1 OF 2022

from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be necessary to
protect the informer from discovery.

 (3) If —

       (a) in any proceedings for an offence under any written law,
            the court, after full enquiry into the case, believes that the
            informer wilfully made a material statement which the
            informer knew or believed to be false or did not believe to
            be true; or

       (b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
            justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the
            proceedings without the discovery of the informer,

the court may permit enquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Consolidated Fund

 42. All gambling duties and penalty taxes collected and recovered
by the Commissioner and the IRAS under this Act must be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.

Confidentiality

 43.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2), section 6 of the
Income Tax Act 1947 applies to every individual having any official
duty or being employed in the administration of this Act in relation to
all returns, accounts, statements, records, information, assessment
and other documents relating to the gaming revenue or items of the
gaming revenue of any taxable person which are required to be
lodged or provided to the Commissioner or an enforcement official in
accordance with this Act with the necessary modifications as that
section applies to any documents, information, returns, assessment
lists or copies of such lists relating to the income or items of income
of any person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           51

 (2) Despite section 6(12) of the Income Tax Act 1947, the
Commissioner or an enforcement official may —

       (a) provide to any officer of the Gambling Regulatory
            Authority of Singapore (or GRAS); and

       (b) upon the request of the GRAS, permit any officer of the
            GRAS to have access (including taking copies of) to,

any information obtained by the Commissioner or enforcement
official in the performance of the Commissioner’s or enforcement
official’s duties under this Act —

       (c) where the information is required by the officer of the
            GRAS in the performance of the officer’s duties in
            administering or facilitating the administration of any
            written law that is a function of the GRAS; and

       (d) to the extent that the Commissioner is satisfied that the
            information or access is necessary for the performance of
            those duties of that officer.

 (3) In this section —

      “Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore” or “GRAS”
         means the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore,
         which is the Casino Regulatory Authority of Singapore
         continued and renamed under section 3 of the Gambling
         Regulatory Authority of Singapore Act 2022;

      “officer of the Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore”
         means —

              (a) an employee of the GRAS; or

              (b) a public officer performing duties in the GRAS under
                   a secondment arrangement making available
                   temporarily to the GRAS the services of public
                   officers.

                                                                               [Act 14 of 2022 wef 29/07/2022]

General exemption

 44.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
52  NO. 1 OF 2022

either generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions
as the Minister may impose.

 (2) Every order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 45.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing matters
which by this Act are required or permitted to be prescribed, or which
are necessary or convenient to be prescribed, for carrying out or
giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations to provide for
any of the following:

       (a) the offences under this Act that may be compounded;

       (b) that any contravention of any provision of the Regulations
            is an offence and that the penalty for which on conviction
            may be a fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or both;

       (c) such saving, transitional, and other consequential,
            incidental and supplemental provisions as are necessary
            or expedient for regulations made under this section.

 (3) All Regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                    PART 7

                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                        AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Related amendments to Casino Control Act

 46.—(1) Section 41(1) of the Casino Control Act is amended by
deleting the words “of 10 years commencing from the date on which a
second site for a casino is designated by an order made under
section 2(2)” and substituting the words “ending on (and including)
31 December 2030”.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           53

 (2) Section 42(1) of the Casino Control Act is amended by deleting
the words “of 10 years commencing from the date on which a second
site for a casino is designated by an order made under section 2(2)”
and substituting the words “mentioned in section 41(1)”.

 (3) Section 143(1) of the Casino Control Act is amended by
deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph:

            “(b) retained, for the period prescribed for that record or
                  type of record, or a shorter period that the Authority
                  may allow for any particular record or case; and”.

 (4) Section 146 of the Casino Control Act is amended —

       (a) by deleting “5%” in subsection (2)(a) and substituting
            “12%”;

       (b) by deleting “15%” in subsection (2)(b) and substituting
            “22%”;

       (c) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following
            subsections:

                    “(3) Despite subsection (2), the following rates of
                  casino tax apply to a casino operator for any period
                  during the moratorium period if the casino operator
                  satisfactorily meets the targets relevant to the
                  development of the facilities and services of the
                  casino operator’s integrated resort as are specified, at
                  the start of the moratorium period, for that casino
                  operator by the Minister charged with the
                  responsibility for tourism development and
                  promotion:

                          (a) with respect to the monthly gross gaming
                               revenue from premium players —

                                 (i) 8% of the gross gaming revenue from
                                      premium players, for the first
                                      $2.4 billion of the gross gaming
                                      revenue in a year; and

                                 (ii) 12% of the gross gaming revenue
                                      from premium players, for the gross

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
54  NO. 1 OF 2022

                       gaming revenue in excess of
                       $2.4 billion in the year;

           (b) with respect to the monthly gross gaming
                revenue from any other players —

                   (i) 18% of the gross gaming revenue
                       from any other players, for the first
                       $3.1 billion of the gross gaming
                       revenue in a year; and

                  (ii) 22% of the gross gaming revenue
                       from any other players, for the gross
                       gaming revenue in excess of
                       $3.1 billion in the year.

     (3A) Despite subsection (3), the Comptroller may
    make an assessment or additional assessment in the
    prescribed manner, at the rates of tax specified in
    subsection (2), upon a casino operator for any gross
    gaming revenue during any period during the
    moratorium period where it appears to the
    Comptroller that the amount of gross gaming
    revenue ought not to have been charged with casino
    tax at the rates of tax specified in subsection (3)
    because the Minister charged with the responsibility
    for tourism development and promotion has
    determined that the casino operator does not, or
    failed to, satisfactorily meet any of the targets relevant
    to the development of the facilities and services of the
    casino operator’s integrated resort that are specified
    under subsection (3) for that casino operator.

     (3B) If subsection (3A) applies, the Comptroller
    must also add to any assessment or additional
    assessment of casino tax interest, at the prescribed
    rate, on the amount of casino tax that ought not to
    have been exempted.

     (3C) However, the Comptroller must not make any
    assessment or additional assessment under
    subsection (3A) or exercise any power under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           55

                  subsection (3B) more than 12 months after any
                  determination that the casino operator does not, or
                  failed to, satisfactorily meet any of the targets relevant
                  to the development of the facilities and services of the
                  casino operator’s integrated resort that are specified
                  under subsection (3) for that casino operator.

                    (3D) A reference in sections 146C, 146D and 146E
                  to an assessment under section 146B includes a
                  reference to an assessment or additional assessment
                  made under subsection (3A).”; and

       (d) by inserting, immediately after the definition of “Minister”
            in subsection (6), the following definition:

                     “ “moratorium period” means a period of 10 years
                           starting 1 March 2022;”.

 (5) Section 150A of the Casino Control Act is amended by
inserting, immediately after subsection (8), the following subsection:

       “(9) Where —

             (a) an amount of casino tax is due from any person under
                  this Act otherwise than as an agent under this section;

             (b) except for this subsection, an amount is or would, at
                  any time during the period of 90 days after the date of
                  the receipt of the notice in paragraph (c), be payable
                  by the Government to the defaulting taxpayer by or
                  under any written law, contract or scheme; and

             (c) before payment of the amount referred to in
                  paragraph (b) is made to the defaulting taxpayer,
                  the Commissioner gives notice to any public officer
                  (including an employee appointed under section 9 of
                  the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992)
                  by whom the payment is to be made that the tax is due
                  from the defaulting taxpayer,

      then the public officer must and is entitled to, despite any other
      written law, contract or scheme, reduce the amount mentioned in
      paragraph (b) by the amount of the whole or any part of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
56  NO. 1 OF 2022

      casino tax mentioned in paragraph (a), and if the public officer
      makes such a reduction —

             (d) the amount of the casino tax mentioned in
                  paragraph (a) is reduced by the amount of the
                  reduction; and

             (e) the amount of the reduction is, to the extent of such
                  amount, deemed to have been paid to the defaulting
                  taxpayer in accordance with any law, contract or
                  scheme governing the payment of moneys mentioned
                  in paragraph (b) to the defaulting taxpayer.”.

Consequential amendments to Goods and Services Tax Act

 47.—(1) Section 35 of the Goods and Services Tax Act is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “fruit machines” in subsection (1)
            and substituting the words “gaming machines”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “ “fruit machines” have the
            meanings given by the Private Lotteries Act 2011” in
            subsection (3) and substituting the words “ “gaming
            machines” have the meanings given by the Gambling
            Duties Act 2022”.

 (2) The Third Schedule to the Goods and Services Tax Act is
amended by deleting the words “betting and sweepstake duties, cess,
film hire duty, lotteries duty” in paragraph 12 and substituting the
words “gambling duties, cess, film hire duty”.

Consequential amendments to Inland Revenue Authority of
Singapore Act

 48.—(1) Section 6(1) of the Inland Revenue Authority of
Singapore Act is amended by deleting the words “betting and
sweepstake duties, private lotteries duty” in paragraph (a) and
substituting the words “gambling duties”.

 (2) The Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act is amended by
inserting, immediately after section 28, the following section:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           57

“Electronic service system

 29.—(1) The Authority may establish a system providing for
the electronic service —

       (a) by a person (or an electronic service agent on behalf
            of such a person) on the Authority or an officer of the
            Authority administering any relevant tax legislation;
            or

       (b) by the Authority, or an officer of the Authority
            administering any relevant tax legislation, on a person
            or an electronic service agent on behalf of such a
            person,

of an application, a return, notice or other document which is
permitted or required by or under any relevant tax legislation to
be served or given.

 (2) Regulations may be made under section 31 regarding the
administration and use of the system provided under this section,
including —

       (a) the assignment of authentication codes and accounts
            to users of the service;

       (b) the circumstances under which authentication codes
            and accounts of users may be cancelled or suspended;

       (c) the registration of electronic service agents of account
            holders, including the qualifications to be registered
            as electronic service agents, and the cancellation and
            suspension of such registration;

       (d) the manner in which an electronic service agent may
            be authorised by a person to give or serve on behalf of
            that person through the electronic service an
            application, a return, notice or other document;

       (e) the inspection by the Authority (or any person
            authorised in writing by the Authority) of records
            and accounts kept by electronic service agents
            relating to the use of the system;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
58  NO. 1 OF 2022

            (f) the procedure for the proper use of the system,
                including the procedure in circumstances where there
                is a breakdown of the system or an interruption in any
                electronic service using the system;

           (g) the procedure for the correcting of any return,
                estimate, statement, document or information that is
                electronically served using the system; and

           (h) the fees for —

                   (i) the use of the system;

                  (ii) the assignment of an authentication code or
                       account to use the system, and the cancellation
                       or suspension of such a code or an account on
                       request;

                 (iii) the registration of electronic service agents; and

                 (iv) corrections mentioned in paragraph (g).

     (3) Where an application, a return, notice or other document
    which is permitted or required by or under any relevant tax
    legislation is served electronically using the system provided
    under subsection (1), the following have effect despite any Act
    to the contrary:

           (a) the application, return, notice or document is deemed
                for the purposes of that legislation to be served on or
                given to the recipient at the time when the electronic
                record of the application, return, notice or document
                (as the case may be) enters the recipient’s account
                with the electronic service;

           (b) where the electronic service is done by an electronic
                service agent on behalf of any person (called in this
                section the principal) —

                   (i) the application, return, notice or document is
                       deemed to be served or given with the authority
                       of that person; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           59

              (ii) the principal is to be treated to be cognizant of
                   all matters in the application, return, notice or
                   document,

            unless that principal has, before the electronic service
            is done, informed the Chief Executive in the
            prescribed manner that the principal has revoked the
            authority of the electronic service agent for the
            serving of the application, return, notice or
            document in question;

       (c) where the electronic service of an application, a
            return, notice or other document which is permitted or
            required by or under any relevant tax legislation, is
            done using the authentication code assigned to a
            person before that person applies to cancel the
            authentication code —

               (i) the application, return, notice or document is,
                   for the purposes of that legislation, presumed to
                   have been served or given by that person unless
                   the person adduces evidence to the contrary;
                   and

              (ii) if that person alleges that he or she did not serve
                   or give the application, return, notice or
                   document, the burden lies on the person to
                   adduce evidence of that fact.

 (4) Despite any other Act, an electronic record of an
application, a return, notice or document which is permitted or
required by or under any relevant tax legislation that was
electronically served using the system provided under
subsection (1), or any copy or print-out of that electronic
record, is, in any proceedings under that legislation, admissible
as evidence of the facts stated or contained therein if that
electronic record, copy or print-out —

       (a) is certified by the Chief Executive (or an officer of the
            Authority he or she designates) to contain all or any
            information filed, submitted or served through the
            electronic service in accordance with this section; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
60  NO. 1 OF 2022

           (b) is duly authenticated in the manner specified in
                subsection (6) or is otherwise authenticated in the
                manner provided in the Evidence Act 1893 for the
                authentication of computer output.

     (5) Where the electronic record of any document, or a copy or
    print-out of that electronic record, is admissible under
    subsection (4), it must be presumed, until the contrary is
    proved, that the electronic record, copy or print-out accurately
    reproduces the contents of that document.

     (6) For the purposes of this section, a certificate —

           (a) giving the particulars of —

                   (i) any person whose authentication code was used
                       to electronically serve the document using the
                       system; or

                  (ii) any person or device involved in the production
                       or transmission of the electronic record of the
                       document, or the copy or print-out;

           (b) identifying the nature of the electronic record or a
                copy or print-out; and

           (c) purporting to be signed by the Chief Executive or an
                officer of the Authority he or she designates at the
                relevant time,

    is sufficient evidence that the electronic record, copy or print-out
    has been duly authenticated, unless the court, in its discretion,
    calls for further evidence on this issue.

     (7) For the purposes of this section and any regulations made
    for the purposes of this section —

          “authentication code”, in relation to any person, means an
             identification or identifying code, a password or any
             other authentication method or procedure which is
             assigned to that person for the purposes of identifying
             and authenticating the access to, and use of, the system
             provided under subsection (1) by that person, and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           61

               includes one assigned for such purposes in order to file,
               submit or retrieve a particular document only;

            “electronic record” has the meaning given by the Electronic
               Transactions Act 2010;

            “relevant tax legislation”, for any application, return, notice
               or other document permitted or required by or under
               such legislation, means —

                    (a) this section and any regulations made under
                         section 31 for the purposes of this section; or

                    (b) any written law specified in the Third Schedule
                         which provides for a method for the service of
                         applications, returns, notices or documents of
                         that kind if the recipient consents (expressly or
                         impliedly) to service of an application, a return,
                         notice or document of that kind in that way.”.

 (3) Item 2 of the Third Schedule to the Inland Revenue Authority of
Singapore Act is deleted and the following item substituted therefor:

      “2. Gambling Duties Act 2022.”.

 (4) Item 6 of the Fourth Schedule to the Inland Revenue Authority
of Singapore Act is deleted and the following item substituted
therefor:

      “6. The Commissioner of Gambling Duties under the Gambling Duties

      Act 2022.”.

Consequential amendments to Private Lotteries Act

 49.—(1) Section 2 of the Private Lotteries Act is amended by
deleting the definitions of “book”, “Chief Assessor”,
“Commissioner”, “Commissioner of Stamp Duties”, “Comptroller
of Goods and Services Tax”, “Comptroller of Income Tax”,
“Comptroller of Property Tax” and “public accountant”.

 (2) Section 3 of the Private Lotteries Act is amended by deleting
subsection (1).

 (3) Sections 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 22 of the
Private Lotteries Act are repealed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
62  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (4) Section 29 of the Private Lotteries Act is amended by deleting
subsection (1).

 (5) Section 31(2) of the Private Lotteries Act is amended by
deleting the definition of “Minister”.

 (6) Section 32 of the Private Lotteries Act is amended —

       (a) by deleting subsection (2); and

       (b) by deleting the words “subsections (1) and (2)” in
            subsection (3) and substituting the words “subsection (1)”.

Consequential amendment to Singapore Totalisator Board Act

 50. Section 12(1) of the Singapore Totalisator Board Act is
amended by deleting the words “duty charged under the Betting
and Sweepstake Duties Act 1950” and substituting the words
“gambling duty charged under the Gambling Duties Act 2022”.

Repeal

 51. The Betting and Sweepstake Duties Act is repealed.

Saving and transitional provisions

 52.—(1) Section 46(3) does not apply with respect to any records
made before the date of commencement of that section.

 (2) Despite section 49, any notice, order or other document
prepared, issued or made by the Commissioner of Betting Duties
under section 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 or 19 of the Private Lotteries
Act 2011 is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, to continue and be deemed to have been prepared, issued or
made under the corresponding provisions of this Act or the
Regulations.

 (3) Despite section 49, where —

       (a) an appeal has been made to the Minister under
            section 14(7) of the Private Lotteries Act 2011 before
            the date of commencement of section 49; and

       (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of
            immediately before that date,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           63

the appeal may be dealt with in accordance with the repealed
section 14(7) as if this Act had not been enacted.

 (4) Any duties which are charged on a private lottery or in respect
of any fruit machine under section 15 of the Private Lotteries
Act 2011 and are due and payable immediately before the date of
commencement of section 49(1) are deemed to be gambling duties
charged under this Act.

 (5) Any penalty which is imposed under section 15(7) of the Private
Lotteries Act 2011 on unpaid duty in respect of a private lottery or
any fruit machine and is due and payable immediately before the date
of commencement of section 49(1) is deemed to be a penalty tax
imposed under this Act.

 (6) The individual who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 51, is —

       (a) the Commissioner of Betting Duties;

       (b) a Deputy Commissioner of Betting Duties; or

       (c) an Assistant Commissioner of Betting Duties,

continues as if he or she were appointed under section 32 as the
Commissioner of Gambling Duties, a Deputy Commissioner of
Gambling Duties and an Assistant Commissioner of Gambling
Duties, respectively, and their respective appointments are to expire
on the date they would have expired if section 51 had not been
enacted.

 (7) Despite section 51, any notice, order or other document
prepared, issued or made by the Commissioner of Betting Duties
under the Betting and Sweepstake Duties Act 1950 is, so far as it is
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue and be
deemed to have been prepared, issued or made under the
corresponding provisions of this Act or the Regulations.

 (8) Any duty on betting and sweepstakes which is charged under
the Betting and Sweepstake Duties Act 1950 and is due immediately
before the date of commencement of section 51 is deemed to be a
gambling duty charged under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
64  NO. 1 OF 2022

 (9) Except as otherwise expressly provided in regulations made
under subsection (12), where any period of time specified in any
former provision is current immediately before the date of
commencement of the repeal or amendment (as the case may be)
of the former provision, this Act has effect as if the corresponding
provision in this Act had been in force when the period began to run;
and any period of time so specified and current is deemed for the
purposes of this Act —

       (a) to continue to run from the date or event from which it was
            running immediately before that date of commencement;
            and

       (b) to expire (subject to any provision of this Act for its
            extension) whenever it would have expired if this Act had
            not been enacted,

and any rights, liabilities, reliefs, obligations, requirements, powers,
duties or exemptions that, under the former provision, are dependent
on the beginning, duration or end of such a period must continue as if
this Act had not been enacted.

 (10) Any written law or document referring to a former provision
is, as far as may be necessary for preserving its effect, to be construed
as referring or as including a reference to the provision in this Act
corresponding to the former provision.

 (11) In subsections (9) and (10), “former provision” means —

       (a) a provision of the Private Lotteries Act 2011 repealed or
            amended by section 49; or

       (b) a provision of the Betting and Sweepstake Duties Act 1950
            repealed by section 51.

 (12) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

 (13) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
GAMBLING DUTIES                                           65

 (14) To avoid doubt, nothing in or done under this section
prejudices section 16 of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 29/7/2022
