THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
INFO-COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA DEVELOPMENT

                     AUTHORITY ACT 2016

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

   Info-communications Media
Development Authority Act 2016

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS
                                OF AUTHORITY

3. Info-communications Media Development Authority
4. Authority is body corporate
5. Functions of Authority
6. Powers of Authority
7. Powers of Authority in relation to proposals for privatisation
8. Directions of Minister, etc.
9. Authority’s symbols, etc.

                                        PART 3

        CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AUTHORITY

             Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal

10. Membership of Authority
11. Appointment of members of Authority
12. Membership disqualification
13. Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
14. Premature vacancies
15. Temporary Chairperson and members
16. Removal of member
17. Resignation from office
18. Validity of acts, etc.

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            2

          Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

Section   Term of appointment
          Remuneration, etc.
   19.    Vacation of office
   20.    Other terms and conditions
   21.
   22.

          Division 3 — [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

23. to 27. [Repealed]

                                        PART 4

                    DECISION-MAKING BY AUTHORITY

                               Division 1 — Meetings

28. Procedure generally
29. Notice of meetings
30. [Repealed]
31. Quorum
32. Presiding at meetings
33. Voting at meetings
34. [Repealed]
35. Execution of documents

                    Division 2 — Committees and delegation

36. Appointment of committees
37. Proceedings of committees, etc.
38. Ability to delegate
39. Validity of delegate’s acts, etc.

                                        PART 5

                             PERSONNEL MATTERS

40. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
41. [Repealed]
42. Inspecting officers
43. [Repealed]
44. Preservation of secrecy
45. Protection from personal liability

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
   Info-communications Media

3  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

   PART 6

   FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Section

   46. Financial year
   47. Revenue and property of Authority
   48. Payments into Consolidated Fund
   49. Bank accounts
   50. [Repealed]
   51. [Repealed]
   52. Power of investment
   53. Issue of shares, etc.
   54. Borrowing power
   55. to 59. [Repealed]

                                           PART 7

               COMPETITION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION

   59. Interpretation of this Part
   60. Application of this Part
   60A. What holding an equity interest means
   60B. Meaning of “associate”
   61. Codes of practice, etc.
   61A. Directions affecting regulated persons and owners or controllers

            of essential resources
   62. Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting

            competition
   63. Abuse of dominant position
   64. Exemption
   65. Control of equity interests and voting power in regulated person
   65A. Power to issue directions relating to control of regulated persons
   65B. Power of Authority to obtain information relating to control of

            regulated persons
   65C. Power of Authority in relation to alternative dispute resolution

            scheme
   66. Written orders and financial penalties
   67. Dispute resolution
   67A. Reconsideration by Authority
   68. Appeals to Minister
   69. Power to disclose confidential information
   69A. Power of Minister to issue separation order

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                                4

          PART 8

          ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Section   Powers of investigation
   70.    Power to enter premises under warrant
   71.    Power to obtain information for carrying out Authority’s
   71A.   functions
          Retention and disposal of documents, etc.
   72.    Information or document subject to legal privilege
   73.    Offences relating to enforcement
   74.    False or misleading information, statement or document, etc.
   75.    Penalty for obstructing or hindering Authority
   76.    Composition of offences
   77.    Offences by corporations
   78.    Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   79.    Interest on financial penalties
   79A.   Financial penalties and interest collected
   79B.   Service of documents
   80.    Regulations
   81.

                                        PART 9

          TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND PERSONNEL
                                  TO AUTHORITY

82. Interpretation of this Part
83. Transfer of undertakings to Authority
84. Transfer of employees to Authority
85. General preservation of employment terms, etc.
86. Transfer of records

                                       PART 10

        REPEAL, SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

87. Interpretation of this Part
88. Application of this Part
89. [Omitted]
90. Repeal of Media Development Authority of Singapore Act
91. Saving and transitional provisions for principal Acts
92. Other saving and transitional provisions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
   Info-communications Media

5  Development Authority Act 2016  2020 Ed.

An Act to establish the Info‑communications Media Development
  Authority, and to make provision for competition and consumer
  protection in the media industry.

   [1 October 2016: Except sections 89, 90(1) and 96(v) ;
           2 October 2016: Sections 89, 90(1) and 96(v) ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Info-communications Media Development
Authority Act 2016.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
         arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
         express or implied;

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

      “Authority” means the Info‑communications Media
         Development Authority established by section 3;

      “broadcasting licence” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
         the Broadcasting Act 1994;

      “broadcasting service” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
         the Broadcasting Act 1994;

      “Chairperson”, in relation to the Authority, means the member
         of the Authority who is appointed under section 13(1)(a) as
         the Chairperson of the Authority, and includes any individual
         acting in that capacity;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority,
         and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

      “code of practice” means a code of practice issued under
         section 61;

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            6

“committee”, in relation to the Authority, means a committee of
   the Authority appointed under section 36;

“committee member” means a member of a committee of the
   Authority appointed under section 36;

“control” includes control as a result of, or by means of, any
   agreement, arrangement, understanding or practice, whether
   or not having legal or equitable force and whether or not
   based on legal or equitable rights;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

“controller”, in relation to an essential resource, means a person
   who controls the use of the essential resource and is
   designated by the Authority as a controller of the essential
   resource in a manner as will secure adequate notice to that
   person of the designation;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

“delegate”, in relation to the Authority, means a person to whom
   the Authority, under section 38(1), delegates any of its
   functions or powers;

“Deputy Chairperson”, in relation to the Authority, means the
   member of the Authority who is appointed under
   section 13(1)(b) as the Deputy Chairperson of the Authority;

“document” includes any device or medium on which
   information is recorded or stored;

“employee”, in relation to the Authority, means —

          (a) in the case of section 6(2)(r) and Part 9, an individual
               who is employed by the Authority under a contract of
               service; or

          (b) in any other case, an individual who is employed by
               the Authority under a contract of service or who is
               otherwise engaged to perform duties in the Authority;

“essential resource” means any apparatus, accessory, system,
   service, information or other resource of any kind that is —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
   Info-communications Media

7  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

   (a) used or intended to be used in connection with the
        provision of any media service; and

   (b) specified by the Authority to be an essential resource,
        of which notice is published or given by the
        Authority in a manner that will secure adequate
        publicity or notice of that specification;

                                                                          [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

   “function”, in relation to the Authority, means a function
      conferred on the Authority by this Act or any other Act;

   “information and communications service” means any service
      involving the use of information and communications
      technology;

   “information and communications system” means any system
      used or intended to be used for information and
      communications technology;

   “information and communications technology” means any
      technology employed in the collection, storage, use or
      transmission of information, and includes a technology that
      involves the use of a computer or a telecommunication
      system;

   “information, communications and media industry” means an
      industry comprising persons who carry on any business or
      engage in any commercial activity in connection with one or
      more, or any part, or any combination, of the following:

   (a) an information and communications service;

   (b) a media service;

   (c) an information and communications system;

   (d) an information and communications technology;

   “inspecting officer” means an individual who is appointed as an
      inspecting officer under section 42;

   “media” means —

   (a) a film as defined in section 2(1) of the Films
        Act 1981;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            8

          (b) a newspaper;

          (c) a broadcasting service;

          (d) a publication as defined in section 2 of the
               Undesirable Publications Act 1967; or

          (e) any other medium of communication of information,
              entertainment or other matter to the public (or a
              section of the public) that the Minister may, by order
              in the Gazette, specify,

          and “media industry” and “media service” have
          corresponding meanings;

“media resource” means any accessory, apparatus, building,
   equipment, information, land, machinery, service, structure,
   system, or other resource of any kind, that is used or intended
   to be used in connection with the provision of any media
   service;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

“member”, in relation to the Authority, means a member of the
   Authority appointed under section 11, and includes a
   temporary member appointed under section 15(2);

“newspaper” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974;

“newspaper company” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974;

“newspaper permit” means a permit granted under section 21 of
   the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

“owner”, in relation to an essential resource, means a person
   who owns the essential resource and is designated by the
   Authority as an owner of that essential resource in a manner
   that will secure adequate notice to that person of the person’s
   designation;

                                       [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
   Info-communications Media

9  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

   “power”, in relation to the Authority, means a power given to the
      Authority by this Act or any other Act;

   “proprietor”, in relation to a newspaper, has the meaning given
      by section 2(1) of the Newspaper and Printing Presses
      Act 1974;

   [Deleted by Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

   “standard of performance” means a standard of performance
      issued under section 61;

                                                                          [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

   “telecommunication service” has the meaning given by section 2
      of the Telecommunications Act 1999;

   “telecommunication system” has the meaning given by section 2
      of the Telecommunications Act 1999;

   “telecommunications” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
      Telecommunications Act 1999.

                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 2
         ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS

                              OF AUTHORITY
Info-communications Media Development Authority

 3. A body called the Info‑communications Media Development
Authority is established by this section.

Authority is body corporate
 4. The Authority —
       (a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession;
       (b) may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal
            property; and
       (c) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            10

Functions of Authority

5.—(1) The Authority has the following functions:

(a) to promote the efficiency, competitiveness (including
     internationally) and development of the information,
     communications and media industry in Singapore;

(b) to promote and maintain fair and efficient market conduct
     and effective competition between persons engaged in
     commercial activities in connection with media services or
     telecommunication systems and services in Singapore or,
     in the absence of a competitive market, to prevent the
     misuse of monopoly or market power;

          (c) to regulate the provision and use of telecommunication
              systems, and equipment and software in connection with
              such systems, and telecommunication services, in
              Singapore, including by —

          (i) ensuring that telecommunication services are
              reasonably accessible to all persons in Singapore,
              and are supplied as efficiently and economically as
              practicable and at performance standards that
              reasonably meet the social, industrial and
              commercial needs of Singapore; and

          (ii) determining or approving prices, tariffs and charges
               for the provision of telecommunication systems and
               services;

(d) to regulate the provision and use of media services, and
     equipment and facilities used in connection with media
     services, in Singapore, including by —

          (i) facilitating the provision of an adequate range of
              media services that serves the interests of the general
              public;

          (ii) ensuring that media services are provided at a high
               standard in all respects, particularly in respect of the
               quality, balance and range of subject matter of their
               content; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

11  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (iii) ensuring that the content of media services is not
          against public interest, public order or national
          harmony, and does not offend against good taste or
          decency;

    (e) to promote the use of the Internet and electronic commerce
        in Singapore and to establish regulatory frameworks for
        that purpose;

    (ea) to establish and administer systems in Singapore for the
          promotion of online safety including but not limited to any
          system necessary for the administration of the Online
          Safety (Relief and Accountability) Act 2025;

                                                                          [Act 23 of 2025 wef 29/06/2026]

    (eb) to provide administrative and personnel support services to
          the Commissioner of Online Safety appointed under
          section 5 of the Online Safety (Relief and
          Accountability) Act 2025;

                                                                          [Act 23 of 2025 wef 29/06/2026]

      (f) to regulate and manage domain names of Internet websites
          in Singapore;

    (g) to promote the use of information and communications
         technology in Singapore and, where necessary, to
         collaborate with the Government Technology Agency
         (established by section 3 of the Government Technology
         Agency Act 2016) in respect of that;

    (h) to promote, where suitable, self‑regulation in the
         information, communications and media industry in
         Singapore;

    (i) to advise the Government on matters relating to the
        information, communications and media industry and the
        functions of the Authority;

    (j) to represent Singapore and advance Singapore’s interest
        internationally in matters relating to the information,
        communications and media industry;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            12

          (k) to promote research and development into technological
              matters relating to the information, communications and
              media industry;

          (l) to promote and set standards for the training, and the
              upgrading of the competencies, of persons for the purposes
              of the information, communications and media industry in
              Singapore;

(m) to provide consultancy services in or outside Singapore
     relating to the information, communications and media
     industry;

(n) to perform such other functions as may be conferred on the
     Authority by any other Act.

 (2) In performing the functions conferred on the Authority by
subsection (1), the Authority is to have regard to —

(a) efficiency and economy;

(b) the social, industrial and commercial needs of Singapore
     for information and communications services and media
     services; and

          (c) the convergence of information and communications
              services and media services, and the need to
              accommodate technological changes, in and outside
              Singapore.

 (3) The Authority may also undertake such other functions as the
Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, assign to the Authority,
and in so undertaking —

(a) the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
     Act; and

(b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Authority in respect
     of those other functions.

 (4) Nothing in this section imposes on the Authority, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Authority would not otherwise be
subject.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

13  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Powers of Authority

 6.—(1) Subject to this Act, the Authority has power to do all things
necessary or convenient to be done for, or in connection with, the
performance of its functions.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), powers of the Authority
include power —

    (a) to issue or approve, and monitor the compliance with,
         codes of practice, standards of performance and advisory
         guidelines on any matter relating to the functions of the
         Authority;

    (b) to control and regulate the management and allocation of
         numbering plans and schemes for telecommunication
         systems and services;

    (c) to construct, install, maintain, repair, operate and supply
        any installation, plant, system or equipment, or any
        building relating to that, for telecommunications or
        broadcasting purposes;

    (d) to engage (on its own or with another person) in the
         manufacture or sale, whether in or outside Singapore, of
         any equipment for telecommunications or broadcasting
         purposes;

    (e) to provide all forms of information and communications
        systems and services;

    (f) to determine such rates, charges and fees, or their
        apportionment, as between the Authority and
        telecommunications authorities outside Singapore, as the
        Authority considers appropriate;

    (g) to charge for the provision of goods or services, or the
         performance of work, by or on behalf of the Authority;

    (h) to waive or refund the whole or part of any fee or charges
         payable or paid to the Authority under this Act or any other
         Act administered by the Authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            14

          (i) to collaborate with other organisations (in or outside
              Singapore) for the purposes of promoting information and
              communications services and media services;

          (j) to conduct or commission research on the effect of media
              content, or public opinion or community attitudes on issues
              relating to media content;

          (k) to conduct research and investigations necessary for the
              development of information and communications services
              and media services in Singapore;

          (l) to organise, provide for or collaborate with any person on
              training programmes, assessments and certifications of,
              and scholarships for, persons in relation to the information,
              communications and media industry;

(m) to become a member or an affiliate of an international body
     that has functions similar to those of the Authority;

(n) to enter into agreements and arrangements;

(o) to form or participate in the formation of a body corporate,
     unincorporated association or trust, or enter into a joint
     venture with any person;

(p) to carry out such works or activities as the Authority
     considers to be necessary, advantageous or convenient,
     with a view to making the best use of the Authority’s
     assets;

(q) to accept grants, gifts, donations or contributions from any
     source, or raise funds by all lawful means;

          (r) to grant loans to, or guarantee the loans of, the employees
              of the Authority;

          (s) to provide financial support, grant, aid or assistance to any
              person in connection with any function of the Authority;
              and

          (t) to do any other thing that is necessary or convenient to be
              done for or in connection with, or as incidental to, the
              performance of its functions.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

15  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not limit any other power
given to the Authority by any other provision in this Act or by any
other Act.

Powers of Authority in relation to proposals for privatisation

 7.—(1) Where the Minister proposes to transfer any property or
function of the Authority to another body corporate (called in this
section the transferee), the Authority has the power to do anything
which, in the opinion of the Authority, is appropriate for the purpose
of —

       (a) facilitating the implementation of the Minister’s proposal;

       (b) facilitating the implementation of, or securing a
            modification of, any related proposal of the Minister;

       (c) promoting, in relation to the Minister’s proposal or related
            proposal, the interest of the transferee; or

       (d) promoting, in relation to the Minister’s proposal or related
            proposal, the interest of a body corporate that may become,
            under the Minister’s proposal or related proposal, a
            member of the same group as the transferee.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not limit any other power
given to the Authority by any other provision in this Act or by any
other Act.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), a body corporate is a
member of the same group as the transferee if —

       (a) the body corporate is a holding company or subsidiary of
            the transferee; or

       (b) the body corporate is another subsidiary of the transferee’s
            holding company.

 (4) In this section —

      “holding company” and “subsidiary” have the meanings given
         by section 5 of the Companies Act 1967;

      “related proposal” means a proposal of the Minister that relates
         to the Minister’s proposal to transfer a property or function of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            16

          the Authority to the transferee, and includes a proposal
          relating to or connected with —

          (a) any property, right or liability of the Authority that
               would be affected by the proposed transfer, or that is
               proposed to be transferred to the transferee;

          (b) the performance, whether before or after the transfer,
               of a function of the Authority that is proposed to be
               transferred to the transferee; or

          (c) the formation, flotation, control, finances, or officers
              or employees, of the transferee or of any other body
              corporate that may become, under the Minister’s
              proposal or related proposal, a member of the same
              group as the transferee.

Directions of Minister, etc.

 8.—(1) The Minister may give to the Authority any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled —

       (a) to information in the Authority’s possession; and

       (b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
            make and retain copies of, that document.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, the Minister may request the
Authority —

       (a) to provide information to the Minister; or

       (b) to give the Minister access to information.

 (4) The Authority must comply with a request under subsection (3).

 (5) In this section, “information” means information specified, or of
a description specified, by the Minister that relates to the Authority’s
functions, and includes a document.

Authority’s symbols, etc.

 9.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of one or
more symbols or representations as it may select or devise (each

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

17  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

called in this section the Authority’s symbol or representation), and to
display or exhibit those symbols or representations in connection
with the Authority’s activities or affairs.

(2) A person who —

    (a) uses, without the Authority’s prior written permission, a
         symbol or representation that is identical with the
         Authority’s symbol or representation; or

    (b) uses a symbol or representation that so resembles the
         Authority’s symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
         confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                    PART 3
    CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AUTHORITY

         Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
Membership of Authority

 10.—(1) The Authority consists of at least 6 and not more than
20 members.

 (2) One of the members (who is not the Chairperson or Deputy
Chairperson) may be the Chief Executive.

Appointment of members of Authority
 11.—(1) Each member is to be appointed by the Minister.
 (2) Every appointment must be made by instrument in writing

given to the member.
 (3) The instrument must state —
       (a) the term of the appointment; and
       (b) the date the appointment takes effect (which must not be
            earlier than the date on which the member receives the
            instrument).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            18

Membership disqualification

 12.—(1) In appointing members, the Minister must have regard to
whether the members will collectively possess the appropriate
knowledge, skills and experience to assist the Authority to perform
its functions effectively.

 (2) The following individuals are disqualified to be or from being a
member:

(a) a Judge or judicial officer;

(b) an undischarged bankrupt;

          (c) an individual who has been sentenced to imprisonment for
              a term of 6 months or more, and has not received a free
              pardon;

(d) an individual who is —

          (i) disqualified under section 154(1) of the Companies
               Act 1967 from acting as a director, or taking part
               (directly or indirectly) in the management, of a
               company during the period of disqualification in that
               section;

                                                                          [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

          (ii) disqualified by a court order (under section 149(1),
               149A(1) or 154(2) of the Companies Act 1967) from
               being a director or in any way (directly or indirectly)
               being concerned in, or taking part in, the
               management of a company during the period of
               disqualification in the court order;

          (iii) disqualified under section 58(1) of the Variable
                Capital Companies Act 2018 from acting as a
                director, or taking part (whether directly or
                indirectly) in the management of a VCC during the
                period of disqualification in that section; or

                                                                            [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

          (iv) disqualified by a court order (under section 56(1),
                57(1) or 58(2) of the Variable Capital Companies Act
                2018) from being a director or in any way (whether
                directly or indirectly) being concerned in, or taking

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

19  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

               part in, the management of a VCC during the period
               of disqualification in the court order;

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    (e) an individual who lacks capacity in respect of his or her
        duties as a member within the meaning of the Mental
        Capacity Act 2008, or in respect of whom an order is made
        under section 10 of the Mental Health (Care and
        Treatment) Act 2008.

 (3) In this section, “VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

 13.—(1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint —

       (a) a member to be the Chairperson of the Authority for the
            period specified in the instrument; and

       (b) a member (other than the Chairperson) to be the Deputy
            Chairperson of the Authority for the period specified in the
            instrument.

 (2) A member who is appointed as the Chief Executive is not
eligible for an appointment under subsection (1).

 (3) The Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson holds office until —

       (a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or Deputy
            Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;

       (b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member; or

       (c) the Minister terminates his or her appointment as
            Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson (as the case may be),

whichever first happens.

 (4) The Deputy Chairperson has and may perform all the functions
and exercise all the powers of the Chairperson in relation to a matter
if —

       (a) the Chairperson is unavailable; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            20

(b) the Chairperson is interested (within the meaning given by
     Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the
     matter.

                                                                                                  [5/2018]

Premature vacancies

 14.—(1) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of a member,
the Minister may, subject to sections 10 and 12, appoint an individual
to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the remainder of the term
for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (2) Section 11 applies to an appointment under subsection (1).

 (3) In this section, “premature vacancy”, for an office, means a
vacancy that occurs in that office for any reason other than the expiry
of the term of office.

Temporary Chairperson and members

 15.—(1) The Minister may appoint an individual (other than the
Chief Executive) to act temporarily as the Chairperson of the
Authority during any period, or during all periods, when the
Chairperson —

       (a) is absent from duty or from Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily as a
member of the Authority (other than the Chairperson) during any
period, or during all periods, when the member —

       (a) is absent from duty or from Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (3) An individual is ineligible for appointment under this section to
act as the Chairperson or a member if the individual is disqualified
under section 12(2) for appointment as a member of the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

21  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Removal of member

 16.—(1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove a member from office.

 (2) Every removal under subsection (1) must be made by written
notice to the member.

 (3) The notice must state the date the removal takes effect (which
must not be earlier than the date on which the member receives the
notice).

Resignation from office

 17.—(1) A member may resign his or her office by written notice to
the Minister.

 (2) The resignation is effective —

       (a) on the expiry of one month after the date on which the
            Minister receives the notice; or

       (b) on any later date specified in the notice.

Validity of acts, etc.

 18.—(1) The performance of any function, or the exercise of any
power, by the Authority is not affected merely because at the relevant
time —

       (a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Authority,
            including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
            member;

       (b) there was some defect or irregularity in the appointment or
            continuance in office of an individual purporting to be a
            member; or

       (c) there was an irregularity in the Authority’s
            decision‑making procedure (but only if the irregularity
            did not affect the merits of the decision made).

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Authority are not
affected merely because there was some defect or irregularity in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            22

appointment or continuance in office of the individual purporting to
be a member.

           Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members
Term of appointment

 19.—(1) The term of appointment of a member must not exceed
3 years.

 (2) A member may be re‑appointed.

Remuneration, etc.
 20. The members are to be paid, out of the funds of the Authority,

such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Vacation of office
 21.—(1) A member ceases to hold office if he or she —

       (a) dies;
       (b) is adjudicated a bankrupt;

       (c) becomes disqualified from being a member under
            section 12(2);

       (d) is removed from office in accordance with section 16;
       (e) resigns in accordance with section 17;

        (f) without reasonable cause, fails to disclose any interest
            required to be disclosed under the Public Sector
            (Governance) Act 2018 and the Authority reports to the
            Minister under that Act of the member’s failure to do so;

       (g) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Authority
            (without the approval of the Authority); or

       (h) is not re‑appointed when his or her term of office expires.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) A member is not entitled to any compensation or other payment
or benefit relating to his or her ceasing, for any reason, to hold office
as a member.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

23  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Other terms and conditions

 22. The Minister may specify other terms and conditions of
appointment of a member in the instrument of appointment.

             Division 3 — [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
23. to 27. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 4
                DECISION-MAKING BY AUTHORITY

                           Division 1 — Meetings
Procedure generally

 28. Except as otherwise provided under this Act or any other Act,
the members may regulate their own procedure.

Notice of meetings
 29.—(1) The Authority is to hold such meetings as are necessary

for performing its functions.
 (2) The Chairperson must appoint the times and places of the

meetings of the Authority, and cause notice of those meetings to be
given to each member not present when the appointment is made.

 (3) If the Chairperson receives a written request, signed by 4 or
more members, that a meeting of the Authority be convened for a
purpose specified in the request, the Chairperson must, within 7 days
after receiving the request, convene a meeting for that purpose.

 30. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Quorum
 31.—(1) The quorum for a meeting of the Authority is the higher of

the following:
       (a) one-third of the number of members;
       (b) 3 members.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            24

 (2) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Authority if a
quorum is not present.

Presiding at meetings

 32.—(1) At a meeting of the Authority, the following person
presides:

       (a) if there is a Chairperson and he or she is present and is not
            interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
            Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter — the
            Chairperson;

       (b) if there is no Chairperson, or the Chairperson is not present
            or is interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
            Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter, and
            there is a Deputy Chairperson who is present and is not
            interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
            Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter — the Deputy
            Chairperson;

       (c) in any other case, the member elected, from among the
            members present at the meeting, to preside.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The person specified in subsection (1)(b) or (c) may perform the
functions and exercise the powers of the Chairperson for the purposes
of the meeting.

Voting at meetings

 33.—(1) Each member has one vote.

 (2) In addition to his or her general vote, the person presiding at a
meeting has, in the case of an equality of votes at the meeting, a
casting vote.

 (3) A decision is adopted by the Authority at a meeting if it is
agreed to by all members present at the meeting without dissent or if a
majority of the votes cast on it are in favour of it.

 (4) A member present at a meeting of the Authority is presumed to
have agreed to, and to have cast a vote in favour of, a decision of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

25  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Authority unless he or she expressly dissents from or votes against
the decision at the meeting.

34. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Execution of documents

 35.—(1) The Authority must have a seal.

 (2) The Authority’s seal is to be kept and used as authorised by the
Authority.

 (3) A document is duly executed by the Authority if —

       (a) the Authority’s seal is affixed to the document in the
            presence of one of its members who must sign the
            document to attest that the seal was so affixed, and the
            document is signed —

               (i) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
                   by the Authority for the purpose; or

              (ii) by one member and the Chief Executive; or

       (b) it is signed on behalf of the Authority by a person or
            persons authorised to do so by the Authority and in
            accordance with the terms of that authorisation.

 (4) Where a document is to be executed under seal, the Authority
may, under subsection (3)(b), authorise one or more of its employees
to execute, on the Authority’s behalf, the document under the
Authority’s seal in accordance with the terms of that authorisation.

 (5) A document purporting to be executed in accordance with this
section is presumed to be duly executed until the contrary is shown.

 (6) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially must take
judicial notice of the imprint of the seal of the Authority appearing on
a document.

 (7) When a document is produced bearing a seal purporting to be
the seal of the Authority, it is presumed that the seal is the Authority’s
seal until the contrary is shown.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            26

          Division 2 — Committees and delegation

Appointment of committees

 36.—(1) The Authority may appoint any number of committees
that it thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of the Authority,
would be better regulated and managed by means of those
committees.

 (2) A committee appointed under this section may consist of such
individuals as the Authority thinks fit, and may include individuals
who are not members of the Authority.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may appoint
committees —

(a) to advise the Authority on matters relating to the
     Authority’s functions and powers that are referred to the
     committee by the Authority; or

(b) to perform any function or exercise any power of the
     Authority that is delegated to the committee, if the
     committee includes at least one member of the Authority.

 (4) An individual may not be appointed as a member of a committee
unless, before appointment, he or she discloses to the Authority the
details of any interest (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) the individual may have if he
or she were a member of that committee.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Proceedings of committees, etc.

 37.—(1) Subject to this Act, the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018 and the control of the Authority, a committee appointed
under section 36 may regulate its own proceedings and business.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Section 18 applies to a committee and the members of the
committee, with the necessary modifications.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                     Info-communications Media

27  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Ability to delegate

 38.—(1) The Authority may delegate any of its functions or
powers, either generally or specially and subject to any conditions or
restrictions that it thinks fit, to any of the following persons:

    (a) a member of the Authority;

    (b) the Chief Executive or an employee of the Authority;

    (c) a committee of the Authority that includes at least one
        member of the Authority;

    (d) a company that is incorporated in Singapore and is a
         subsidiary of the Authority.

 (2) A delegation under subsection (1) must be by written notice
given to the delegate.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not apply to any function or power under
this Act or any other Act that is declared by this Act or that other Act
to be non‑delegable.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (4) A delegation in accordance with this section —

    (a) except as otherwise provided in this Act or any other Act
         administered by the Authority, does not affect or prevent
         the performance of any function or the exercise of any
         power by the Authority;

    (b) is not affected by any change in the membership of a
         committee (where the committee is the delegate), so long
         as the committee includes at least one member of the
         Authority; and

       (c) is not affected by any change in the individual appointed as
            the Chief Executive or holding any specified office in the
            Authority (where the Chief Executive or the holder of the
            specified office is the delegate).

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a company is a subsidiary
of the Authority if —

    (a) the Authority is the sole member of that company; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            28

(b) the Authority, as a member of that company, holds more
     than half of the voting power in that company.

Validity of delegate’s acts, etc.

 39. A delegate who purports to perform a function or exercise a
power under delegation —

       (a) is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of the
            delegation under section 38, unless the contrary is shown;
            and

       (b) must produce evidence of the delegation, if reasonably
            requested to do so.

                                    PART 5

                         PERSONNEL MATTERS

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 40.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Authority, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 41. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                     Info-communications Media

29  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Inspecting officers

 42. The Authority may appoint, by name or office, from among the
Authority’s employees any number of inspecting officers required for
the purposes of this Act.

43. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Preservation of secrecy

 44.—(1) The Chief Executive, a member, an employee or a
delegate of the Authority, or a committee member, who has
information in his or her capacity as such that would not otherwise
be available to him or her, must not disclose that information to any
person except —

       (a) in the performance of the Authority’s functions;

       (b) with the prior authorisation from the Authority to do so;

       (c) in complying with the requirements in this Act for a
            member of the Authority or a committee member to
            disclose an interest;

       (d) as required or allowed by this Act or any other Act; or

       (e) as required by an order of court.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Protection from personal liability

 45. No liability shall lie against the Chief Executive, any member,
employee or delegate of the Authority, any committee member, or
any other person acting under the direction of the Authority, for
anything done or purported to be done, or omitted to be done, in good
faith and with reasonable care in —

       (a) the performance or purported performance of any function
            of the Authority; or

       (b) the exercise or purported exercise of any power of the
            Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.        Development Authority Act 2016                      30

                PART 6

                FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year

 46. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Revenue and property of Authority

 47.—(1) The funds and property of the Authority include —

       (a) all moneys paid to the Authority by way of grants,
            subsidies, donations, gifts and contributions for the
            purposes of the Authority;

       (b) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
            lawfully received by, the Authority for the purposes of the
            Authority;

       (c) all fees, charges and other sums paid to the Authority (or an
            employee of the Authority or any other person acting on
            behalf of the Authority), under this Act or any other Act
            administered by the Authority, except as otherwise
            provided in section 48 or that other Act;

       (d) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
            received from any transaction made under the powers of
            the Authority under this Act or any other Act administered
            by the Authority;

       (e) all moneys borrowed by the Authority under this Act; and

        (f) all accumulations of income derived from any property or
            money mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e).

 (2) The moneys of the Authority are to be applied only in payment
of expenses incurred by it in the discharge of its functions, obligations
and liabilities, and in making any payment that the Authority is
authorised or required to make.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

31  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Payments into Consolidated Fund

 48. All sums collected for the composition of an offence under this
Act or any other Act administered by the Authority must be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.

Bank accounts

 49.—(1) The Authority must open and maintain one or more
accounts with such bank or banks as the Authority thinks fit.

 (2) Every account mentioned in subsection (1) may only be
operated by a person who is authorised to do so by the Authority.

 50. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

 51. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Power of investment

 52. The Authority may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Issue of shares, etc.

 53. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, right or liability in the
            Authority under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Authority in accordance with any
            other written law,

the Authority must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

Borrowing power

 54.—(1) The Authority cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the
Authority except in accordance with this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            32

(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Authority may raise loans by —

(a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
     security;

(b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
     in the Authority or on any other revenue receivable by the
     Authority under this Act or any other written law; or

          (c) the creation and issue of debentures or bonds, or such other
              instrument as the Minister may approve.

(3) The Authority may raise loans under subsection (2) —

(a) from the Government; or

(b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
     whether in or outside Singapore.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to enter into any financial agreement or
arrangement under which credit facilities are granted to the
Authority for the purchase of goods or services.

55. to 59. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 7

        COMPETITION AND CONSUMER PROTECTION

Interpretation of this Part

 59.—(1) In this Part —

      “30% controller”, in relation to a regulated person or an
         independent entity mentioned in section 69A, means a person
         who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

              (a) holds 30% or more of the total equity interests in the
                   regulated person or independent entity; or

              (b) is in a position to control 30% or more of the voting
                   power in the regulated person or independent entity;

      “business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
         Business Trusts Act 2004;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

33  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “designated media licensee” means a media licensee —

    (a) that is designated by the Authority to be a media
         licensee for the purposes of this Part; or

    (b) that is within a class of media licensees designated by
         the Authority to be a class of media licensees for the
         purposes of this Part,

    and the designation must be notified in the Gazette;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “effective control”, in relation to a regulated person or an
       independent entity mentioned in section 69A, means the
       ability to cause the regulated person or independent entity to
       take, or to refrain from taking, a major decision regarding the
       management or operations of the regulated person or
       independent entity;

    “entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
       or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate,
       and includes a trust;

    “equity interest” means —

    (a) in relation to a corporation — a voting share in that
         corporation;

    (b) in relation to a business trust — a unit in that business
         trust; and

    (c) in relation to any other entity other than a corporation
        or business trust — any right or interest, whether
        legal or equitable, in that entity, by whatever name
        called, which gives the holder of that right or interest
        voting power in that entity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            34

“media licensee” means —

          (a) a person to whom a permit is granted under
               section 21, 22 or 23 of the Newspaper and Printing
               Presses Act 1974;

          (b) a holder of a broadcasting licence granted under
               section 8 or 9 of the Broadcasting Act 1994; or

          (c) a holder of a licence granted under section 7 of the
              Films Act 1981;

“Official Receiver” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

“regulated person” means —

          (a) a corporation which publishes a newspaper, the
               publication of which is authorised under a
               newspaper permit, including a newspaper company;
               or

          (b) the holder of a broadcasting licence or an entity
               whose business is regulated by a broadcasting
               licence, including a trust,

          that is specified by the Minister, by notification in the
          Gazette, to be a regulated person;

“related corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of
   the Companies Act 1967;

“share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
   Act 1967;

“subscriber” means an end-user that subscribes to a media
   service from a media licensee;

“treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“trustee-manager” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Business Trusts Act 2004;

“unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
   Act 2004;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

35  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    “unitholder” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business
       Trusts Act 2004;

    “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967.

 (2) For the purposes of this Part, in relation to a regulated person
which is a corporation the whole or any portion of the share capital of
which consists of stock, an interest of a person in any such stock is
deemed to be an interest in an issued share in the regulated person
having the same nominal amount as the amount of that stock and
having attached to it the same rights as are attached to that stock.

 (3) For the purposes of this Part, a reference to control of a
percentage of the voting power in a regulated person is a reference to
control of that percentage of the total number of votes that may be
cast in —

    (a) a general meeting of the regulated person;

    (b) in the case of a regulated person that is a business trust — a
         general meeting of the unitholders of the business trust; or

    (c) in the case of a regulated person that is a trust other than a
        business trust — a general meeting of the beneficiaries of
        the trust in question.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), any control of any voting
power by a person in a regulated person is not to be regarded as
control of voting power by the person if it is exercisable in the
following capacities of the person:

    (a) by virtue of the person holding an equity interest in the
         regulated person as a bare trustee;

    (b) if the person’s ordinary business includes the lending of
         money, by virtue of the person holding an equity interest in
         the regulated person only by way of security for the
         purposes of a transaction entered into in the ordinary
         course of business in connection with the lending of
         money;

    (c) if the person’s ordinary business includes the underwriting
        of securities, by virtue of the person holding an equity

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                    Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            36

          interest in the regulated person only as an underwriter or a
          sub‑underwriter to any offering of equity interests in the
          regulated person;

(d) by virtue of the person having been appointed a proxy or
     representative to vote at a general meeting mentioned in
     subsection (3);

          (e) in the person’s capacity as a liquidator, the Official
              Receiver, the Official Assignee or the Public Trustee;

          (f) by reason of the person holding such other office as may be
              prescribed for the purposes of section 7(9)(c) of the
              Companies Act 1967.

(5) In this Part —

(a) a reference to the business of an entity that is a business
     trust means the business carried on by the trustee-manager
     of the business trust on behalf of the business trust; and

(b) a reference to the business of an entity that is a trust (other
     than a business trust) means the business carried on by the
     trustee of the trust on behalf of the trust.

                    [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Application of this Part

 60.—(1) This Part applies to markets connected with the provision
of media services.

 (2) This Part does not affect the operation of, or the exercise of any
power by any person under, any other Act.

What holding an equity interest means

 60A.—(1) A person holds an equity interest under this Part if the
person —

       (a) has or is deemed to have an equity interest in accordance
            with subsection (2); or

       (b) otherwise has a legal or equitable interest in that equity
            interest,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

37  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

except for any interest that is to be disregarded under subsection (3)
or prescribed as an interest that is to be disregarded.

 (2) A person is deemed to have an equity interest in an entity if that
person —

    (a) has entered into a contract to purchase the equity interest;
         or

    (b) is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of a right
         attached to the equity interest, otherwise than by reason of
         the person having been appointed a proxy or representative
         to vote at —

    (i) a general meeting of the entity;

    (ii) in the case of an entity that is a business trust — a
         general meeting of the unitholders of the business
         trust; or

    (iii) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a
          business trust — a general meeting of the
          beneficiaries of the trust in question.

 (3) For the purposes of construing an equity interest in this section,
the following interests are disregarded:

    (a) an equity interest of a person who holds the equity interest
         as a bare trustee;

    (b) an equity interest of a person whose ordinary business
         includes the lending of money, if the person holds the
         equity interest only by way of security for the purposes of a
         transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business
         in connection with the lending of money;

    (c) an equity interest of a person whose ordinary business
        includes the underwriting of securities, if the person holds
        the equity interest only as an underwriter or a
        sub‑underwriter to any offering of equity interest of an
        entity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            38

(d) an equity interest of a person —

          (i) in the person’s capacity as a liquidator, the Official
              Receiver, the Official Assignee or the Public Trustee;
              or

          (ii) by reason of the person holding such other office as
               may be prescribed for the purposes of section 7(9)(c)
               of the Companies Act 1967;

          (e) an interest of a corporation in its own shares purchased or
              otherwise acquired in accordance with sections 76B to 76G
              of the Companies Act 1967 (including treasury shares);

          (f) such interest in a share as may be prescribed for the
              purposes of section 7(9)(d) of the Companies Act 1967,
              being an interest of such person, or of a person included in
              such class of persons, as may be prescribed for the
              purposes of that provision.

 (4) Where the interest relates to an interest in a share, section 7(7),
(8) and (10) of the Companies Act 1967 applies in determining
whether a person has an equity interest for the purposes of
subsections (2) and (3).

 (5) Regulations made under section 81 may further provide that any
other equity interest is to be disregarded for the purposes of this
section.

                                      [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Meaning of “associate”

 60B. In this Part, a person (A) is an associate of another person (B)
if —

       (a) A is the spouse, or a parent, step-parent or remoter lineal
            ancestor, or a child, step-child or remoter issue, or a sibling
            or step-sibling of B;

       (b) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
            an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
            accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
            B or, where B is a corporation, of the directors of B;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

39  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (c) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
        an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
        accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
        A or, where A is a corporation, of the directors of A;

    (d) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of B or, where B is a
         corporation, of the directors of B;

    (e) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
        whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
        directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
        corporation, of the directors of A;

    (f) A is a related corporation of B or B is a related corporation
        of A;

    (g) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other
         associates of B as described in paragraphs (b) to (f), is in a
         position to control not less than 12% of the voting power
         in A;

    (h) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with other
         associates of A as described in paragraphs (b) to (f), is in a
         position to control not less than 12% of the voting power
         in B;

    (i) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
        arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
        express or implied, to act together with respect to the
        acquisition, holding or disposal of shares, units or other
        equity interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
        voting power in relation to, a regulated person;

    (j) A is related to B in such other manner as may be prescribed.

    [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Codes of practice, etc.

 61.—(1) The Authority may —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice, standards of
            performance or advisory guidelines; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            40

(b) approve, as a code of practice or standard of performance,
     any document prepared by a person other than the
     Authority, if the Authority considers the document to be
     suitable,

for all or any of the purposes set out in subsection (1A).

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (1A) The purposes of each code of practice, standard of
performance or advisory guideline are the following:

(a) to enable and maintain fair and efficient market conduct in
     the media industry in Singapore;

(b) to safeguard the interests of consumers of media services
     and of the public generally in relation to the provision of
     media services;

          (c) to provide guidance in relation to the operation or
              administration of any provision of this Part;

(d) generally for carrying out the purposes of this Part.

                                                                             [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), a code of practice may —

 (a) specify the obligations of a person in relation to the
      person’s business operations in the media industry;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

(aa) specify the rules and procedures that must be complied
      with by —

          (i) each regulated person;

          (ii) each person who holds any equity interest, or
               controls any voting power, in a regulated person;

          (iii) each person who acquires any business of a regulated
                person that is conducted pursuant to a broadcasting
                licence or newspaper permit, or any part of any such
                business, as a going concern; and

          (iv) each person who obtains effective control over a
               regulated person;

                                      [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

41  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (ab) specify the terms and conditions on which the Authority
          may grant any written approval under section 65(1), (2) or
          (3); and

                                                                           [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

     (b) provide for fees or charges to be paid to the Authority in
          relation to any application or request made to the Authority
          under the code of practice.

(3) The Authority may, at any time —

       (a) vary a code of practice or standard of performance,
            including by adding anything to the code of practice or
            standard of performance, with respect to any purpose
            specified in subsection (1A); or

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

       (b) revoke a code of practice or standard of performance.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (4) Upon issuing a code of practice or standard of performance
under subsection (1), or varying or revoking a code of practice or
standard of performance under subsection (3), the Authority must —

    (a) publish the code or standard, or any variation or revocation
         of the code or standard, in a manner that will secure
         adequate publicity for the code or standard;

    (b) specify in the publication the date on which the code or
         standard, or any variation or revocation of the code or
         standard, takes effect; and

    (c) ensure that the code or standard (including any variation of
        the code or standard) remains available to the public for
        access and inspection without charge.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (5) The issue, variation or revocation of a code or standard does not
have force or effect until the code or standard, or the variation or
revocation of the code or standard, as the case may be, is published in
accordance with subsection (4)(a) and (b).

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            42

 (6) If any provision of a code of practice or standard of performance
is inconsistent with this Act or any other Act administered by the
Authority, that provision —

(a) has effect subject to this Act or that other Act; or

      (b) having regard to this Act or that other Act, does not have
           effect.

                                                                             [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

(7) Subject to subsection (8) —

       (a) every regulated person must comply with a code of
            practice or standard of performance (or any part of the
            code or standard) applicable to that regulated person; and

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

       (b) every person who is an owner or a controller of an essential
            resource must comply with a code of practice or standard
            of performance (or any part of the code or standard)
            applicable to that person.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (8) The Authority may, either generally or for such time as the
Authority may specify, waive the application of any code of practice
or standard of performance (or any part of the code or standard) to any
person or class of persons.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (9) A code of practice or standard of performance issued under this
section is deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Directions affecting regulated persons and owners or
controllers of essential resources

 61A.—(1) For the purposes of maintaining fair and efficient market
conduct and effective competition in the media industry in Singapore,
or safeguarding consumers’ interests by promoting fair, transparent
and reliable provision of media services, the Authority may issue
directions to an owner or a controller of an essential resource with
respect to the use or sharing of essential resources, or to a regulated
person —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

43  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (a) to ensure fair and efficient market conduct by the regulated
         person;

    (b) to ensure the coordination and cooperation, on such terms
         as the Authority may specify, with any other person in the
         use or sharing of —

    (i) any media resource owned or controlled by the
        regulated person that is used or intended to be used in
        connection with the provision of any media service
        in Singapore conducted pursuant to a broadcasting
        licence or newspaper permit; or

    (ii) any essential resources; or

    (c) in the public interest.

(2) A direction under subsection (1) —

    (a) may require the person concerned (according to the
         circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from
         doing, such things as are specified in the direction, or as are
         of a description specified in the direction; and

    (b) takes effect at such time (being the earliest practicable
         time) as is determined by or under that direction.

 (3) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of the direction.

 (4) Before issuing the direction to a person, the Authority must,
unless the Authority in respect of any particular direction considers
that it is not practicable or desirable, give written notice —

    (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make the direction
         and setting out its effect; and

    (b) specifying the time within which representations or
         objections to the proposed direction may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made.

 (5) Every person must comply with every direction of the Authority
given to the person under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            44

 (6) A reference in this section to the issuing of a direction includes a
varying of that direction.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
competition

 62.—(1) This section applies to an agreement, a decision or a
concerted practice that is, or intended to be, implemented in
Singapore before, on or after 1 October 2016.

 (2) A regulated person must not execute or engage in any
agreement, decision or concerted practice —

       (a) that is of a nature specified by the Authority in a code of
            practice; and

       (b) that has, as its object or effect, the prevention, restriction or
            distortion of competition in any market (or any part of it)
            connected to the provision of media services in Singapore.

 (3) Any provision of any agreement or decision which is prohibited
by subsection (2), is void to the extent that it infringes that subsection.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Abuse of dominant position

 63.—(1) Any conduct on the part of one or more regulated persons
that —

       (a) amounts to an abuse of dominant position in any market (or
            any part of it) connected to the provision of media services
            in Singapore conducted pursuant to a broadcasting licence
            or newspaper permit; and

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

       (b) may, as a result, affect the media industry in Singapore,

is prohibited.

 (2) A regulated person is in a dominant position in a market (or any
part of it) connected to the provision of media services in Singapore
conducted pursuant to a broadcasting licence or newspaper permit
when, in the opinion of the Authority, that regulated person is able to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

45  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

act without significant competitive restraint from its competitors in
that market.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (3) For the purposes of this section, the Authority —

    (a) may specify in a code of practice matters that would be
         relevant to the Authority’s consideration of whether a
         regulated person is in a dominant position in a market (or
         any part of it) connected to the provision of media services
         in Singapore conducted pursuant to a broadcasting licence
         or newspaper permit; and

                                                                        [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    (b) may specify, in a manner as will secure adequate publicity
         or notice, the regulated persons whom the Authority
         considers to have a dominant or non‑dominant position in a
         market (or any part of it) connected to the provision of
         media services in Singapore conducted pursuant to a
         broadcasting licence or newspaper permit.

                                                                        [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Exemption

 64.—(1) The Authority may exempt any person, agreement,
decision, concerted practice or conduct from section 62(2) or 63(1).

 (2) An exemption under subsection (1) —

       (a) may be granted subject to any conditions that the Authority
            considers appropriate;

       (b) has effect for any period that the Authority considers
            appropriate; and

       (c) must be in writing and sent by the Authority to the person
            to whom the exemption applies.

 (3) If the Authority refuses an application for an exemption from
section 62(2) or 63(1), the Authority must give written notice of the
refusal to the applicant.

 (4) An exemption under subsection (1), unless previously revoked
in accordance with the conditions of the exemption or under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            46

subsection (5), continues in force for the period specified in the
exemption.

(5) The Authority may —

(a) extend the period for which an exemption granted under
     subsection (1) has effect;

(b) vary or delete any condition specified in the exemption;

          (c) impose one or more additional conditions on the
              exemption; or

(d) revoke the exemption.

 (6) An exemption under this section need not be published in the
Gazette.

Control of equity interests and voting power in regulated
person

 65.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), a person must not, without
obtaining the prior written approval of the Authority to do so,
become, whether through a series of transactions over a period of
time or otherwise, a 30% controller of a regulated person.

 (2) Subject to subsection (5), a person must not, without obtaining
the prior written approval of the Authority to do so, acquire any
business of a regulated person that is conducted pursuant to a
broadcasting licence or newspaper permit, or any part of any such
business, as a going concern.

 (3) Subject to subsection (5), a person must not, without obtaining
the prior written approval of the Authority to do so, obtain effective
control over a regulated person.

 (4) An application for the written approval of the Authority under
subsection (1), (2) or (3) —

       (a) must be made in such form and manner as the Authority
            may determine; and

       (b) must be supported by such information as the Authority
            may require.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

47  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person may, without obtaining the prior written approval of
the Authority to do so, do any thing mentioned in subsection (1), (2)
or (3), if the doing of that thing occurs by virtue only of any
transaction prescribed for the purposes of this subsection.

 (6) A regulated person, the trustee-manager of a regulated person
which is a business trust, or the trustee of a regulated person which is
a trust (other than a business trust), must give written notice to the
Authority, within 7 days after first becoming aware of the event, in
the event that any person, by virtue only of any transaction prescribed
for the purposes of subsection (5) —

    (a) becomes, whether through a series of transactions over a
         period of time or otherwise, a 30% controller of the
         regulated person;

    (b) acquires any business of the regulated person that is
         conducted pursuant to a broadcasting licence or newspaper
         permit, or any part of any such business, as a going
         concern; or

    (c) obtains effective control over the regulated person.

 (7) If a person contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3), or any
condition imposed by the Authority when granting approval under
any of these provisions, the Authority may issue a direction to the
person under section 65A.

 (8) Any trustee-manager of a regulated person which is a business
trust, or trustee of a regulated person which is a trust (other than a
business trust), which contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

 (9) Subsection (8) does not apply to a trustee-manager or trustee of
the business trust or trust being regulated where the regulated person
is the trustee-manager or trustee.

    [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            48

Power to issue directions relating to control of regulated
persons

 65A.—(1) Without limiting section 66, the Authority may issue a
direction under this section if —

(a) a person (called in this section the specified person) —

          (i) becomes or is a 30% controller of a regulated person;

          (ii) acquires or owns any business that is conducted
               pursuant to a broadcasting licence or newspaper
               permit, or any part of any such business, as a going
               concern; or

          (iii) obtains or has effective control over a regulated
                person; and

(b) the Authority is satisfied that —

          (i) the specified person has contravened section 65(1),
              (2) or (3) or any condition imposed by the Authority
              when granting written approval under any of those
              provisions;

          (ii) the specified person has provided false or misleading
               information or documents in connection with the
               person’s application for written approval under
               section 65(1), (2) or (3);

          (iii) the Authority would not have granted its written
                approval under section 65(1), (2) or (3) had it been
                aware, at the time the approval was granted, of any
                matter relevant to the specified person’s application
                for such approval; or

          (iv) the applicable matter mentioned in paragraph (a)(i),
               (ii) or (iii) is likely to substantially lessen
               competition or is against the public interest.

(2) The directions the Authority may issue are as follows:

(a) direct the regulated person to do all or any of the following:

          (i) to restrict the exercise of all or any of the voting
              rights in respect of the equity interests which the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

49  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    specified person holds, or which the specified person
    and the specified person’s associates together hold,
    in the regulated person (called in this section the
    specified equity interests), or to restrict the exercise
    of the voting power which the specified person
    controls, or which the specified person and the
    specified person’s associates together control, in the
    regulated person, unless the Authority expressly
    permits such rights or power to be exercised;

    (ii) to restrict the issuance or offer of equity interests in
         the regulated person (whether by way of rights,
         bonus or otherwise) in respect of the specified equity
         interests, unless the Authority expressly permits such
         issue or offer;

    (iii) except in a liquidation or winding up of the regulated
          person, to restrict the payment of any amount
          (whether by way of dividends, profits, income or
          otherwise) in respect of the specified equity interests,
          unless the Authority expressly authorises such
          payment subject to such conditions as the
          Authority may specify;

    (b) direct the specified person, or any associate of the specified
         person, to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the
         specified equity interests within the time that the Authority
         may determine and subject to any conditions as the
         Authority considers appropriate;

    (c) direct the specified person to transfer or dispose of all or
        any part of the business or part thereof that is conducted
        pursuant to a broadcasting licence or a newspaper permit,
        and that was acquired from the regulated person as a going
        concern, within the time that the Authority may determine
        and subject to such conditions as the Authority considers
        appropriate;

    (d) direct the specified person to relinquish effective control
         over the regulated person within the time that the Authority

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            50

          may determine and subject to such conditions as the
          Authority considers appropriate.

 (3) Before issuing a direction to any person under subsection (2),
the Authority must, unless the Authority decides that it is not
practicable or desirable to do so, cause to be given to that person
written notice of the Authority’s intention to issue the direction,
specifying a date by which that person may make written
representations to the Authority with regard to the proposed direction.

 (4) Upon receipt of any written representations mentioned in
subsection (3), the Authority must consider them for the purpose of
determining whether to issue the direction.

 (5) Any person to whom the direction is issued must comply with
the direction.

 (6) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of any direction issued under this section.

(7) The direction issued to a person has effect, despite —

(a) the Business Trusts Act 2004, the Companies Act 1967, the
     Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005, the Trustees Act
     1967 and the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018;

(b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
     the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

          (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
              association, trust deed, partnership agreement, limited
              liability partnership agreement, or other constitution or
              equivalent instrument, of the regulated person.

 (8) Without affecting subsection (7), where any direction is issued
under subsection (2)(a), unless the direction is suspended or
revoked —

(a) the voting rights in respect of the specified equity interests,
     and the voting power which the specified person controls,
     or which the specified person and the specified person’s
     associates together control, in the regulated person, are not
     exercisable unless the Authority expressly permits such
     rights or power to be exercised;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

51  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (b) no equity interests in the regulated person are to be issued
         or offered (whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise)
         in respect of the specified equity interests, unless the
         Authority expressly permits such issue or offer; and

    (c) except in a liquidation or winding up of the regulated
        person, no amount is to be paid (whether by way of
        dividends, profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the
        specified equity interests, unless the Authority expressly
        authorises such payment.

 (9) Any person who contravenes subsection (5) in respect of a
direction issued under subsection (2)(b), (c) or (d) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
         years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
         a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part
         of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

 (10) A reference in this section to the issuing of a direction includes
a varying of that direction.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Power of Authority to obtain information relating to control of
regulated persons

 65B.—(1) Without affecting sections 66 and 70, the Authority may,
by written notice —

       (a) direct a regulated person to obtain from a holder of equity
            interests in the regulated person, and to provide to the
            Authority within such time as may be specified in the
            notice, any information relating to the holder that may be
            required to ascertain or investigate any holding of equity

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            52

          interests or control of voting power in the regulated person
          for the purposes of this Part; and

(b) direct any person to provide to the Authority, within such
     time as may be specified in the notice, any information
     required to ascertain or investigate any holding of equity
     interests or control of voting power in a regulated person
     for the purposes of this Part.

(2) Any person who —

(a) fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1); or

(b) in purported compliance with a notice under
     subsection (1), knowingly or recklessly makes a
     statement which is false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

          (c) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
              $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
              years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
              a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part
              of a day during which the offence continues after
              conviction; or

(d) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

                      [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Power of Authority in relation to alternative dispute resolution
scheme

 65C.—(1) The Authority may establish or approve one or more
dispute resolution schemes for the resolution of disputes between
subscribers and designated media licensees, arising from or relating
to the provision of media services by the designated media licensees
to the subscribers.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (2) Every designated media licensee must participate in a dispute
resolution scheme mentioned in subsection (1) and comply with such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

53  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

terms and conditions of participation in the scheme as may be
prescribed.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (3) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section affects the operation of
the Consumer Protection (Fair Trading) Act 2003.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations under section 81 to provide for matters relating to the
operations of an operator of a dispute resolution scheme mentioned in
subsection (1), including —

    (a) the standards or requirements of the services provided
         under the dispute resolution scheme;

    (b) the fees that the operator may charge for the services
         provided under the dispute resolution scheme;

    (c) the records that the operator must keep and the period of
        retention of such records;

    (d) the reports that the operator must submit to the Authority,
         and the manner and time for such submission;

    (e) matters relating to the administration of the dispute
        resolution scheme; and

      (f) generally for giving effect to or for carrying out the
           purposes of this section.

                                                                                                         [30/2016]

(5) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Written orders and financial penalties

 66.—(1) The Authority may issue written orders to a regulated
person, a designated media licensee, or the owner or controller of an
essential resource, with respect to any provision of this Part, any
direction issued under this Part or any provision of a code of practice
or standard of performance that applies to that person, licensee,
owner or controller.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            54

 (2) Where the Authority is satisfied that a regulated person, a
designated media licensee, or the owner or controller of an essential
resource, is infringing, likely to infringe or has infringed any
provision of this Part, any direction issued under this Part or any
provision of any code of practice or standard of performance, that
applies to that person, licensee, owner or controller, the Authority’s
written order under subsection (1) may include one or more of the
following:

(a) requiring that person, licensee, owner or controller to
     comply with that provision or direction or cease infringing
     that provision or direction;

                                                                    [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

(b) specifying any procedure or action to be observed or taken
     by that person, licensee, owner or controller;

          (c) imposing any restriction on the activities of that person,
              licensee, owner or controller;

(d) requiring that person, licensee, owner or controller to
     modify or terminate any agreement, decision or concerted
     practice;

       (e) requiring that person, licensee, owner or controller to
            modify or cease any conduct.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (3) Where the Authority is satisfied that a regulated person, a
designated media licensee, or the owner or controller of an essential
resource, has infringed any provision of this Part, any direction issued
under this Part or any provision of a code of practice or standard of
performance, that applies to that person, licensee, owner or controller,
the Authority may, in addition to or instead of a written order
described in subsection (2), require that person, licensee, owner or
controller to pay a financial penalty of an amount not exceeding the
higher of the following amounts:

(a) 10% of the annual turnover of that part of the business of
     that person, licensee, owner or controller in respect of
     which the infringement occurred, as ascertained from the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

55  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    latest audited accounts of that person, licensee, owner or
    controller;

    (b) $1 million.

                                                              [30/2016]

                     [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (4) Before issuing a written order to, or imposing a financial
penalty on, a regulated person, a designated media licensee, or the
owner or controller of an essential resource, under this section, the
Authority must, unless the Authority considers that it is not
practicable or desirable to do so in any particular case, give notice
to that person, licensee, owner or controller of —

       (a) the Authority’s intention to issue the written order
            (including its effect) or impose the financial penalty; and

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

       (b) the time within which written representations may be made
            to the Authority with respect to the proposed written order
            or financial penalty.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (5) The Authority may, by written notice to a regulated person, a
designated media licensee, or the owner or controller of an essential
resource, issue such written order or impose such financial penalty, as
the Authority considers appropriate —

    (a) where written representation is made by that person,
         licensee, owner or controller in accordance with
         subsection (4) — after considering that representation; or

       (b) where no written representation is made — after the time
            mentioned in subsection (4)(b) lapses.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (6) Subject to section 68(6), a written order or a requirement to pay
a financial penalty under this section takes effect at such time (after
service of the notice under subsection (5)) as the Authority specifies
in that notice.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            56

 (7) The Authority may, at any time, suspend or revoke a written
order (or any part of it) given under this section.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (8) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any written order issued under this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (9) A reference in this section to the issuing of a written order
includes a reference to the varying of that written order.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

 (10) [Deleted by Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

          [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Dispute resolution

 67.—(1) A code of practice may provide for the resolution of any
dispute between private persons (whether regulated persons or
otherwise) in respect of any provision of the code of practice.

 (2) The Authority may determine the dispute if —

       (a) the code of practice provides for the Authority’s
            determination of the dispute; and

       (b) a party to the dispute applies to the Authority for its
            determination.

 (3) The Authority must deal with and determine the dispute in
accordance with the procedures and powers specified in the code of
practice.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not apply to disputes between
subscribers and designated media licensees, arising from or relating
to the provision of media services by the designated media licensees
to the subscribers.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

57  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Reconsideration by Authority

 67A.—(1) A request may be filed by the following persons to the
Authority for reconsideration (called in this section a reconsideration
request) in any of the following circumstances:

    (a) by a regulated person, designated media licensee, or owner
         or controller of an essential resource, who is aggrieved
         by —

    (i) a direction or decision of the Authority in the
        exercise of discretion vested in it under this Part;

    (ii) anything contained in a direction or written order
         issued under this Part; or

    (iii) anything contained in a code of practice or standard
          of performance issued or approved under this Part;

    (b) by any other person (not being a regulated person,
         designated media licensee, or owner or controller of an
         essential resource) who is aggrieved by —

    (i) a decision of the Authority under section 65(1), (2)
        or (3);

    (ii) a direction or decision of the Authority under
         section 65A or 65B;

    (iii) any decision of the Authority under section 64;

    (iv) anything contained in a code of practice or standard
         of performance issued or approved under section 61
         (insofar as it relates to matters that are necessary for
         the purposes of section 65, 65A or 65B or for the due
         administration of these provisions); or

    (v) anything contained in a code of practice mentioned
         in section 67(1).

 (2) A reconsideration request must be filed within 14 days of the
receipt of the decision, direction or written order of the Authority, or
the issue or approval of the code of practice or standard of
performance, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
             Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.     Development Authority Act 2016                         58

 (3) A person must not make both a reconsideration request to the
Authority and an appeal to the Minister under section 68 in respect of
the same decision, direction or written order of the Authority, or thing
contained in a code of practice or standard of performance.

 (4) Where a reconsideration request and an appeal have been made
in contravention of subsection (3), the appeal to the Minister is
deemed to be withdrawn.

(5) Where —

(a) a reconsideration request has been made to the Authority
     by any person; and

(b) an appeal in respect of the same decision, direction or
     written order of the Authority, or thing contained in a code
     of practice or standard of performance, is made or has been
     made to the Minister by any other person,

the appeal to the Minister is deemed to be withdrawn.

 (6) The Authority may determine any reconsideration request under
this section by confirming, varying or reversing any decision,
direction or written order, or by amending any code of practice or
standard of performance.

 (7) Unless otherwise provided, where a reconsideration request is
made under this section, the decision, direction, written order, code of
practice, standard of performance, or other matter which requires
reconsideration by the Authority must be complied with until the
determination of the reconsideration request.

             [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Appeals to Minister

 68.—(1) An appeal may be filed in any of the following
circumstances by the following persons to the Minister against a
decision, direction or written order of the Authority under this Part, or
thing contained in a code of practice or standard of performance
(called in this section the Authority’s decision):

       (a) a regulated person, designated media licensee, or owner or
            controller of an essential resource, who is aggrieved by —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

59  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (i) a direction or decision of the Authority in the
        exercise of discretion vested in it under this Part;

    (ii) anything contained in a direction or written order
         issued under this Part; or

    (iii) anything contained in a code of practice or standard
          of performance issued or approved under this Part;

    (b) any other person (not being a regulated person, designated
         media licensee, or owner or controller of an essential
         resource) who is aggrieved by —

    (i) a decision of the Authority under section 65(1), (2)
        or (3);

    (ii) a direction or decision of the Authority under
         section 65A or 65B;

    (iii) any decision of the Authority under section 64;

    (iv) anything contained in a code of practice or standard
         of performance issued or approved under section 61
         (insofar as it relates to matters that are necessary for
         the purposes of section 65, 65A or 65B or for the due
         administration of these provisions); or

    (v) anything contained in a code of practice mentioned
         in section 67(1).

 (2) Where there has been a reconsideration under section 67A in
respect of the Authority’s decision, the appeal must be made only in
respect of the reconsidered decision, direction, written order, code of
practice or standard of performance.

(3) An appeal under this section —

    (a) must be in writing;

    (b) must specify the grounds on which it is made and state as
         concisely as possible the circumstances under which the
         appeal arises, and the issues and grounds for the appeal;

    (c) must contain all relevant facts, evidence and arguments for
        the appeal; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            60

(d) must be made within 14 days after the appellant is notified
     of the Authority’s decision or such longer period as the
     Minister may allow in the appellant’s case.

(4) The Minister may require —

(a) any party to the appeal; or

(b) any person who is not a party to the appeal but appears to
     the Minister to have any information or document that is
     relevant to the appeal,

to provide the Minister with such information or document as the
Minister may require for the purpose of considering and determining
the appeal, and any person so required to provide the information or
document must provide it in such manner and within such period as
may be specified by the Minister.

 (5) The Minister may reject the appeal if the appellant does not
comply with subsection (3) or (4).

 (6) The appeal does not affect the operation of the Authority’s
decision or prevent the taking of any action to implement the
Authority’s decision unless otherwise provided in this Part or directed
by the Minister in any particular case.

 (7) The Minister may determine the appeal by confirming, varying
or reversing the Authority’s decision, including by amending any
code of practice or standard of performance, and the decision of the
Minister is final.

 (8) Where an appeal is made under this section, the Authority’s
decision must be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

 (9) The Minister may make regulations in respect of the manner in
which an appeal may be made to the Minister under this section and
the procedure to be adopted in hearing such appeals.

                                 [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Power to disclose confidential information

 69.—(1) The Authority may disclose any information obtained by
the Authority under this Act for the purposes of enabling the
Authority to give effect to any provision of this Part.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

61  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

 (2) When considering whether to disclose any information under
subsection (1), the Authority must have regard to —

    (a) the need for excluding, so far as is practicable, information
         the disclosure of which would in the Authority’s opinion be
         contrary to the public interest;

    (b) the need for excluding, so far as is practicable —

    (i) commercial information the disclosure of which
        would, or might, in the Authority’s opinion,
        significantly harm the legitimate business interests
        of the undertaking to which it relates; or

    (ii) information relating to the private affairs of an
         individual the disclosure of which would, or might,
         in the Authority’s opinion, significantly harm the
         individual’s interest; and

    (c) the extent to which the disclosure is necessary for the
        purposes for which the Authority is proposing to make the
        disclosure.

Power of Minister to issue separation order

 69A.—(1) The Minister may issue a written order (called in this
section a separation order) to a regulated person (called in this section
the relevant regulated person), if —

       (a) either of the following applies:

               (i) the relevant regulated person owns or controls any
                   media resource used in connection with the provision
                   of any media service pursuant to a broadcasting
                   licence or newspaper permit (called in this section
                   the relevant media service) in Singapore that is so
                   costly or difficult to replicate that a requirement to do
                   so would create a significant barrier to rapid and
                   successful entry into the market for relevant media
                   services in Singapore by an efficient competitor of
                   the relevant regulated person;

              (ii) the relevant regulated person has the ability to
                   exercise significant market power in any market

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            62

          for relevant media services in Singapore, and both of
          the following apply:

          (A) the relevant media service provided by the
               relevant regulated person in that market is
               required by one or more persons for the
               provision of relevant media services in
               Singapore on a competitive basis;

          (B) it is so costly or difficult to provide the relevant
               media services that a requirement to do so
               would create a significant barrier to the
               provision of relevant media services in
               Singapore on a competitive basis by an
               efficient competitor of the relevant regulated
               person;

(b) the Minister is satisfied that the actions that the Authority
     has taken in the exercise of its powers under this Act have
     failed, and that any other actions that the Authority may
     take in the exercise of those powers are likely to fail, to
     enable an efficient competitor of the relevant regulated
     person to achieve —

          (i) where paragraph (a)(i) applies, rapid and successful
              entry into the market for relevant media services in
              Singapore; or

          (ii) where paragraph (a)(ii) applies, the provision of
               relevant media services in Singapore on a
               competitive basis; and

          (c) the Minister is satisfied that it is in the public interest to
              issue the separation order.

 (2) In deciding whether it is in the public interest to issue the
separation order, the Minister must have regard to whether the issue
of the separation order is necessary or desirable for one or more of the
following purposes:

(a) to promote and maintain fair and efficient market conduct
     and effective competition between persons engaged in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

63  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    commercial activities connected with media resources and
    relevant media services in Singapore;

    (b) to promote the efficiency and international
         competitiveness of the media industry in Singapore;

    (c) to eliminate or reduce barriers to competition arising from
        the ownership or control of any media resources, or the
        possession of significant market power, by the relevant
        regulated person;

    (d) to promote transparency, non-discrimination and
         equivalence of supply in relation to the provision of
         relevant media services in Singapore.

(3) The separation order may —

    (a) direct the relevant regulated person to transfer to a separate
         entity (that need not be an independent entity) or an
         independent entity either or both of the following:

    (i) the whole or any part of any business of the relevant
        regulated person for the provision of relevant media
        services;

    (ii) the whole or any part of any property of the relevant
         regulated person that is used by it to provide any
         relevant media services, and any rights, obligations
         and liabilities relating to that property;

    (b) for the purposes of paragraph (a), direct the relevant
         regulated person —

    (i) to establish a separate entity; and

    (ii) to ensure that the separate entity (or the proprietor or
         chief editor of the newspaper to be published by the
         separate entity, as the case may be) applies for a
         broadcasting licence or newspaper permit; and

    (c) contain any other directions that the Minister considers
        appropriate, including (but not limited to) directions
        relating to all or any of the following matters:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            64

          (i) the types of transactions, dealings, arrangements and
              relationships that the relevant regulated person may
              engage in, or is prohibited from engaging in, with the
              separate entity or independent entity;

          (ii) the measures to be implemented to ensure that the
               relevant regulated person will not obtain effective
               control over the independent entity;

          (iii) any future or contingent right or liability of the
                relevant regulated person;

          (iv) the conditions of the transfer directed under
               paragraph (a), including the payment of
               consideration by the transferee to the relevant
               regulated person;

          (v) any incidental, consequential or supplementary
               matters which, in the Minister’s opinion, are
               necessary to ensure that the transfer directed under
               paragraph (a) is effective.

 (4) In determining the directions to be included in the separation
order, the Minister must have regard to whether the directions are
proportionate, taking into account —

(a) the contestability of the relevant market for media services
     in Singapore; and

(b) the effectiveness of the directions in eliminating or
     minimising any incentive or opportunity for the relevant
     regulated person to act in a manner that prevents, restricts
     or distorts competition in the relevant market for media
     services in Singapore.

 (5) A broadcasting licence or newspaper permit granted to a
separate entity (or to the proprietor or chief editor of the newspaper to
be published by the separate entity, as the case may be) established by
a relevant regulated person may include (without affecting the power
to impose conditions conferred by section 8 of the Broadcasting Act
1994 or section 21 of the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974,
as the case may be) conditions requiring the separate entity —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

65  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (a) to operate on a stand-alone basis;

    (b) to deal at arm’s length with the relevant regulated person or
         any of its associates;

    (c) to provide to other persons any relevant media service in
        Singapore on the same terms and conditions (including in
        relation to price, service levels and time frames), and by
        means of the same systems and processes (including
        operational support processes), as it provides to the
        relevant regulated person or any of its associates; and

    (d) to do, or to refrain from doing, anything that is specified in
         the licence or permit (as the case may be) or that is of a
         description specified in the licence or permit.

(6) The separation order takes effect, despite —

    (a) the provisions of any other written law or any rule of law;
         and

    (b) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
         association, trust deed, partnership agreement, limited
         liability partnership agreement, or other constitution or
         equivalent instrument, of the relevant regulated person.

 (7) Despite any other written law or any rule of law, where the
separation order contains a direction under subsection (3)(a), on the
date appointed for the transfer of any business or property of the
relevant regulated person to a transferee —

    (a) that business or property is transferred to, and vests in, the
         transferee without any other or further assurance, act or
         deed, and the separation order has effect according to its
         tenor and is binding on any person affected by the
         separation order;

    (b) every deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement
         subsisting immediately before that date which relates to
         that business or property, and to which the relevant
         regulated person is a party, continues in full force and
         effect, and is enforceable by or against the transferee, from
         that date, as if the transferee had been named in it or had

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            66

          been a party to it instead of the relevant regulated person;
          and

          (c) any proceedings or cause of action, by or against the
              relevant regulated person, pending or existing immediately
              before that date and relating to that business or property, if
              continued, is enforceable by or against, the transferee from
              that date.

 (8) Subject to subsection (11), the Minister may award
compensation to the relevant regulated person for any damage
caused to it by reason of its compliance with the separation order.

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (8), the Minister must, within 6
months after the making of the separation order, establish by
regulations made under this section a scheme for determining the
amount of any compensation payable to the relevant regulated
person.

(10) A scheme established under subsection (9) may provide for —

(a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
     to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
     dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
     when making valuations;

(b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
     appointed by the Minister; and

          (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.

 (11) No compensation is to be awarded under subsection (8) if,
when issuing the separation order, the Minister is satisfied that the
relevant regulated person had engaged in conduct that prevents,
restricts or distorts competition in any market for media services in
Singapore, through —

(a) its control of the media resource mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a)(i); or

(b) the exercise of its market power mentioned in
     subsection (1)(a)(ii).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

67  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

 (12) Any compensation awarded by the Minister under
subsection (8) is to be charged on and paid out of the Consolidated
Fund.

 (13) Before issuing the separation order, the Minister must, unless
the Minister decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so,
cause to be given to the relevant regulated person written notice of the
Minister’s intention to issue the separation order, specifying the date
by which written representations may be made to the Minister with
regard to the proposed separation order.

 (14) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider it for the purpose of determining whether to issue the
separation order.

 (15) The Minister may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of the separation order.

 (16) The relevant regulated person and any person affected by the
separation order must comply with the separation order.

 (17) Any person who contravenes subsection (16) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
         years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
         a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or part
         of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction;

    (b) in the case of an entity which is a regulated person, to a fine
         not exceeding the higher of the following amounts:

    (i) 10% of the annual turnover of that part of its business
        in respect of which it is granted the licence or permit
        (as the case may be), as ascertained from its latest
        audited accounts; or

    (ii) $1 million,

    (b) and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            68

          (c) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
              the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
              exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
              which the offence continues after conviction.

 (18) A reference in this section to the issuing of a separation order
includes a varying of that order.

 (19) The Minister may make regulations to establish a scheme for
the determining of compensation to a relevant regulated person and
for any matter necessary or expedient for the purposes of this section.

(20) In this section —

“business” includes any business affairs, property, right,
   obligation or liability;

“consideration”, in relation to a transfer of any business or
   property of a regulated person, means the payment of
   monetary or other consideration by the transferee or any
   person on the transferee’s behalf to the regulated person for
   the transfer of the whole or any part of the business or
   property of the regulated person;

“independent entity” means an entity that —

          (a) whether alone or together with its associates, does not
               have relevant control over the relevant regulated
               person or any relevant broadcasting licensee,
               newspaper company or relevant telecommunication
               licensee; and

          (b) is not under the relevant control of —

          (i) the relevant regulated person, whether alone or
              with its associates;

          (ii) any relevant broadcasting licensee, whether
               alone or with its associates;

          (iii) any newspaper company, whether alone or with
                its associates;

          (iv) any relevant telecommunication licensee,
               whether alone or with its associates; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

69  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (v) any other entity which, whether alone or
         together with its associates, has relevant
         control over any relevant broadcasting
         licensee, newspaper company or relevant
         telecommunication licensee;

    “property” means assets of every kind, whether tangible or
       intangible, movable or immovable, however acquired, and
       includes —

    (a) any property, right or power of any description; and

    (b) in relation to a regulated person, the regulated
         person’s media resources;

    “relevant broadcasting licensee” means the holder of a
       broadcasting licence granted under section 8 of the
       Broadcasting Act 1994;

    “relevant control”, in relation to a regulated person or an
       independent entity, means —

    (a) the ability to exercise effective control over the
         regulated person or independent entity, as the case
         may be; or

    (b) such control as may be exercised over the regulated
         person or independent entity (as the case may be) by a
         30% controller of that regulated person or
         independent entity;

    “relevant telecommunication licensee” means a person who is
       granted a licence under section 5 of the Telecommunications
       Act 1999 to —

    (a) run any telecommunication system for the purpose of
         offering to other persons all or any of the following:

    (i) telecommunication switching capacity;

    (ii) telecommunication switching services;

    (iii) telecommunication transmission capacity;

    (iv) telecommunication transmission services;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            70

          (b) provide telecommunication services to third parties
               using any telecommunication system leased from
               another person described in paragraph (a) (including
               telecommunication network elements such as
               transmission capacity, switching services, ducts and
               fibre); or

          (c) resell the telecommunication services of the person
              described in paragraph (a);

“separate entity”, in relation to a regulated person, means an
   entity which is a separate legal entity from the regulated
   person, and includes any such entity the equity interests of
   which are wholly owned by the regulated person;

“significant market power” means the ability to unilaterally
   restrict output, raise prices, reduce quality or otherwise act, to
   a significant extent, independently of competitive market
   forces.

          [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

                                    PART 8

             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Powers of investigation

 70.—(1) Subject to section 73, an inspecting officer may, for the
purposes of investigating an offence under this Act or the
contravention of any provision of this Act, do all or any of the
following:

       (a) require any person whom the inspecting officer reasonably
            believes to have committed that offence or contravention
            to provide evidence of that person’s identity;

       (b) require, by written notice, any person, whom the inspecting
            officer reasonably believes has —

               (i) any information; or

              (ii) any document in the person’s custody or control,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

71  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (b) that is relevant to the investigation, to provide that
         information or document, within such time and in such
         manner as may be specified in the written notice;

    (c) require, by written notice, any person within the limits of
        Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
        circumstances of the matter, to attend before the inspecting
        officer;

    (d) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
         with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

    (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
        charged with an offence in connection with the
        matter; or

    (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
         in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
         with the matter.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any information or
document under subsection (1) includes the power —

    (a) to require that person to explain the information or
         document;

    (b) if the information or document is not provided, to require
         that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
         and belief, where the information or document is; and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require that person to produce that information in
        legible form.

 (3) A person examined under subsection (1)(d) is bound to state
truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the
matter, except that the person need not say anything that might expose
the person to a criminal charge or punishment.

 (4) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(d)
must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            72

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that the person understands; and

(d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

 (5) An inspecting officer may, without payment, take possession of
or make copies of any document (or any part of it) provided under
subsection (1), for further investigation.

Power to enter premises under warrant

 71.—(1) A Magistrate may, on the application of the Authority,
issue a warrant in respect of any premises if the Magistrate is satisfied
that there are reasonable grounds to suspect that there is on the
premises, any document —

       (a) which has been required by an inspecting officer under
            section 70 to be provided, but has not been provided in
            compliance with that requirement; or

       (b) which, if required by an inspecting officer under section 70
            to be provided, will be concealed, removed, tampered with
            or destroyed.

 (2) If the Magistrate is also satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that there is, on those premises, any other
document that relates to any matter relevant to the investigation
concerned, the Magistrate may direct that the powers exercisable
under the warrant extend to that other document.

 (3) A warrant under subsection (1) may authorise a named
inspecting officer, and any other employee of the Authority whom
the Authority has authorised in writing to accompany the inspecting
officer —

       (a) to enter and search the premises specified in the warrant,
            using such force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

       (b) subject to section 73, to take possession of, make copies of,
            or secure against interference, any document (or any part
            of it) that appears to be a document mentioned in
            subsection (1) or (2) (called in this section the relevant
            document);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

73  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (c) to require any person on the premises to explain of any
        relevant document or, where applicable, to state, to the best
        of that person’s knowledge and belief, where the relevant
        document may be found; and

    (d) subject to section 73, to require any relevant document that
         is stored in electronic form and accessible at the premises
         to be produced in a form that —

    (i) can be taken away; and

    (ii) is visible and legible.

 (4) The warrant continues in force until the end of the period of one
month beginning on the day on which it is issued.

 (5) If the owner or occupier of the premises is present when the
inspecting officer proposes to execute the warrant, the inspecting
officer must —

    (a) identify himself or herself to the owner or occupier;

    (b) show the owner or occupier proof of the inspecting
         officer’s identity and authorisation; and

    (c) give the owner or occupier a copy of the warrant.

 (6) If there is no one at the premises when the inspecting officer
proposes to execute the warrant, the inspecting officer must, before
executing it —

    (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
         inform the occupier of the premises of the intended entry
         into the premises; and

    (b) where the occupier is so informed, give the occupier or the
         occupier’s legal or other representative a reasonable
         opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (7) If the inspecting officer is unable to inform the occupier of the
premises of the intended entry into the premises, the inspecting
officer must, when executing the warrant, leave a copy of it in a
prominent place on the premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            74

(8) The inspecting officer must —

(a) prepare and sign a list of all documents and other things
     taken under subsection (3)(b) and (d) in execution of the
     warrant; and

(b) give a copy of the list to the occupier of the premises or the
     occupier’s legal or other representative.

 (9) On leaving the premises after executing the warrant, the
inspecting officer must, if the premises are unoccupied or the
occupier of the premises is temporarily absent, leave the premises as
effectively secured as the inspecting officer found them.

(10) In this section —

“occupier”, in relation to any premises specified in a warrant
   under subsection (1), means a person whom the inspecting
   officer named in the warrant reasonably believes to be the
   occupier of those premises;

“premises” includes any building, structure, vehicle, vessel or
   aircraft.

Power to obtain information for carrying out Authority’s
functions

 71A.—(1) This section applies where the Authority has reason to
believe that a media resource should be designated by the Authority
as an essential resource.

 (2) The Authority may, by notice, require any person who appears
to be the owner or controller of a media resource, to provide to the
Authority, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, such
relevant information relating to that media resource as may be
required by the Authority for the purpose of carrying out its functions
and duties under this Act.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Authority may in the notice
require the person who appears to be the owner or controller of the
media resource to provide —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

75  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (a) information relating to —

    (i) the media services that the media resource is used or
        intended to be used in connection with; and

    (ii) the person or persons who is or are, or other media
         resource or resources that is or are, served or
         intended to be served by that media resource;

    (b) information on other persons who may have an interest,
         proprietary or otherwise, in the media resource or have
         control over the use of the media resource; and

    (c) any other information that the Authority may require in
        order to carry out its functions and duties under this Act.

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with a notice issued under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (5) Any person to whom a notice is issued under subsection (2) is
not obliged to disclose any information that is subject to any right,
privilege or immunity conferred, or obligation or limitation imposed,
by or under any law in relation to the disclosure of such information.

                                   [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Retention and disposal of documents, etc.

 72.—(1) Where an inspecting officer takes possession of any
document under section 70(5) or 71(3), the Authority —

       (a) must ensure that the document is placed in safe custody;
            and

       (b) unless otherwise ordered by the Magistrate or a court, may
            retain, without payment, the document until the
            completion of the investigation or any proceedings
            (including proceedings on appeal) in which the
            document may be in evidence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            76

 (2) Any document retained by the Authority under subsection (1)
must —

(a) where the document is produced in any criminal trial, be
     dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the Criminal
     Procedure Code 2010; or

(b) in any other case, be returned to the owner or, if the owner
     is not known, reported to a Magistrate.

 (3) Where the report of any document is made to a Magistrate under
subsection (2)(b), the Magistrate may order the document to be
forfeited or to be disposed of in such manner as the Magistrate thinks
fit.

 (4) Nothing in this section prejudices any right to retain or dispose
of any property which may exist in law apart from this section.

Information or document subject to legal privilege

 73.—(1) A person is not obliged under section 70 to provide any
information or document that is subject to legal privilege.

 (2) An inspecting officer executing a warrant under section 71 is
not authorised to take possession or make copy of any document that
is subject to legal privilege.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, an information or a document is
subject to legal privilege if —

       (a) it is a communication made between a lawyer and a client
            in connection with the lawyer giving legal advice to the
            client;

       (b) it is a communication made between 2 or more lawyers
            acting for a client in connection with one or more of the
            lawyers giving legal advice to the client;

       (c) it is a communication made between a legal counsel acting
            as such and his or her employer in connection with the
            legal counsel giving legal advice to the employer;

       (d) it is a communication made between 2 or more legal
            counsel acting as such for an employer in connection with

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

77  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    one or more of the legal counsel giving legal advice to the
    employer;

    (e) it is a communication made —

    (i) between a client, or an employer of a legal counsel,
        and another person;

    (ii) between a lawyer acting for a client and either the
         client or another person; or

    (iii) between a legal counsel acting as such for his or her
          employer and either the employer or another person,

    (e) in connection with, and for the purposes of, any legal
        proceedings (including anticipated or pending legal
        proceedings) in which the client or employer (as the case
        may be) is or may be, or was or might have been, a party;

    (f) it is enclosed with or referred to in any communication
        mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) and is made or prepared
        by any person in connection with a lawyer giving advice to
        the lawyer’s client;

    (g) it is enclosed with or referred to in any communication
         mentioned in paragraph (c) or (d) and is made or prepared
         by any person in connection with a legal counsel giving
         advice to the employer of the legal counsel; or

    (h) it is enclosed with or referred to in any communication
         mentioned in paragraph (e) and is made or prepared by any
         person in connection with, and for the purposes of, any
         legal proceedings described in that paragraph,

but excludes any communication that is made, prepared or held with
the intention of furthering a criminal purpose.

(4) In this section —

    “client”, in relation to a lawyer, includes an agent of or other
       person representing the client;

    “employer”, in relation to a legal counsel, includes —

    (a) if the employer is one of a number of corporations
         that are related to each other under section 6 of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            78

          Companies Act 1967, every corporation so related as
          if the legal counsel is also employed by each of the
          related corporations; and

          (b) an employee or officer of the employer;

“lawyer” means an advocate and solicitor, and includes an
   interpreter or other person who works under the supervision
   of an advocate and solicitor;

“legal counsel” includes an interpreter or other person who
   works under the supervision of a legal counsel.

Offences relating to enforcement

 74.—(1) A person who is —

       (a) required to provide evidence of the person’s identity under
            section 70(1)(a);

       (b) issued a notice under section 70(1)(b) or (c); or

       (c) required to provide any explanation under section 71(3)(c)
            or produce any thing under section 71(3)(d),

must comply with that requirement or notice.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

False or misleading information, statement or document, etc.

 75.—(1) A person must not make any statement, or provide any
information or document, under this Act that the person knows to be
false or misleading in any material particular.

 (2) A person must not intentionally alter, suppress, dispose or
destroy any document or information which the person is required to
provide under this Act.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

79  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Penalty for obstructing or hindering Authority

76.—(1) A person must not obstruct or hinder —

    (a) the Authority or a member of the Authority;

    (b) a committee of the Authority or a committee member; or

    (c) the Chief Executive, or an employee or delegate of the
        Authority,

in the performance of any function or the exercise of any power under
this Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Composition of offences

 77.—(1) The Chief Executive, or an employee of the Authority
authorised in writing by the Authority, may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Offences by corporations

 78.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
              Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.   Development Authority Act 2016                           80

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          (ii) an individual who is involved in the management of
               the corporation and is in a position to influence the
               conduct of the corporation in relation to the
               commission of the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

81  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of the
corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether or not
the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership as defined
       in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the person’s knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or
         purpose; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 79.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
              Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.   Development Authority Act 2016                           82

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
              member of its governing body;

          (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                position to influence the conduct of the
                unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

83  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of an
unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under this
Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
       a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
       member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
       and includes —

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the person’s knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or
         purpose; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Interest on financial penalties

 79A.—(1) Any person who fails to pay a financial penalty imposed
under this Act by the date the person is required to do so under this
Act is liable to pay, after that date, interest on the amount unpaid as
may be prescribed.

 (2) The rate of interest mentioned in subsection (1) may be
prescribed in regulations by way of a formula or other method, and
for this purpose the regulations may incorporate by reference any
formula or method of another body or organisation, as may be
amended from time to time.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            84

Financial penalties and interest collected

 79B.—(1) Any financial penalty or interest on the late payment of
any financial penalty imposed under this Act or any other Act
administered by the Authority must be collected by the Authority and
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

 (2) The Authority may recover as a civil debt in a court of
competent jurisdiction any financial penalty and interest on the late
payment of any financial penalty imposed under this Act or any other
Act administered by the Authority which is due and payable but has
not been paid.

 (3) All financial penalties and interest on the late payment of
financial penalties recovered under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                            [Act 13 of 2026 wef 02/10/2026]

Service of documents

 80.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
            individual as the fax number for the service of documents
            on the individual; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

85  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
        address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
         unincorporated association’s last email address.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            86

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent; and

          (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
              after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
              undelivered).

 (6) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(7) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 81. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be
prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

87  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

                             PART 9

    TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS AND PERSONNEL
                           TO AUTHORITY

Interpretation of this Part

82. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “agreement” includes an arrangement and an undertaking;

    “asset”, in relation to a transferor, means property of any kind
       (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
       accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
       an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
       of that transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
       without limitation, any —

    (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
         whether situated in or outside Singapore;

    (b) chose in action;

    (c) money or securities;

    (d) plant and equipment, whether situated in or outside
         Singapore;

    (e) intellectual property;

    (f) infrastructure, whether situated in or outside
        Singapore; and

    (g) right;

    “Info-communications Development Authority of Singapore”
       means the Info‑communications Development Authority of
       Singapore established by section 3 of the
       Info‑communications Development Authority of Singapore
       Act (Cap. 137A, 2000 Revised Edition);

    “liability”, in relation to a transferor, means any liability, debt or
       obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
       unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly, or jointly
       and severally, with any other person) of that transferor on the
       eve of the transfer date;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            88

“MDA employee”, means an individual who, on the eve of the
   transfer date, is an employee of the Media Development
   Authority of Singapore;

“Media Development Authority of Singapore” means the Media
   Development Authority of Singapore established by section 3
   of the Media Development Authority of Singapore Act
   (Cap. 172, 2003 Revised Edition);

“Personal Data Protection Commission” means the Personal
   Data Protection Commission established by section 5(1) of
   the Personal Data Protection Act 2012 in force immediately
   before the transfer date;

“records”, in relation to a transferor, means registers, papers,
   documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
   records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of that
   transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

“right”, in relation to a transferor, means any right, power,
   privilege or immunity of that transferor on the eve of the
   transfer date;

“transfer date” means 1 October 2016;

“transferor” means —

          (a) the Info‑communications Development Authority of
               Singapore;

          (b) the Media Development Authority of Singapore; or

          (c) the Personal Data Protection Commission;

“transferring IDA employee” means an employee of the
   Info‑communications Development Authority of Singapore
   who, on the eve of the transfer date, is in the
   Info‑communications Media Development Authority
   Designate Wing of the Info‑communications Development
   Authority of Singapore;

“transferring IDA function” means the functions discharged by
   the Info‑communications Media Development Authority
   Designate Wing of the Info‑communications Development
   Authority of Singapore on the eve of the transfer date.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

89  Development Authority Act 2016                             2020 Ed.

Transfer of undertakings to Authority

83.—(1) On the transfer date —

    (a) all assets and liabilities of the Media Development
         Authority of Singapore;

    (b) all assets and liabilities of the Info‑communications
         Development Authority of Singapore to the extent that
         they relate, directly or indirectly, to the transferring IDA
         function;

    (c) all liabilities of the Info‑communications Development
        Authority of Singapore relating to the payment of benefits
        under the Pensions Act 1956 to the former employees of
        the Info‑communications Development Authority of
        Singapore (or its predecessors); and

    (d) all assets and liabilities of the Personal Data Protection
         Commission,

are transferred to the Authority.

 (2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an asset
or a liability specified in the certificate has been transferred to the
Authority under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in any
proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.

 (3) When any asset or liability of a transferor is transferred to the
Authority under subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

    (a) the asset vests in the Authority without the need for any
         further conveyance, transfer, assignment or assurance;

    (b) the liability becomes the liability of the Authority;

    (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
        liability that are pending immediately before the transfer
        date by or against that transferor (or a predecessor of that
        transferor) are taken to be proceedings pending by or
        against the Authority;

    (d) any legal or other proceedings relating to that asset or
         liability which could have been started immediately before
         the transfer date by or against that transferor (or a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            90

          predecessor of that transferor) may be started by or against
          the Authority;

          (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
              before the transfer date by or against that transferor (or a
              predecessor of that transferor) relating to that asset or
              liability becomes enforceable by or against the Authority;

          (f) any document in any legal or other proceedings relating to
              that asset or liability that has been served on or by that
              transferor (or a predecessor of that transferor) before the
              transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have been
              served on or by the Authority;

(g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
     the transfer date in relation to that asset or liability by, to or
     in respect of that transferor (or a predecessor of that
     transferor) is (to the extent to which that act, matter or
     thing has any force or effect) taken to have been done or
     omitted to be done by, to or in respect of the Authority;

(h) a reference to that transferor (or a predecessor of that
     transferor) in any Act, any instrument made under any Act,
     any agreement or any document of any kind is taken to be
     or includes (to the extent to which the reference relates to
     that asset or liability) a reference to the Authority;

          (i) any agreement relating to that asset or liability and to
              which that transferor (or a predecessor of that transferor) is
              a party becomes enforceable by or against the Authority.

(4) The operation of this section does not —

(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, any Act or other
     law, or any agreement, or otherwise a civil wrong or
     criminal wrong;

(b) constitute a breach of duty of confidence (whether arising
     by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other way);

          (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
              prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

91  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
    information;

    (d) constitute a termination of any agreement or obligation,
         fulfil any condition that allows a person to terminate or
         otherwise releases a person from any agreement or
         obligation, or give rise to any right or remedy in respect
         of any agreement or obligation; or

    (e) constitute frustration of any contract, or cause any
        agreement to be void or otherwise unenforceable.

 (5) No attornment to the Authority by a lessee of a transferor is
required.

Transfer of employees to Authority

 84.—(1) On the transfer date —

       (a) every MDA employee stops being an employee of the
            Media Development Authority of Singapore; and

       (b) every transferring IDA employee stops being an employee
            of the Info‑communications Development Authority of
            Singapore,

and is each transferred to the service, and becomes an employee, of
the Authority on terms no less favourable than those enjoyed by the
employee on the eve of the transfer date.

 (2) A certificate signed by the Minister certifying whether an
individual named in the certificate has been transferred to the service
of the Authority under subsection (1) is admissible in evidence in any
proceedings as proof of the matters stated in the certificate.

 (3) The transfer of an employee of a transferor to the Authority
under subsection (1) —

       (a) does not interrupt continuity of that employee’s service;

       (b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy of that
            employee’s employment by the transferor; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            92

          (c) does not entitle that employee to any compensation or
              other payment or benefit merely because he or she stops
              being employed by the transferor.

(4) Nothing in this section prevents —

(a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
     individual transferred to the service of the Authority under
     subsection (1) from being altered by or under any law,
     award or agreement with effect from any time after the
     transfer date; and

(b) an individual transferred to the service of the Authority
     under subsection (1) from resigning from such service any
     time after the transfer date, in accordance with the terms
     and conditions of his or her employment then applicable.

 (5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer of any employee of a transferor to the service
of the Authority under subsection (1).

General preservation of employment terms, etc.

 85.—(1) When an employee of a transferor is transferred to the
service of the Authority under section 84(1) (called in this section a
transferred employee), the transferred employee’s service with the
Authority must be regarded for all purposes as having been
continuous with his or her service with that transferor immediately
before the transfer date.

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if his or
            her employment with the Authority were a continuation of
            employment with that transferor;

       (b) the liabilities of that transferor relating to the transferred
            employee’s accrued rights to annual, sick, maternity or
            other leave and superannuation become the liabilities of
            the Authority; and

       (c) a reference in the contract of employment that had effect in
            relation to the transferred employee immediately before

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

93  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    the transfer date is taken to be, or includes, a reference to
    the Authority.

 (3) Until such time as the Authority draws up the terms and
conditions of employment for the transferred employee, the
Authority is to be regarded as employing the transferred employee
on the same terms and conditions of his or her employment with that
transferor on the eve of the transfer date.

 (4) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the
Authority relating to the length of service of the transferred
employee with the Authority must recognise the length of service
of that employee with that transferor (including any previous service
of that employee taken to be service with that transferor) to be service
with the Authority.

 (5) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or she was
employed by that transferor which would have rendered that
employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished by that transferor, the Authority may —

    (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that employee;

    (b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
         by that transferor against that employee if those
         proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

    (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
        punish that employee as if that employee were not
        transferred and this Act had not been enacted.

 (6) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of the transferred employee during his or her employment
with that transferor concerned —

    (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
         committee of that transferor acting under due authority; or

    (b) had been heard or investigated, but no order, ruling or
         direction had been made, by that committee,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            94

direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Authority.

Transfer of records

 86. On the transfer date, the following records become the records
of the Authority:

       (a) all records of the Media Development Authority of
            Singapore;

       (b) every record, or part of a record, of the
            Info‑communications Development Authority of
            Singapore that relates to —

               (i) any asset or liability transferred to the Authority
                   under section 83(1); or

              (ii) any transferring IDA employee;

       (c) all records of the Personal Data Protection Commission.

                                   PART 10

    REPEAL, SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Interpretation of this Part

 87. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Former IDA” means the Info‑communications Development
         Authority of Singapore established by section 3 of the
         Info‑communications Development Authority of Singapore
         Act (Cap. 137A, 2000 Revised Edition);

      “Former MDA” means the Media Development Authority of
         Singapore established by section 3 of the Media
         Development Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 172,
         2003 Revised Edition);

      “principal Act” means any Act under which the Former IDA or
         the Former MDA performed any function or exercised any
         power before the transfer date, excluding the
         Info‑communications Development Authority of Singapore
         Act and the Media Development Authority of Singapore Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

95  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

    “transfer date” means 1 October 2016;

    “transferring IDA function”, in relation to the Former IDA, has
       the meaning given by section 82.

Application of this Part
 88.—(1) This Part applies in respect of —
       (a) the Former IDA in relation to the transferring IDA
            function; and
       (b) the Former MDA.
 (2) This Part does not affect the operation of, or derogate from —
       (a) any provision in Part 9; or
       (b) section 16 of the Interpretation Act 1965.
 89. [Omitted as having had effect]

Repeal of Media Development Authority of Singapore Act

 90.—(1) Any approval, code of practice, decision, determination,
direction, exemption, notice or notification that —

       (a) is issued or given by the Former MDA or the Minister
            under Part IV of the Media Development Authority of
            Singapore Act (Cap. 172, 2003 Revised Edition); and

       (b) is in force immediately before the transfer date,

remains in force and is deemed to have been issued or given by the
Authority under Part 7 of this Act, to the extent that it is not
inconsistent with Part 7.

 (2) Any reference to a provision in Part IV of the Media
Development Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 172, 2003 Revised
Edition) (called in this section a former provision) in any approval,
code of practice, decision, determination, direction, exemption,
notice or notification mentioned in subsection (1) is to be taken as
a reference to the provision in Part 7 of this Act that is substantially
the same as the former provision (called in this section the
corresponding provision).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
          Info-communications Media

2020 Ed.  Development Authority Act 2016                            96

 (3) Any infringement of a former provision before the transfer date
is deemed to be an infringement of the corresponding provision.

 (4) Any application that is made to the Former MDA under a former
provision and is pending on the transfer date is deemed to be an
application made to the Authority under the corresponding provision.

 (5) Any appeal that is made to the Minister under section 27(2) of
the Media Development Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 172,
2003 Revised Edition) against any act, direction or decision of the
Former MDA under Part IVof that Act, and is pending on the transfer
date, is deemed to be, and is to be continued as, an appeal made under
section 68 of this Act.

Saving and transitional provisions for principal Acts

 91.—(1) Any approval, authorisation, code of practice (including
standard of performance), decision, determination, direction,
exemption, licence, guideline, notice (or other document) or order —

       (a) that is issued or given by the Former IDA (in relation to the
            transferring IDA function) or the Former MDA under any
            principal Act; and

       (b) that is in force immediately before the transfer date,

remains in force and is deemed to have been issued or given by the
Authority under that principal Act, to the extent that it is not
inconsistent with that principal Act (as amended on 1 October 2016).

 (2) Any application that is made to the Former IDA (in relation to
the transferring IDA function) or the Former MDA under any
principal Act and is pending on the transfer date is deemed to be an
application made to the Authority under that principal Act, to the
extent that it is not inconsistent with that principal Act (as amended
on 1 October 2016).

 (3) Any appeal that is made to the Minister under any principal Act
against any act, direction or decision of, or anything contained in any
instrument or other document issued by, the Former IDA (in relation
to the transferring IDA function) or the Former MDA and is pending
on the transfer date is deemed to be an appeal against the Authority
under that principal Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
    Info-communications Media

97  Development Authority Act 2016                            2020 Ed.

Other saving and transitional provisions

 92.—(1) Every act done by or on behalf of the Former IDA (in
relation to the transferring IDA function) or the Former MDA has
effect as though it was done by or on behalf of the Authority, and
remains in force until such time as the Authority invalidates, revokes,
cancels or otherwise determines that act.

 (2) Where anything has been started by or on behalf of the Former
IDA (in relation to the transferring IDA function) or the Former MDA
before the transfer date, the Authority may carry on and complete that
thing on or after that date.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

INFO-COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA DEVELOPMENT
                   AUTHORITY ACT 2016

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media
                           Development Authority Act 2016

Date of First Reading     : 11 July 2016 (Bill No. 21/2016
                                published on 11 July 2016)

Date of Second Reading    : 16 August 2016

Date of Third Reading     : 17 September 2016

Date of commencement      : Parts 1 to 9, sections 87, 88, 90(2), (3),
                                (4), (5) and (6), 91 to 96, 96(a), (b),
                                (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l),
                                (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), (r), (s), (t), (u),
                                (w) and (x), 97 to 102 1 October 2016
                                Sections 89, 90, 90(1) and 96(v)
                                2 October 2016

2. Act 30 of 2016 — Telecommunications (Amendment) Act 2016

Date of First Reading     : 10 October 2016 (Bill No. 30/2016
                                published on 10 October 2016)

Date of Second and Third  : 10 November 2016
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 February 2017

3. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 6 November 2017
                                (Bill No. 45/2017)

Date of Second and Third  : 8 January 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2018

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Info-communications Media Development
                                    Authority Act 2016

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
               ii

5. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                 Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement   : 13 January 2022

6. Act 23 of 2025 — Online Safety (Relief and Accountability) Act 2025
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2025

First Reading  : 15 October 2025

Second and Third Readings : 5 November 2025

Commencement   : 29 June 2026

7. Act 13 of 2026 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                           (Amendment) Act 2026

   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement   : 2 October 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                   COMPARATIVE TABLE

INFO-COMMUNICATIONS MEDIA DEVELOPMENT
                   AUTHORITY ACT 2016

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                     Act 22 of 2016
—                               32—(3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                               37—(3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
[Omitted as having had effect]  90—(1)
90—(1)
                                   (2)
   (2)                             (3)
   (3)                             (4)
   (4)                             (5)
   (5)                             (6)
[Omitted as spent]              92—(3)
[Omitted as having had effect]  93
[Omitted as having had effect]  94
[Omitted as having had effect]  95
[Omitted as having had effect]  96
[Omitted as having had effect]  97
[Omitted as having had effect]  98
[Omitted as having had effect]  99
[Omitted as having had effect]  100
[Omitted as having had effect]  101
[Omitted as having had effect]  102—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (5)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
                 2020 Ed.       ii        Act 22 of 2016
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]       (6)
                                     (7)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 2/10/2026
