 THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
MERCHANT SHIPPING (WRECK REMOVAL) ACT 2017

                                              2020 REVISED EDITION

                    This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
         including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                               Prepared and Published by
                                       THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                           UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                              THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                          2020 Ed.

         Merchant Shipping (Wreck
             Removal) Act 2017

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                              PART 1
                         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2
                          REPORTING OF WRECKS
4. Reporting of wrecks

                                       PART 3

       LOCATING, MARKING AND REMOVAL OF WRECKS

5. Application of this Part
6. Locating and marking of wrecks
7. Measures to facilitate wreck removal
8. Removal of wrecks
9. Determination of hazard

                                        PART 4

                CIVIL LIABILITY FOR WRECK REMOVAL

                               Division 1 — Liability
10. Liability of registered owner
11. Restriction of liability for costs
12. Limitation of liability under section 10
13. Extinguishment of claims

                       Division 2 — Compulsory insurance
14. Application and interpretation of this Division

                                                      1

                                                          31.12.2021
         Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2        Removal) Act 2017                                            2020 Ed.

Section  Compulsory insurance against liability for wreck removal
         Issue of certificates
   15.   Rights of third parties against insurers
   16.
   17.

         Division 3 — Supplementary

   18. Jurisdiction of Singapore courts and registration of foreign
            judgments

   19. Saving for recourse actions

                                           PART 5

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   20. Government ship
   21. Power of arrest
   22. Authority’s officers to exercise powers and duties
   23. Power to board and search ship
   24. Offences by corporations
   25. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   26. Protection from personal liability
   27. Extra-territoriality
   28. Composition of offences
   29. Exemption
   30. Amendment of Schedules
   31. Regulations

            First Schedule — Nairobi International Convention
                                      on the Removal of Wrecks, 2007

            Second Schedule — Excluded ship

An Act to give effect to the Nairobi International Convention on the
  Removal of Wrecks, 2007 and to make provision generally for
  matters connected therewith.

                                                          [8 September 2017]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Merchant Shipping (Wreck Removal) Act 2017.
                Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.        Removal) Act 2017                             3

Interpretation

2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “affected State” means the State in whose Convention area the
        wreck is located;

    “Authority” means the Maritime and Port Authority of
        Singapore established under the Maritime and Port
        Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

“Convention” means the Nairobi International Convention on
   the Removal of Wrecks, 2007, the text of which is in the First
   Schedule;

“Convention area” means the exclusive economic zone of a
   State Party, established in accordance with international law
   or, if a State Party has not established such a zone, an area
   beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea of that State
   determined by that State in accordance with international law
   and extending not more than 200 nautical miles from the
   baselines from which the breadth of its territorial sea is
   measured;

“court”, in relation to any proceedings, includes any court
   having jurisdiction in the matter to which the proceedings
   relate;

“damage” includes loss;

“Director” means the Director of Marine appointed under
   section 4 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 and includes
   the Deputy Director of Marine appointed under that section;

“gross tonnage”, in relation to a ship, means its gross tonnage
   calculated in accordance with the regulations in Annex 1 of
   the International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of
   Ships, 1969 and any amendment to it which has come into
   force and has been accepted by the Government, or any
   successor convention accepted by the Government;

“hazard” means any condition or threat that —

          (a) poses a danger or impediment to navigation; or

                                               31.12.2021
   Merchant Shipping (Wreck

4  Removal) Act 2017                                   2020 Ed.

   (b) may reasonably be expected to result in major
        harmful consequences to the marine environment,
        or damage to the coastline or related interests of one
        or more States;

   “International Safety Management Code” means the
      International Management Code for the Safe Operation of
      Ships and for Pollution Prevention 2002 adopted by the
      International Maritime Organization, and any amendment to
      it which has come into force and has been accepted by the
      Government;

   “maritime casualty” means a collision of ships, stranding or
      other incident of navigation, or other occurrence on board a
      ship or external to it, resulting in material damage or
      imminent threat of material damage to a ship or its cargo;

   “master”, in relation to a ship, includes every person, except a
      pilot, having command or charge of the ship;

   “operator”, in relation to a ship, means —

   (a) the owner of the ship; or

   (b) any other organisation or person such as the manager,
        or the bareboat charterer, who has assumed the
        responsibility for operation of the ship from the
        owner of the ship and who, on assuming such
        responsibility, has agreed to take over all duties and
        responsibilities established under the International
        Safety Management Code;

   “owner”, in relation to a ship, means the owner, and includes the
      registered owner;

   “port”, in relation to Singapore, has the meaning given by the
      Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

   “registered owner”, in relation to a ship, means —

   (a) the person registered as the owner of the ship; or
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                            5

          (b) in the absence of registration, the person owning the
               ship,

          except that, in relation to a ship owned by a State which is
          operated by a person registered in that State as the ship’s
          operator, it means the person registered as its operator;

“related interests” means the interests of a coastal State directly
   affected or threatened by a wreck, such as —

          (a) maritime coastal, port and estuarine activities,
               including fisheries activities, constituting an
               essential means of livelihood of the persons
               concerned;

          (b) tourist attractions and other economic interests of the
               area concerned;

          (c) the health of the coastal population and the wellbeing
              of the area concerned, including conservation of
              marine living resources and of wildlife; and

          (d) offshore and underwater infrastructure;

“removal” means any form of prevention, mitigation or
   elimination of the hazard created by a wreck;

“ship” means a seagoing vessel of any type whatsoever, and
   includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles,
   floating craft and floating platforms, except when those
   platforms are on location engaged in the exploration,
   exploitation or production of seabed mineral resources;

“Singapore ship” means a ship —

          (a) that is registered, provisionally or otherwise, under
               Part 2 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995; and

          (b) which registry is not closed or deemed to be closed or
               suspended under that Part;

“Singapore’s Convention area” means the exclusive economic
   zone of Singapore;

“State Party” means a State in respect of which the Convention
   is in force;

                                                       31.12.2021
   Merchant Shipping (Wreck

6  Removal) Act 2017                                     2020 Ed.

   “wreck”, following upon a maritime casualty, means —

   (a) a sunken or stranded ship;

   (b) any part of a sunken or stranded ship, including any
        object that is or has been on board such a ship;

   (c) any object that is lost at sea from a ship and that is
       stranded, sunken or adrift at sea; or

   (d) a ship that is about, or may reasonably be expected, to
        sink or to strand, where effective measures to assist
        the ship or any property in danger are not already
        being taken.

Application

 3. Nothing in this Act applies in relation to any wreck following
upon a maritime casualty occurring before 8 September 2017.

                                    PART 2

                        REPORTING OF WRECKS

Reporting of wrecks

 4.—(1) Where a Singapore ship is involved in a maritime casualty
resulting in a wreck in a Convention area other than Singapore’s
Convention area, the master or the operator of that ship must report
the wreck to the government of the affected State without delay.

 (2) Where a Singapore ship is involved in a maritime casualty
resulting in a wreck in Singapore’s Convention area, the master or the
operator of that ship must report the wreck to the Director without
delay.

 (3) The report mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) must contain —

       (a) the name and principal place of business of the registered
            owner of the ship involved in the maritime casualty; and

       (b) so far as it is known, the following information:

               (i) the precise location of the wreck;

              (ii) the type, size and construction of the wreck;
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017         7

          (iii) the nature of the damage to, and the condition of, the
                wreck;

          (iv) the nature and quantity of the cargo, in particular any
               hazardous and noxious substances;

          (v) the amount and types of oil, including bunker oil and
               lubricating oil, on board.

 (4) If any of the persons mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) makes a
report under that subsection, the other person mentioned in that
subsection is not required to make the report.

 (5) If a report required to be made under subsection (1) or (2) is not
made, the master and the operator of the ship shall each be guilty of an
offence.

 (6) If the report made under subsection (1) or (2) does not comply
with subsection (3), the master or the operator of the ship who made
the report shall be guilty of an offence.

 (7) A master or an operator of a ship who is guilty of an offence
under this section shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

                                    PART 3
     LOCATING, MARKING AND REMOVAL OF WRECKS
Application of this Part
 5. This Part applies where a ship is involved in a maritime casualty
resulting in a wreck in Singapore’s Convention area.

Locating and marking of wrecks
 6. Upon becoming aware of a wreck, the Director must take all

reasonable steps to ensure Singapore’s compliance with its
obligations under Articles 7 and 8 of the Convention.

Measures to facilitate wreck removal
 7.—(1) Where a wreck has been determined by the Director to

constitute a hazard, the Director must take all reasonable steps to give

                                    31.12.2021
   Merchant Shipping (Wreck

8  Removal) Act 2017                             2020 Ed.

a notice requiring the registered owner of the ship involved in the
maritime casualty resulting in the wreck to —

   (a) remove the wreck; and

   (b) provide evidence of insurance or other financial security as
        required by any regulations made under this Act.

   (2) The notice must be in writing and must —

   (a) specify a reasonable deadline within which the registered
        owner must remove the wreck, taking into account the
        nature of the hazard as determined by the Director;

   (b) specify that if the registered owner does not remove the
        wreck within that deadline, the Director may remove the
        wreck at the registered owner’s expense; and

   (c) state the Director’s intention to intervene immediately in
        circumstances where the hazard becomes particularly
        severe.

 (3) The notice may specify conditions as to the removal of the
wreck to the extent necessary to ensure that the removal proceeds in a
manner that is consistent with considerations of safety and protection
of the marine environment.

Removal of wrecks

 8.—(1) The Director may remove a wreck which the Director has
determined to constitute a hazard —

       (a) where the registered owner of the ship does not remove the
            wreck within the deadline specified in the notice
            mentioned in section 7(2);

       (b) where the registered owner of the ship cannot be contacted;
            or

       (c) where the Director has determined that having regard to the
            nature of the hazard immediate action must be taken to
            remove the wreck.

 (2) Where the Director removes a wreck under subsection (1), the
Director must do so by the most practical and expeditious means
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017         9

available, consistent with considerations of safety and protection of
the marine environment.

 (3) The Director —

(a) may sell any wreck, free of liens and encumbrances and in
     the manner the Director thinks fit;

(b) may take out of the proceeds of the sale of the wreck the
     expenses incurred by the Director in relation to the sale as
     reimbursement; and

          (c) must hold the surplus of the proceeds of the sale (if any) in
              trust for the persons entitled to the surplus of the proceeds
              of sale.

Determination of hazard

 9. The Director must take into account the matters set out in
Article 6 of the Convention when determining —

       (a) whether a wreck constitutes a hazard under section 7(1) or
            8(1); or

       (b) the nature of the hazard under section 7(2)(a) or 8(1)(c).

                                    PART 4

            CIVIL LIABILITY FOR WRECK REMOVAL
                           Division 1 — Liability

Liability of registered owner
 10.—(1) This section applies where —
       (a) a ship is involved in a maritime casualty resulting in a
            wreck in Singapore’s Convention area; and
       (b) costs are incurred by the Director for locating, marking and
            removing the wreck under Part 3.

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the registered owner of the
ship is liable for the Director’s costs.

                                    31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

10  Removal) Act 2017                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) The registered owner of a ship is not liable for the Director’s
costs if or to the extent that liability for the costs would conflict
with —

    (a) a convention listed in paragraph 1 of Article 11 of the
         Convention if Singapore is a party to the convention and
         the convention is in force in Singapore;

    (b) any enactment implementing such a convention; or

    (c) any other provision specified in an order made by the
        Authority, with the approval of the Minister, and published
        in the Gazette.

 (4) The registered owner of a ship is not liable for the Director’s
costs if the registered owner of the ship proves that an exception set
out in paragraph 1(a), (b) or (c) of Article 10 of the Convention
applies.

 (5) Where the registered owner of each of 2 or more ships is liable
for costs under this section but the costs for which each is liable
cannot reasonably be separated, the registered owners are jointly
liable for the total costs.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a reference to the registered
owner of the ship is a reference to the registered owner of the ship
involved in the maritime casualty resulting in the wreck at the time of
the maritime casualty.

Restriction of liability for costs

 11. No claim for the costs mentioned in section 10(2) may be made
against the registered owner of the ship otherwise than in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.

Limitation of liability under section 10

 12. If a registered owner of a ship incurs liability under section 10,
that liability may be limited in accordance with and in the manner
provided in Part 8 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995, as if
paragraph 1(d) and (e) of Article 2 of the Convention on Limitation of
Liability for Maritime Claims, 1976 has the force of law in Singapore.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017         11

Extinguishment of claims

 13. An action to recover costs incurred under section 10 may not be
brought unless the action is commenced on or before the earlier of the
following:

(a) the end of the period of 3 years after the date on which the
     notice by the Director is given under section 7;

(b) the end of the period of 6 years after the date of the
     maritime casualty which resulted in the wreck.

                   Division 2 — Compulsory insurance

Application and interpretation of this Division

 14.—(1) This Division applies to a ship, other than an excluded
ship, having a gross tonnage of 300 or above.

 (2) In this Division —
      “covered by wreck removal insurance”, in respect of a ship,
         means that there is in force in respect of the ship wreck
         removal insurance;

      “excluded ship” means a ship specified in the Second Schedule;
      “foreign ship” means a ship other than a Singapore ship;
      “wreck removal insurance” means a contract of insurance or

         other financial security satisfying the requirements of
         Article 12 of the Convention.

Compulsory insurance against liability for wreck removal

 15.—(1) A Singapore ship may not enter or leave a port in
Singapore, or a port in a country other than Singapore, unless —

       (a) the ship is covered by wreck removal insurance;

       (b) the Director has certified that the ship is covered by wreck
            removal insurance; and

       (c) a copy of the Director’s certificate is carried on board the
            ship.

                                    31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

12                     Removal) Act 2017  2020 Ed.

 (2) A foreign ship may not enter or leave a port in Singapore
unless —

    (a) the ship is covered by wreck removal insurance; and

    (b) there is carried on board the ship written evidence of
         paragraph (a).

(3) The master of a ship must —

    (a) ensure that the certificate mentioned in subsection (1)(c) or
         the written evidence mentioned in subsection (2)(b) (as the
         case may be) is carried on board the ship; and

    (b) on demand, produce the certificate or the written evidence
         (as the case may be) to —

    (i) any officer of the Authority; or

            (ii) any consular officer within the meaning of
                  section 2(1) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

(4) If —

    (a) a Singapore ship enters or leaves, or a person attempts to
         navigate the ship into or out of, a port in Singapore or any
         other country in contravention of subsection (1); or

    (b) a foreign ship enters or leaves, or a person attempts to
         navigate the ship into or out of, a port in Singapore in
         contravention of subsection (2),

the master and the operator of the ship shall each be guilty of an
offence and shall each be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000.

 (5) A master of a ship who fails to comply with subsection (3)(a)
or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $20,000.

 (6) If a person attempts to navigate a ship into or out of a port in
Singapore in contravention of subsection (4), the ship may be
detained by —

    (a) the Director;

    (b) an officer of the Authority;
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                            13

          (c) a police officer; or

(d) a commissioned officer on full pay in the Singapore Armed
     Forces.

 (7) Section 209 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 applies to the
detention of a ship under this Act with the necessary modifications.

(8) In this section, a reference to a port includes —

(a) in the case of a port in Singapore — any offshore facility in
     the territorial sea of Singapore; and

(b) in the case of a port in a country other than Singapore — an
     offshore facility in the territorial sea of that country.

Issue of certificates

 16.—(1) The registered owner of a Singapore ship may apply to the
Director for a certificate that the ship is covered by wreck removal
insurance for the period for which the certificate will relate.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Director must issue the certificate
upon an application under subsection (1) if the Director is satisfied
that the ship is covered by wreck removal insurance for the period for
which the certificate will relate.

 (3) The Director may refuse to issue the certificate if the Director
has any doubt as to —

       (a) whether the obligations of the person providing the wreck
            removal insurance will be met; or

       (b) whether the insurance will satisfy the requirements of
            Article 12 of the Convention in all circumstances.

 (4) The registered owner of a foreign ship registered in any country
that is not a State Party may also apply to the Director for a certificate
that the ship is covered by wreck removal insurance for the period for
which the certificate will relate.

 (5) The Director may, upon an application under subsection (4) —

       (a) issue the certificate if the Director is satisfied that the ship
            is covered by wreck removal insurance for the period for
            which the certificate will relate; and

                                                       31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

14  Removal) Act 2017                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) without prejudice to any other ground, refuse to issue the
         certificate on a ground mentioned in subsection (3).

(6) The Director must —

    (a) maintain a record of any certificate issued under this
         section; and

    (b) make the record available for public inspection.

Rights of third parties against insurers

 17.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) a ship is involved in a maritime casualty resulting in a
            wreck in Singapore’s Convention area; and

       (b) at the time of the maritime casualty, the ship is covered by
            wreck removal insurance.

 (2) If the registered owner of the ship is liable for the Director’s
costs of locating, marking and removing the wreck under section 10,
the Director may recover the costs from the person providing the
wreck removal insurance (called in this section the insurer).

 (3) It is a defence for the insurer in a claim under this section to
prove that the maritime casualty was caused by the wilful misconduct
of the registered owner of the ship.

 (4) The insurer may also rely on any defences available to the
registered owner of the ship.

 (5) The insurer may limit its liability in respect of a claim made
under this section in the same manner and to the same extent as the
registered owner of the ship may limit its liability and may do so
whether or not the maritime casualty resulted from any act or
omission of the registered owner.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                                   15

          Division 3 — Supplementary

Jurisdiction of Singapore courts and registration of foreign
judgments

 18. Section 3(1)(i) of the High Court (Admiralty Jurisdiction)
Act 1961 is to be construed as extending to any claim in respect of a
liability incurred by the registered owner of a ship under this Part.

Saving for recourse actions

 19. Nothing in this Part affects any claim, or the enforcement of any
claim, that a person incurring any liability under this Part may have
against another person in respect of that liability.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Government ship

 20.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), nothing in this Act applies in
relation to —

       (a) any warship; or

       (b) any ship for the time being used by the government of any
            State otherwise than for commercial purposes.

 (2) Section 15 does not apply to a ship that is owned by a State Party
if there is carried on board the ship a certificate issued by the State
Party stating —

       (a) that the ship is owned by the State Party; and

       (b) that any liability under section 10 will be met up to the
            limit prescribed by section 12.

 (3) Subject to subsection (2), Part 4 applies to a ship mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) if specified in a notice under paragraph 3 of
Article 4 of the Convention.

                                      31.12.2021
                 Merchant Shipping (Wreck

16               Removal) Act 2017         2020 Ed.

Power of arrest

 21. An officer of the Authority or a police officer who reasonably
believes that a person has committed an offence under this Act may,
without warrant, arrest that person and take that person before a
Magistrate’s Court to be dealt with according to law.

Authority’s officers to exercise powers and duties

 22. The powers conferred and the duties imposed on the Director
under this Act may, subject to the Director’s directions, be exercised
and carried out by any officer of the Authority generally or specially
authorised by name or office by the Director.

Power to board and search ship

 23.—(1) An authorised officer who has reason to believe that an
offence has been committed under this Act may —

       (a) board any ship;

       (b) enter and search any place;

       (c) inspect and examine any ship or place;

       (d) summon any person who appears to be acquainted with the
            circumstances of the case before the authorised officer and
            examine that person orally;

       (e) require any person who appears to be acquainted with the
            circumstances of the case to provide any information or
            produce any record or document (or copy of any record or
            document) in the possession or under the custody or
            control of that person;

        (f) seize any book, paper, document, record, electronic
            material or other thing found in the ship or place which
            may provide evidence of the commission of an offence
            under this Act; and

       (g) make copies of, or take extracts from or samples of, any
            book, paper, document, record, electronic material or other
            thing provided, produced or seized (as the case may be)
            under this subsection.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                                    17

 (2) If a person summoned by an authorised officer under
subsection (1)(d) fails to attend as summoned, the authorised
officer may report the failure to a Magistrate who may then issue a
warrant to secure the attendance of that person as required by the
summons.

 (3) A person examined under subsection (1)(d) is bound to state
truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances
concerning matters under this Act, except that the person need not
say anything that might expose him or her to a criminal charge,
penalty or forfeiture.

 (4) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(d)
must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that he or she understands; and

(d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

(5) Any person who —

(a) assaults, hinders, impedes or obstructs the authorised
     officer in the performance of the authorised officer’s
     duties under this section;

(b) wilfully misstates, or without lawful excuse refuses to
     give, any information when examined by an authorised
     officer under subsection (1)(d); or

          (c) without lawful excuse, refuses to provide any information
              or produce any record or document (or a copy of any record
              or document) required of the person by an authorised
              officer under subsection (1)(e),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                    31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

18  Removal) Act 2017         2020 Ed.

 (6) In this section, “authorised officer” means the Director or an
officer of the Authority who is authorised by the Director to exercise
any of the powers mentioned in subsection (1).

Offences by corporations

 24.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual who is involved in the management of
                   the corporation and is in a position to influence the
                   conduct of the corporation in relation to the
                   commission of the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                       19

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               was a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

                                                  31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

20  Removal) Act 2017         2020 Ed.

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 25.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual who is involved in the management of
                   the unincorporated association or partnership and
                   who is in a position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                       21

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
        a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
        member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
        and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

        (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;
“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

                                                  31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

22  Removal) Act 2017                       2020 Ed.

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Protection from personal liability

 26. No liability shall lie personally against the Director, or any
member, officer or employee of the Authority acting under the
direction of the Director or the Authority who, acting in good faith
and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in the
execution or purported execution of this Act.

Extra-territoriality

 27. Where an offence under section 4 or 15 is committed in relation
to a Singapore ship outside Singapore, the master or the operator of
the ship, or both (as the case may be) may be dealt with as if the
offence has been committed in Singapore.

Composition of offences

 28.—(1) The Director may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $1,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017         23

 (4) The Director, and the members, officers and employees of the
Authority, in relation to the administration, assessment and collection
of the composition sums payable under this section, are deemed to be
public officers for the purposes of the Financial Procedure Act 1966,
and section 20 of that Act is to apply to such persons even though they
are not or were not in the employment of the Government.

Exemption

 29. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by order
in the Gazette, exempt any person or ship, or class or description of
persons or ships, from any provision of this Act, or any regulations
made under this Act.

Amendment of Schedules

 30. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette —

       (a) amend the First Schedule for the purpose of giving effect to
            the Convention, including any amendment to the
            Convention that is binding on Singapore; and

       (b) amend the Second Schedule.

Regulations

 31.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) prescribe the fees to be paid for the purposes of this Act;

       (b) provide for the cancellation and delivery up to the Director
            of a certificate issued under section 16;

       (c) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
            compounded;

       (d) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
            regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not

                                    31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

24  Removal) Act 2017         2020 Ed.

    exceeding $20,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
    exceeding 12 months or with both;

    (e) provide for any other matter which is required or
        authorised by any provision of this Act to be provided
        for by regulations.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 30(a)

                   NAIROBI INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION
                      ON THE REMOVAL OF WRECKS, 2007

Preamble:

    THE STATES PARTIES TO THE PRESENT CONVENTION,

    CONSCIOUS of the fact that wrecks, if not removed, may pose a hazard to
navigation or the marine environment,

    CONVINCED of the need to adopt uniform international rules and procedures
to ensure the prompt and effective removal of wrecks and payment of
compensation for the costs therein involved,

    NOTING that many wrecks may be located in States’ territory, including the
territorial sea,

    RECOGNIZING the benefits to be gained through uniformity in legal regimes
governing responsibility and liability for removal of hazardous wrecks,

    BEARING IN MIND the importance of the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea, done at Montego Bay on 10 December 1982, and of the customary
international law of the sea, and the consequent need to implement the present
Convention in accordance with such provisions,

     HAVE AGREED as follows:

                                           Article 1

                                          Definitions

For the purposes of this Convention:

 1. “Convention area” means the exclusive economic zone of a State Party,
established in accordance with international law or, if a State Party has not
established such a zone, an area beyond and adjacent to the territorial sea of that
State determined by that State in accordance with international law and extending
not more than 200 nautical miles from the baselines from which the breadth of its
territorial sea is measured.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                             25

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 2. “Ship” means a seagoing vessel of any type whatsoever and includes
hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and floating
platforms, except when such platforms are on location engaged in the exploration,
exploitation or production of seabed mineral resources.

 3. “Maritime casualty” means a collision of ships, stranding or other incident of
navigation, or other occurrence on board a ship or external to it, resulting in
material damage or imminent threat of material damage to a ship or its cargo.

4. “Wreck”, following upon a maritime casualty, means:

(a) a sunken or stranded ship; or

(b) any part of a sunken or stranded ship, including any object that is or has
     been on board such a ship; or

(c) any object that is lost at sea from a ship and that is stranded, sunken or
    adrift at sea; or

(d) a ship that is about, or may reasonably be expected, to sink or to strand,
     where effective measures to assist the ship or any property in danger
     are not already being taken.

5. “Hazard” means any condition or threat that:

(a) poses a danger or impediment to navigation; or

(b) may reasonably be expected to result in major harmful consequences
     to the marine environment, or damage to the coastline or related
     interests of one or more States.

 6. “Related interests” means the interests of a coastal State directly affected or
threatened by a wreck, such as:

(a) maritime coastal, port and estuarine activities, including fisheries
     activities, constituting an essential means of livelihood of the persons
     concerned;

(b) tourist attractions and other economic interests of the area concerned;

(c) the health of the coastal population and the wellbeing of the area
    concerned, including conservation of marine living resources and of
    wildlife; and

(d) offshore and underwater infrastructure.

 7. “Removal” means any form of prevention, mitigation or elimination of the
hazard created by a wreck. “Remove”, “removed” and “removing” shall be
construed accordingly.

                                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

26  Removal) Act 2017                                              2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 8. “Registered owner” means the person or persons registered as the owner of
the ship or, in the absence of registration, the person or persons owning the ship at
the time of the maritime casualty. However, in the case of a ship owned by a State
and operated by a company which in that State is registered as the operator of the
ship, “registered owner” shall mean such company.

 9. “Operator of the ship” means the owner of the ship or any other organization
or person such as the manager, or the bareboat charterer, who has assumed the
responsibility for operation of the ship from the owner of the ship and who, on
assuming such responsibility, has agreed to take over all duties and responsibilities
established under the International Safety Management Code, as amended.

 10. “Affected State” means the State in whose Convention area the wreck is
located.

 11. “State of the ship’s registry” means, in relation to a registered ship, the State
of registration of the ship and, in relation to an unregistered ship, the State whose
flag the ship is entitled to fly.

12. “Organization” means the International Maritime Organization.

13. “Secretary-General” means the Secretary-General of the Organization.

    Article 2

    Objectives and general principles

 1. A State Party may take measures in accordance with this Convention in
relation to the removal of a wreck which poses a hazard in the Convention area.

 2. Measures taken by the Affected State in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be
proportionate to the hazard.

 3. Such measures shall not go beyond what is reasonably necessary to remove a
wreck which poses a hazard and shall cease as soon as the wreck has been
removed; they shall not unnecessarily interfere with the rights and interests of
other States including the State of the ship’s registry, and of any person, physical
or corporate, concerned.

 4. The application of this Convention within the Convention area shall not
entitle a State Party to claim or exercise sovereignty or sovereign rights over any
part of the high seas.

 5. States Parties shall endeavour to co-operate when the effects of a maritime
casualty resulting in a wreck involve a State other than the Affected State.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017           27

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          Article 3

          Scope of application

 1. Except as otherwise provided in this Convention, this Convention shall apply
to wrecks in the Convention area.

 2. A State Party may extend the application of this Convention to wrecks located
within its territory, including the territorial sea, subject to article 4, paragraph 4. In
that case, it shall notify the Secretary-General accordingly, at the time of
expressing its consent to be bound by this Convention or at any time thereafter.
When a State Party has made a notification to apply this Convention to wrecks
located within its territory, including the territorial sea, this is without prejudice to
the rights and obligations of that State to take measures in relation to wrecks
located in its territory, including the territorial sea, other than locating, marking
and removing them in accordance with this Convention. The provisions of
articles 10, 11 and 12 of this Convention shall not apply to any measures so taken
other than those referred to in articles 7, 8 and 9 of this Convention.

 3. When a State Party has made a notification under paragraph 2, the
“Convention area” of the Affected State shall include the territory, including
the territorial sea, of that State Party.

 4. A notification made under paragraph 2 above shall take effect for that State
Party, if made before entry into force of this Convention for that State Party, upon
entry into force. If notification is made after entry into force of this Convention for
that State Party, it shall take effect six months after its receipt by the
Secretary-General.

 5. A State Party that has made a notification under paragraph 2 may withdraw it
at any time by means of a notification of withdrawal to the Secretary-General.
Such notification of withdrawal shall take effect six months after its receipt by the
Secretary-General, unless the notification specifies a later date.

          Article 4

          Exclusions

 1. This Convention shall not apply to measures taken under the International
Convention relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution
Casualties, 1969, as amended, or the Protocol relating to Intervention on the High
Seas in Cases of Pollution by Substances other than Oil, 1973, as amended.

 2. This Convention shall not apply to any warship or other ship owned or
operated by a State and used, for the time being, only on Government
non-commercial service, unless that State decides otherwise.

                                      31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

28  Removal) Act 2017                                     2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 3. Where a State Party decides to apply this Convention to its warships or other
ships as described in paragraph 2, it shall notify the Secretary-General, thereof,
specifying the terms and conditions of such application.

 4. (a) When a State Party has made a notification under article 3, paragraph 2,
the following provisions of this Convention shall not apply in its territory,
including the territorial sea:

     (i) Article 2, paragraph 4;
    (ii) Article 9, paragraphs 1, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10; and
    (iii) Article 15.

 (b) Article 9, paragraph 4, insofar as it applies to the territory, including the
territorial sea of a State Party, shall read:

       Subject to the national law of the Affected State, the registered owner may
       contract with any salvor or other person to remove the wreck determined to
       constitute a hazard on behalf of the owner. Before such removal
       commences, the Affected State may lay down conditions for such
       removal only to the extent necessary to ensure that the removal proceeds
       in a manner that is consistent with considerations of safety and protection of
       the marine environment.

                                           Article 5

                                     Reporting wrecks

 1. A State Party shall require the master and the operator of a ship flying its flag
to report to the Affected State without delay when that ship has been involved in a
maritime casualty resulting in a wreck. To the extent that the reporting obligation
under this article has been fulfilled either by the master or the operator of the ship,
the other shall not be obliged to report.

 2. Such reports shall provide the name and the principal place of business of the
registered owner and all the relevant information necessary for the Affected State
to determine whether the wreck poses a hazard in accordance with article 6,
including:

        (a) the precise location of the wreck;

        (b) the type, size and construction of the wreck;

        (c) the nature of the damage to, and the condition of, the wreck;

        (d) the nature and quantity of the cargo, in particular any hazardous and
             noxious substances; and
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.              Removal) Act 2017                                 29

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(e) the amount and types of oil, including bunker oil and lubricating oil, on
    board.

                      Article 6

                      Determination of hazard

    When determining whether a wreck poses a hazard, the following criteria
should be taken into account by the Affected State:

(a) the type, size and construction of the wreck;

(b) depth of the water in the area;

(c) tidal range and currents in the area;

(d) particularly sensitive sea areas identified and, as appropriate,
     designated in accordance with guidelines adopted by the
     Organization, or a clearly defined area of the exclusive economic
     zone where special mandatory measures have been adopted pursuant
     to article 211, paragraph 6, of the United Nations Convention on the
     Law of the Sea, 1982;

(e) proximity of shipping routes or established traffic lanes;

          (f) traffic density and frequency;

(g) type of traffic;

(h) nature and quantity of the wreck’s cargo, the amount and types of oil
     (such as bunker oil and lubricating oil) on board the wreck and, in
     particular, the damage likely to result should the cargo or oil be
     released into the marine environment;

          (i) vulnerability of port facilities;

          (j) prevailing meteorological and hydrographical conditions;

(k) submarine topography of the area;

          (l) height of the wreck above or below the surface of the water at lowest
              astronomical tide;

(m) acoustic and magnetic profiles of the wreck;

(n) proximity of offshore installations, pipelines, telecommunications
     cables and similar structures; and

(o) any other circumstances that might necessitate the removal of the
     wreck.

                                                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

30  Removal) Act 2017                             2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    Article 7

    Locating wrecks

 1. Upon becoming aware of a wreck, the Affected State shall use all practicable
means, including the good offices of States and organizations, to warn mariners
and the States concerned of the nature and location of the wreck as a matter of
urgency.

 2. If the Affected State has reason to believe that a wreck poses a hazard, it shall
ensure that all practicable steps are taken to establish the precise location of the
wreck.

    Article 8

    Marking of wrecks

 1. If the Affected State determines that a wreck constitutes a hazard, that State
shall ensure that all reasonable steps are taken to mark the wreck.

 2. In marking the wreck, all practicable steps shall be taken to ensure that the
markings conform to the internationally accepted system of buoyage in use in the
area where the wreck is located.

 3. The Affected State shall promulgate the particulars of the marking of the
wreck by use of all appropriate means, including the appropriate nautical
publications.

    Article 9

    Measures to facilitate the removal of wrecks

 1. If the Affected State determines that a wreck constitutes a hazard, that State
shall immediately:

    (a) inform the State of the ship’s registry and the registered owner; and

    (b) proceed to consult the State of the ship’s registry and other States
         affected by the wreck regarding measures to be taken in relation to the
         wreck.

2. The registered owner shall remove a wreck determined to constitute a hazard.

 3. When a wreck has been determined to constitute a hazard, the registered
owner, or other interested party, shall provide the competent authority of the
Affected State with evidence of insurance or other financial security as required
by article 12.

 4. The registered owner may contract with any salvor or other person to remove
the wreck determined to constitute a hazard on behalf of the owner. Before such
removal commences, the Affected State may lay down conditions for such
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.                      Removal) Act 2017  31

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

removal only to the extent necessary to ensure that the removal proceeds in a
manner that is consistent with considerations of safety and protection of the
marine environment.

 5. When the removal referred to in paragraphs 2 and 4 has commenced, the
Affected State may intervene in the removal only to the extent necessary to ensure
that the removal proceeds effectively in a manner that is consistent with
considerations of safety and protection of the marine environment.

6. The Affected State shall:

(a) set a reasonable deadline within which the registered owner must
     remove the wreck, taking into account the nature of the hazard
     determined in accordance with article 6;

(b) inform the registered owner in writing of the deadline it has set and
     specify that, if the registered owner does not remove the wreck within
     that deadline, it may remove the wreck at the registered owner’s
     expense; and

(c) inform the registered owner in writing that it intends to intervene
    immediately in circumstances where the hazard becomes particularly
    severe.

 7. If the registered owner does not remove the wreck within the deadline set in
accordance with paragraph 6(a), or the registered owner cannot be contacted, the
Affected State may remove the wreck by the most practical and expeditious means
available, consistent with considerations of safety and protection of the marine
environment.

 8. In circumstances where immediate action is required and the Affected State
has informed the State of the ship’s registry and the registered owner accordingly,
it may remove the wreck by the most practical and expeditious means available,
consistent with considerations of safety and protection of the marine environment.

 9. States Parties shall take appropriate measures under their national law to
ensure that their registered owners comply with paragraphs 2 and 3.

 10. States Parties give their consent to the Affected State to act under
paragraphs 4 to 8, where required.

 11. The information referred to in this article shall be provided by the Affected
State to the registered owner identified in the reports referred to in article 5,
paragraph 2.

                                                 31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

32  Removal) Act 2017           2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    Article 10

    Liability of the owner

 1. Subject to article 11, the registered owner shall be liable for the costs of
locating, marking and removing the wreck under articles 7, 8 and 9, respectively,
unless the registered owner proves that the maritime casualty that caused the
wreck:

    (a) resulted from an act of war, hostilities, civil war, insurrection, or a
         natural phenomenon of an exceptional, inevitable and irresistible
         character;

    (b) was wholly caused by an act or omission done with intent to cause
         damage by a third party; or

    (c) was wholly caused by the negligence or other wrongful act of any
        Government or other authority responsible for the maintenance of
        lights or other navigational aids in the exercise of that function.

 2. Nothing in this Convention shall affect the right of the registered owner to
limit liability under any applicable national or international regime, such as the
Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims, 1976, as amended.

 3. No claim for the costs referred to in paragraph 1 may be made against the
registered owner otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of this
Convention. This is without prejudice to the rights and obligations of a State Party
that has made a notification under article 3, paragraph 2, in relation to wrecks
located in its territory, including the territorial sea, other than locating, marking
and removing in accordance with this Convention.

 4. Nothing in this article shall prejudice any right of recourse against third
parties.

    Article 11

    Exceptions to liability

 1. The registered owner shall not be liable under this Convention for the costs
mentioned in article 10, paragraph 1 if, and to the extent that, liability for such
costs would be in conflict with:

    (a) the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution
         Damage, 1969, as amended;

    (b) the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for
         Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious
         Substances by Sea, 1996, as amended;
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                                        33

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(c) the Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear
    Energy, 1960, as amended, or the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability
    for Nuclear Damage, 1963, as amended; or national law governing or
    prohibiting limitation of liability for nuclear damage; or

(d) the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil
     Pollution Damage, 2001, as amended;

provided that the relevant convention is applicable and in force.

 2. To the extent that measures under this Convention are considered to be
salvage under applicable national law or an international convention, such law or
convention shall apply to questions of the remuneration or compensation payable
to salvors to the exclusion of the rules of this Convention.

          Article 12

          Compulsory insurance or other financial security

 1. The registered owner of a ship of 300 gross tonnage and above and flying the
flag of a State Party shall be required to maintain insurance or other financial
security, such as a guarantee of a bank or similar institution, to cover liability
under this Convention in an amount equal to the limits of liability under the
applicable national or international limitation regime, but in all cases not
exceeding an amount calculated in accordance with article 6(1)(b) of the
Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims, 1976, as amended.

 2. A certificate attesting that insurance or other financial security is in force in
accordance with the provisions of this Convention shall be issued to each ship of
300 gross tonnage and above by the appropriate authority of the State of the ship’s
registry after determining that the requirements of paragraph 1 have been
complied with. With respect to a ship registered in a State Party, such certificate
shall be issued or certified by the appropriate authority of the State of the ship’s
registry; with respect to a ship not registered in a State Party it may be issued or
certified by the appropriate authority of any State Party. This compulsory
insurance certificate shall be in the form of the model set out in the annex to this
Convention, and shall contain the following particulars:

(a) name of the ship, distinctive number or letters and port of registry;

(b) gross tonnage of the ship;

(c) name and principal place of business of the registered owner;

(d) IMO ship identification number;

(e) type and duration of security;

                                                                   31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

34  Removal) Act 2017                                     2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    (f) name and principal place of business of insurer or other person giving
        security and, where appropriate, place of business where the insurance
        or security is established; and

    (g) period of validity of the certificate, which shall not be longer than the
         period of validity of the insurance or other security.

 3. (a) A State Party may authorize either an institution or an organization
recognized by it to issue the certificate referred to in paragraph 2. Such institution
or organization shall inform that State of the issue of each certificate. In all cases,
the State Party shall fully guarantee the completeness and accuracy of the
certificate so issued and shall undertake to ensure the necessary arrangements to
satisfy this obligation.

(b) A State Party shall notify the Secretary-General of:

    (i) the specific responsibilities and conditions of the authority delegated
        to an institution or organization recognized by it;

    (ii) the withdrawal of such authority; and

    (iii) the date from which such authority or withdrawal of such authority
          takes effect.

An authority delegated shall not take effect prior to three months from the date on
which notification to that effect was given to the Secretary-General.

 (c) The institution or organization authorized to issue certificates in accordance
with this paragraph shall, as a minimum, be authorized to withdraw these
certificates if the conditions under which they have been issued are not
maintained. In all cases the institution or organization shall report such
withdrawal to the State on whose behalf the certificate was issued.

 4. The certificate shall be in the official language or languages of the issuing
State. If the language used is not English, French or Spanish, the text shall include
a translation into one of these languages and, where the State so decides, the
official language(s) of the State may be omitted.

 5. The certificate shall be carried on board the ship and a copy shall be deposited
with the authorities who keep the record of the ship’s registry or, if the ship is not
registered in a State Party, with the authorities issuing or certifying the certificate.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017           35

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 6. An insurance or other financial security shall not satisfy the requirements of
this article if it can cease for reasons other than the expiry of the period of validity
of the insurance or security specified in the certificate under paragraph 2 before
three months have elapsed from the date on which notice of its termination is
given to the authorities referred to in paragraph 5 unless certificate has been
surrendered to these authorities or a new certificate has been issued within the said
period. The foregoing provisions shall similarly apply to any modification, which
results in the insurance or security no longer satisfying the requirements of this
article.

 7. The State of the ship’s registry shall, subject to the provisions of this article
and having regard to any guidelines adopted by the Organization on the financial
responsibility of the registered owners, determine the conditions of issue and
validity of the certificate.

 8. Nothing in this Convention shall be construed as preventing a State Party
from relying on information obtained from other States or the Organization or
other international organizations relating to the financial standing of providers of
insurance or financial security for the purposes of this Convention. In such cases,
the State Party relying on such information is not relieved of its responsibility as a
State issuing the certificate required by paragraph 2.

 9. Certificates issued and certified under the authority of a State Party shall be
accepted by other States Parties for the purposes of this Convention and shall be
regarded by other States Parties as having the same force as certificates issued or
certified by them, even if issued or certified in respect of a ship not registered in a
State Party. A State Party may at any time request consultation with the issuing or
certifying State should it believe that the insurer or guarantor named in the
certificate is not financially capable of meeting the obligations imposed by this
Convention.

                                      31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

36  Removal) Act 2017           2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 10. Any claim for costs arising under this Convention may be brought directly
against the insurer or other person providing financial security for the registered
owner’s liability. In such a case the defendant may invoke the defences (other than
the bankruptcy or winding up of the registered owner) that the registered owner
would have been entitled to invoke, including limitation of liability under any
applicable national or international regime. Furthermore, even if the registered
owner is not entitled to limit liability, the defendant may limit liability to an
amount equal to the amount of the insurance or other financial security required to
be maintained in accordance with paragraph 1. Moreover, the defendant may
invoke the defence that the maritime casualty was caused by the wilful misconduct
of the registered owner, but the defendant shall not invoke any other defence
which the defendant might have been entitled to invoke in proceedings brought by
the registered owner against the defendant. The defendant shall in any event have
the right to require the registered owner to be joined in the proceedings.

 11. A State Party shall not permit any ship entitled to fly its flag to which this
article applies to operate at any time unless a certificate has been issued under
paragraphs 2 or 14.

 12. Subject to the provisions of this article, each State Party shall ensure, under
its national law, that insurance or other security to the extent required by
paragraph 1 is in force in respect of any ship of 300 gross tonnage and above,
wherever registered, entering or leaving a port in its territory, or arriving at or
leaving from an offshore facility in its territorial sea.

 13. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 5, a State Party may notify the
Secretary-General that, for the purposes of paragraph 12, ships are not required to
carry on board or to produce the certificate required by paragraph 2, when entering
or leaving a port in its territory, or arriving at or leaving from an offshore facility in
its territorial sea, provided that the State Party which issues the certificate required
by paragraph 2 has notified the Secretary-General that it maintains records in an
electronic format, accessible to all States Parties, attesting the existence of the
certificate and enabling States Parties to discharge their obligations under
paragraph 12.

 14. If insurance or other financial security is not maintained in respect of a ship
owned by a State Party, the provisions of this article relating thereto shall not be
applicable to such ship, but the ship shall carry a certificate issued by the
appropriate authority of the State of registry, stating that it is owned by that State
and that the ship’s liability is covered within the limits prescribed in paragraph 1.
Such a certificate shall follow as closely as possible the model prescribed by
paragraph 2.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017           37

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          Article 13

          Time limits

   Rights to recover costs under this Convention shall be extinguished unless an
action is brought hereunder within three years from the date when the hazard has
been determined in accordance with this Convention. However, in no case shall an
action be brought after six years from the date of the maritime casualty that
resulted in the wreck. Where the maritime casualty consists of a series of
occurrences, the six-year period shall run from the date of the first occurrence.

          Article 14

          Amendment provisions

 1. At the request of not less than one-third of States Parties, a conference shall be
convened by the Organization for the purpose of revising or amending this
Convention.

 2. Any consent to be bound by this Convention, expressed after the date of entry
into force of an amendment to this Convention, shall be deemed to apply to this
Convention, as amended.

          Article 15

          Settlement of disputes

 1. Where a dispute arises between two or more States Parties regarding the
interpretation or application of this Convention, they shall seek to resolve their
dispute, in the first instance, through negotiation, enquiry, mediation, conciliation,
arbitration, judicial settlement, resort to regional agencies or arrangements or
other peaceful means of their choice.

 2. If no settlement is possible within a reasonable period of time not exceeding
twelve months after one State Party has notified another that a dispute exists
between them, the provisions relating to the settlement of disputes set out in
Part XVof the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, shall apply
mutatis mutandis, whether or not the States party to the dispute are also States
Parties to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982.

 3. Any procedure chosen by a State Party to this Convention and to the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, pursuant to Article 287 of the
latter, shall apply to the settlement of disputes under this article, unless that State
Party, when ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to this Convention, or at
any time thereafter, chooses another procedure pursuant to Article 287 for the
purpose of the settlement of disputes arising out of this Convention.

                                      31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

38                    Removal) Act 2017                          2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 4. A State Party to this Convention which is not a Party to the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, when ratifying, accepting, approving or
acceding to this Convention or at any time thereafter shall be free to choose, by
means of a written declaration, one or more of the means set out in Article 287,
paragraph 1, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, for
the purpose of settlement of disputes under this Article. Article 287 shall apply to
such a declaration, as well as to any dispute to which such State is party, which is
not covered by a declaration in force. For the purpose of conciliation and
arbitration, in accordance with Annexes V and VII of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, such State shall be entitled to nominate
conciliators and arbitrators to be included in the lists referred to in Annex V,
Article 2, and Annex VII, Article 2, for the settlement of disputes arising out of
this Convention.

 5. A declaration made under paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General, who shall transmit copies thereof to the States Parties.

                      Article 16

    Relationship to other conventions and international agreements

    Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the rights and obligations of any
State under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, and under
the customary international law of the sea.

                      Article 17

    Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval and accession

    This Convention shall be open for signature at the Headquarters of the
Organization from 19 November 2007 until 18 November 2008 and shall
thereafter remain open for accession.

    (a) States may express their consent to be bound by this Convention by:

    (i) signature without reservation as to ratification, acceptance or
        approval; or

    (ii) signature subject to ratification, acceptance or approval,
         followed by ratification, acceptance or approval; or

    (iii) accession.

    (b) Ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be effected by the
         deposit of an instrument to that effect with the Secretary-General.
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.  Removal) Act 2017                                        39

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

                                 Article 18

          Entry into force

 1. This Convention shall enter into force twelve months following the date on
which ten States have either signed it without reservation as to ratification,
acceptance or approval or have deposited instruments of ratification, acceptance,
approval or accession with the Secretary-General.

 2. For any State which ratifies, accepts, approves or accedes to this Convention
after the conditions in paragraph 1 for entry into force have been met, this
Convention shall enter into force three months following the date of deposit by
such State of the appropriate instrument, but not before this Convention has
entered into force in accordance with paragraph 1.

                                 Article 19

                                 Denunciation

 1. This Convention may be denounced by a State Party at any time after the
expiry of one year following the date on which this Convention comes into force
for that State.

 2. Denunciation shall be effected by the deposit of an instrument to that effect
with the Secretary-General.

 3. A denunciation shall take effect one year, or such longer period as may be
specified in the instrument of denunciation, following its receipt by the
Secretary-General.

                                 Article 20

                                 Depositary

1. This Convention shall be deposited with the Secretary-General.

2. The Secretary-General shall:

(a) inform all States which have signed or acceded to this Convention of:

          (i) each new signature or deposit of an instrument of ratification,
              acceptance, approval or accession, together with the date
              thereof;

          (ii) the date of entry into force of this Convention;

          (iii) the deposit of any instrument of denunciation of this
                Convention, together with the date of the deposit and the
                date on which the denunciation takes effect; and

          (iv) other declarations and notifications received pursuant to this
               Convention;

                                                                   31.12.2021
               Merchant Shipping (Wreck

40                      Removal) Act 2017         2020 Ed.

               FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

      (b) transmit certified true copies of this Convention to all States that have
           signed or acceded to this Convention.

 3. As soon as this Convention enters into force, a certified true copy of the text
shall be transmitted by the Secretary-General to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, for registration and publication in accordance with Article 102 of
the Charter of the United Nations.

                        Article 21

                        Languages

   This Convention is established in a single original in the Arabic, Chinese,
English, French, Russian and Spanish languages, each text being equally
authentic.

    DONE IN NAIROBI this eighteenth day of May two thousand and seven.

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized by their
respective Governments for that purpose, have signed this Convention.

                                                  ANNEX

       CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE OR OTHER FINANCIAL SECURITY
          IN RESPECT OF LIABILITY FOR THE REMOVAL OF WRECKS

      Issued in accordance with the provisions of article 12 of the Nairobi International
                            Convention on the Removal of Wrecks, 2007

Name of Gross  Distinctive IMO Ship Port of       Name and full address of
                                                  the principal place of
Ship  Tonnage  number or Identification Registry  business of the registered
                                                  owner
               letters  Number

This is to certify that there is in force, in respect of the above-named ship, a policy of insurance or
other financial security satisfying the requirements of article 12 of the Nairobi International
Convention on the Removal of Wrecks, 2007.
Type of Security ............................................................................................
Duration of Security ........................................................................................
Name and address of the insurer(s) and/or guarantor(s)
Name .........................................................................................................
Address .......................................................................................................

..............................................................................................
          Merchant Shipping (Wreck

2020 Ed.           Removal) Act 2017                                                                                             41

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          This certificate is valid until ..................................................................

          Issued or certified by the Government of .................................................
          .....................................................................................................

                   (Full designation of the State)

                   OR

The following text should be used when a State Party avails itself of article 12, paragraph 3:

The present certificate is issued under the authority of the Government of ....................................
(full designation of the State) by ............................................. (name of institution or organization)

At ............................................................On..............................................................

          (Place)                                   (Date)

                                                             .........................................................................
                                                     (Signature and Title of issuing or certifying official)

                                  Explanatory Notes:

1 If desired, the designation of the State may include a reference to the
   competent public authority of the country where the Certificate is issued.

2 If the total amount of security has been furnished by more than one source, the
   amount of each of them should be indicated.

3 If security is furnished in several forms, these should be enumerated.

4 The entry “Duration of Security” must stipulate the date on which such
   security takes effect.

5 The entry “Address” of the insurer(s) and/or guarantor(s) must indicate the
   principal place of business of the insurer(s) and/or guarantor(s). If
   appropriate, the place of business where the insurance or other security is
   established shall be indicated.

                                                                                                                                 31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping (Wreck

42  Removal) Act 2017         2020 Ed.

                         SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                       Sections 14(2) and 30(b)

                                   EXCLUDED SHIP
For the purposes of section 14, an excluded ship is a ship which —

       (a) is operated under a licence or permit, or is exempted from the
            requirement of a licence or permit under —

    (i) the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (Harbour Craft)
        Regulations; or

            (ii) the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (Pleasure Craft)
                  Regulations;

    (b) is insured under such policy of insurance covering the registered
         owner’s liability under this Act as required by the Port Master under
         those Regulations; and

    (c) navigates exclusively in areas within the limits of the port as may be
         declared under section 3 of the Maritime and Port Authority of
         Singapore Act 1996.
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
MERCHANT SHIPPING (WRECK REMOVAL) ACT 2017

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 25 of 2017 — Merchant Shipping (Wreck Removal) Act 2017

       Bill                          : 19/2017

       First Reading                 : 3 April 2017

       Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2017

       Commencement                  : 8 September 2017

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                     31.12.2021
                     COMPARATIVE TABLE
MERCHANT SHIPPING (WRECK REMOVAL) ACT 2017

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.                    Act 25 of 2017
[Omitted as having had effect]  32

                                                              31.12.2021
