THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
         NATIONAL LIBRARY BOARD ACT 1995

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                                                                    2020 Ed.

National Library Board Act 1995

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT, CONSTITUTION, FUNCTIONS
                           AND POWERS OF BOARD

 3. Establishment of National Library Board
 4. Common seal
 5. Constitution of Board
 6. Functions of Board
 7. Powers of Board
 8. Directors and advisory committees for libraries
 9. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers
10. Deposit of library materials
11. Establishment of national union catalogue
12. Participation in interlibrary loan scheme
13. Directions by Minister

                                       PART 2A

                  NATIONAL ARCHIVES OF SINGAPORE
                       AND ORAL HISTORY CENTRES

14. National Archives of Singapore
15. Appointment of Director of National Archives
16. Transfer of public records to National Archives
17. Destruction or disposal of public records only on authority of

         Board
18. Inspection of public records and recordings
19. Certified copy of public records
20. Reproduction of public records and recordings

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                                 2

Section   Prohibition of export, etc., of public records
   21.    Deposit of certain recordings
   22.    Oral history centres
   23.    Transfer of archive undertakings, etc., from National Heritage
   24.    Board
          Transfer of employees from National Heritage Board, etc.
   25.

                                        PART 3
                     PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

26. Chief executive officer
27. Appointment of staff

                                        PART 4

                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

28. Funds of Board
29. Bank accounts and application of moneys
30. Power of investment
31. Power to borrow
32. Issue of shares, etc.
33. Grants
34. Establishment of National Library Board Endowment Fund
35. Financial year

                                        PART 5

       TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

36. Transfer of assets and liabilities
37. Existing agreements, etc.
38. Pending legal proceedings
39. Transfer of employees
40. Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved
41. No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office
42. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
43. Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

                                        PART 6
                       MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
44. Board’s symbol

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
3        National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Section  Composition of offences
         Protection from personal liability
   45.   Regulations
   46.   Transitional provision
   47.   The Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Board
   48.

An Act to establish and incorporate the National Library Board, to
  transfer to it the National Library and for matters connected
  therewith.

                                                          [1 September 1995]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the National Library Board Act 1995.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Board” means the National Library Board established under
         section 3;

      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board and includes
         any temporary Chairperson of the Board;

      “chief executive officer” means the chief executive officer of the
         Board and includes any person acting in that capacity;

      “Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
         Board and includes any temporary Deputy Chairperson of the
         Board;

      “Fund” means the National Library Board Endowment Fund
         established under section 34;

      “library information service” means any information service
         provided and managed in conjunction with a library or library
         service;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           4

“library materials” means —

          (a) any book, periodical, newspaper, pamphlet, musical
               score, map, chart, plan, picture, photograph or matter,
               in printed or electronic form;

          (b) any visual image (including a computer‑generated
               image) or sound, or aggregate of visual images or
               sounds or both, or data —

          (i) embodied in or recorded on a film (including a
              microfilm or a microfiche), negative, tape, disc,
              sound track or other device or thing, so as to be
              capable (with or without the aid of some other
              equipment) of being reproduced from it; or

          (ii) transmitted by electronic means; and

          (c) any online material made available on a Singapore
              website;

“member” means a member of the Board;

“National Archives” means the National Archives of Singapore
   transferred by the Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments)
   (No. 2) Act 2012 to the Board and administered in
   accordance with Part 2A;

“National Heritage Board” means the National Heritage Board
   established under section 3 of the National Heritage Board
   Act 1993;

“online material” means any writing, visual image, video, sound
   recording or data accessible to the public generally, through
   the Internet on a website;

“printed”, in relation to books or other materials, means
   produced by printing, lithography, duplication or any other
   like process, and “printer” has a corresponding meaning;

“public archives” means those public records that —

          (a) are more than 25 years old;

          (b) are specified by the Board as being of national or
               historical significance; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
5  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

   (c) have been transferred to the Board or to any other
       place that the Board may determine;

   “public office” means any department, office, institution,
      agency, commission, board, local authority or statutory
      body or any other office of the Government or branch or
      subdivision thereof, and any other body that the President
      may, by notification in the Gazette, declare to be a public
      office;

   “public records” means papers, documents, records, registers,
      printed materials, books, maps, plans, drawings,
      photographs, microforms, videotapes, films,
      machine‑readable and electronic records, sound recordings
      and other forms of records of any kind, that are produced or
      received by any public office in the transaction of official
      business, or by any officer in the course of his or her official
      duties, and includes public archives;

   “publicly funded libraries” means all libraries owned by the
      Government or any statutory body and such other libraries
      which are, directly or indirectly, funded by the Government
      (whether fully or partially) as the Board may determine;

   “published in Singapore”, in relation to library materials other
      than online material, means produced and released in
      Singapore for sale or public distribution;

   “publisher” means any person who arranges for any library
      material to be published in Singapore;

   “Singapore website” means —

   (a) any website, the country code top level domain of
        which is associated with Singapore; or

   (b) any prescribed website or electronic service
        associated with Singapore.

                                                                                          [30/2018]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           6

          PART 2

          ESTABLISHMENT, CONSTITUTION, FUNCTIONS
                         AND POWERS OF BOARD

Establishment of National Library Board

 3. A body called the National Library Board is established, which is
a body corporate with perpetual succession and is by that name
capable of —

(a) suing and being sued;

(b) acquiring, owning, holding, developing and disposing of
     property, both movable and immovable; and

          (c) doing and suffering all such acts or things as bodies
              corporate may lawfully do or suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) The Board must have a common seal which must be kept in
such custody as the Board thinks fit.

 (2) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the Board
must be sealed with the common seal of the Board and every
document to which the common seal is affixed must be signed by any
2 members of the Board generally or specially authorised by the
Board for the purpose or by one member so authorised and the chief
executive officer.

 (3) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Board affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Constitution of Board
 5.—(1) The Board consists of —
       (a) a Chairperson;
       (b) a Deputy Chairperson; and
       (c) not less than 10 but not more than 20 other members as the
            Minister may determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
7  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (2) The Schedule has effect with respect to the Board, its members
and proceedings.

Functions of Board

 6. The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to establish and maintain libraries and to provide library
            information services;

       (b) to promote reading and encourage learning through the use
            of libraries and their services;

       (c) to provide a repository for library materials published in
            Singapore;

       (d) to acquire and maintain a comprehensive collection of
            library materials relating to Singapore and its people;

       (e) to establish standards for the training of library personnel
            in Singapore;

        (f) to provide advisory and consultancy services concerning
            libraries and library information services;

       (g) to compile and maintain a national union catalogue and a
            national bibliography;

       (h) to advise the Government on national needs and policies in
            respect of matters relating to publicly funded libraries and
            library information services in Singapore;

        (i) to provide a permanent repository of records of national or
            historical significance and to facilitate access to those
            records;

        (j) to conduct records management programmes for the
            Government; and

       (k) to record, preserve and disseminate the history of
            Singapore through oral history methodology or other
            means.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.         National Library Board Act 1995                    8

Powers of Board

 7.—(1) The Board has power to do all things necessary or
convenient to be done for or in connection with the performance of
its functions.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Board
include power —

(a) to develop and manage libraries established by the Board;

(b) to develop a computer network of libraries in Singapore;

          (c) to define, develop and implement the national collection
              policy and strategy, and appoint different libraries and
              centres to collect library materials on different subject
              areas of importance and interest to Singapore;

(d) to coordinate and facilitate access to library materials in all
     publicly funded libraries;

          (e) to obtain and provide information on the resources and
              services of libraries in Singapore;

          (f) to take appropriate measures to maintain and preserve
              library materials deposited with the Board under section 10
              or otherwise acquired by the Board;

(g) to make copies of any online material made available on a
     Singapore website, at the times and in the manner the
     Board considers appropriate;

(h) to establish liaison with other library authorities and
     information providers and other archives and oral history
     centres (foreign or otherwise) to secure maximum
     collaboration of all activities relevant to the Board’s
     functions;

          (i) to undertake or sponsor programmes for the training of
              persons in the profession and skills involved in the
              operations of libraries, archives and oral history centres;

          (j) to arrange for or provide professional and technical
              services in connection with libraries on such terms and
              conditions as the Board may determine;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
9  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

   (k) to undertake and facilitate research on libraries,
       librarianship, archival work and oral history;

   (l) to raise funds by all lawful means and to receive gifts and
       donations, whether on trust or otherwise;

   (m) to extend grants, contributions or loans to any person or
        organisation connected with the national literary heritage
        or library development in Singapore for purposes
        consistent with the provisions of this Act;

   (n) to enter into contracts and establish trusts;

   (o) to enter into joint ventures with any person or organisation,
        or form or participate in the formation of a company;

   (p) to provide or undertake publicity in any form; and

   (q) to charge fees, commissions or rent for any services or
        facilities provided by the Board.

                                                                                                    [30/2018]

Directors and advisory committees for libraries

 8. The Board may appoint directors for the general management
and control of the libraries it has established and may also appoint
advisory committees to advise on the operations and services of those
libraries.

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 9.—(1) The Board may appoint, from among its own members or
other persons who are not members of the Board, any number of
committees that it may think fit consisting of members or other
persons or members and other persons for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Board, would be better regulated and managed by
means of those committees.

 (2) The Board may, subject to any conditions or restrictions that it
may think fit, delegate to any such committee or to any member,
officer or employee of the Board, any of the functions or powers of
the Board under this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           10

Deposit of library materials

 10.—(1) Except as otherwise provided by regulations, the publisher
of every library material (other than online material) published in
Singapore must, at the publisher’s own expense —

(a) subject to paragraph (b), deposit 2 copies of that library
     material with the Board at a place determined by the Board
     within 4 weeks after the date of first publication; and

       (b) where the library material is in electronic form, deposit a
            copy of that library material with the Board in the form and
            manner determined by the Board, free of any technological
            or other restriction on access, within 4 weeks after the date
            of first publication.

                                                                                                           [30/2018]

 (2) The Board may by regulations made under section 47
prescribe —

(a) the library materials which are not required to be deposited
     with the Board; and

       (b) the quality and the format of the copies of library materials
            required to be deposited, and the manner in which they
            must be deposited.

                                                                                                           [30/2018]

 (3) Every publisher of any library material who contravenes this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Establishment of national union catalogue

 11.—(1) All publicly funded libraries must contribute their
cataloguing and holding records, whether original or derived from
other sources, towards the establishment of an up‑to‑date national
union catalogue.

 (2) The Board may by regulations made under section 47
prescribe —

       (a) the standard and the format of the cataloguing and holding
            records required to be sent to the Board; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
11  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) the frequency of updating the cataloguing and holding
         records in the national union catalogue.

                                                                                                     [30/2018]

Participation in interlibrary loan scheme

 12. All publicly funded libraries must participate in such scheme
for interlibrary loan and interlibrary information services as may be
established by the Board in consultation with such libraries.

Directions by Minister

 13.—(1) The Minister may give to the Board any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board must give the Minister such information with regard
to its property and activities as the Minister may require.

                                                                               [14

                                   PART 2A

              NATIONAL ARCHIVES OF SINGAPORE
                   AND ORAL HISTORY CENTRES

National Archives of Singapore

 14.—(1) On 28 March 2013, the National Archives of Singapore in
which records of national or historical significance are preserved is
transferred from the National Heritage Board to the Board.

 (2) The Board —

       (a) must examine the public records in any public office and
            advise that office as to their care and custody;

       (b) must take necessary measures to classify, identify, preserve
            and restore public records;

       (c) must make known information concerning archives by any
            means, including publications, exhibitions and heritage
            promotional activities;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           12

(d) must conduct a records management programme for the
     efficient creation, utilisation, maintenance, retention,
     preservation and disposal of public records;

          (e) must advise public offices concerning standards and
              procedures pertaining to the management of public
              records;

          (f) may provide information, consultation, research and other
              services related to archives;

(g) may, subject to the terms and conditions (if any) on which
     the public archives were acquired, reproduce or publish
     any public archives; and

(h) may acquire by purchase, donations, bequest or otherwise
     any document, book or other material which, in the opinion
     of the Board, is or is likely to be of national or historical
     significance.
                                                                     [14A

Appointment of Director of National Archives

 15.—(1) The Board must appoint an officer of the Board as the
Director of National Archives, who is responsible to the Board for the
general management and control of the National Archives.

 (2) The Director of National Archives, and any person acting on
behalf or under the direction of the Director of National Archives,
must, with respect to access to public records, satisfy any security
requirements applicable to, and take any oath of secrecy required to
be taken by, persons who normally have access to the public records.

 (3) To avoid doubt, where an oath of secrecy is required to be taken
under subsection (2), a person may take the oath by appearing before
the person administering the oath through a live video link or live
television link created using a remote communication technology that
allows the person administering the oath to —

       (a) maintain visual contact and communicate with the person
            taking the oath, and any interpreter present, throughout the
            process; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
13  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) confirm the identity of the person taking the oath and any
         interpreter present.

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2023 wef 01/12/2023]

                                                                         [14B

Transfer of public records to National Archives

 16. Any public records which, in the opinion of the Board, are of
national or historical significance must be transferred to the care and
control of the National Archives in accordance with such schedules or
other agreements for the transfer of records as may be agreed on
between the Board and the public office responsible for the public
records.

                                                                             [14C

Destruction or disposal of public records only on authority of
Board

 17.—(1) A person must not, without the authorisation of the Board
under subsection (4), destroy or otherwise dispose of, or authorise the
destruction or disposal of, any public records which are in the
person’s possession or under the person’s control.

 (2) Any person intending to destroy or dispose of, or to authorise
the destruction or disposal of, any public records must first notify the
Board of that intention and must, in the person’s notification, specify
the nature of the public records in question.

 (3) The Board may inspect any public records specified in any
notification under subsection (2) and must, if it requires those records
to be made available to it, inform the person making the notification
of that requirement, and the public records must be made available to
the Board.

 (4) The Board may authorise the destruction of any specified
classes of public records which by reason of their number, kind or
routine nature do not in its opinion possess any enduring value for
preservation as public archives.

                                                                             [14D

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           14

Inspection of public records and recordings

 18.—(1) Except with the written authority of the Director of
National Archives, a person who is not an officer of the National
Archives must not inspect any public records or recordings that are
not made available to the public under subsection (2).

 (2) Any person may, for the purpose of reference or research,
inspect any public archives or recordings made available to the public
subject to —

(a) any conditions or restrictions imposed with the authority of
     the public office from which the public archives were
     acquired or the producer or distributor which provided the
     recordings, as the case may be; and

(b) any conditions that the Director of National Archives may
     consider necessary for their preservation.

 (3) The National Archives are to be open for the inspection of
public records during such hours as the Board may determine.

 (4) In this section, “recording” means any recording deposited with
the Board under section 22.

                                                                             [14E

Certified copy of public records

 19. Any copy of a public record which is certified by the Director of
National Archives as a true copy of the original document is
admissible in a court of law.

                                                                             [14F

Reproduction of public records and recordings

 20.—(1) A person must not publish or reproduce the whole or any
part of the contents of any public records which have been transferred
to the National Archives or of any recording which has been
deposited under section 22 except with the written consent of the
Director of National Archives and in accordance with any conditions
or restrictions that may be imposed with the authority of —

       (a) the public office from which the public records were
            acquired; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
15  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) the producer or distributor which provided the recordings,

as the case may be.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be construed as affecting or
extending the law relating to copyright.

                                                                             [14G

Prohibition of export, etc., of public records

 21.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) without the written permission of the Board, take or send
            out of Singapore any public records;

       (b) write on, mark, inscribe or otherwise deface any public
            records; or

       (c) mutilate, excise or otherwise damage any public records.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                             [14H

Deposit of certain recordings

 22.—(1) The producer or distributor of a recording must, within
6 months after a request in writing is made by the Board, provide
(without charge) the Board with a copy of the recording in such form
as may be specified in the request.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           16

(3) This section does not apply to or in respect of —

(a) a recording that has not been broadcast or made public in
     Singapore; or

(b) any recording of a class or kind that is exempted from the
     application of this section by any regulations that the
     Minister may make for the purpose.

 (4) In this section, “recording” means anything in which sounds are
embodied or on which images are fixed or both, regardless of form.

                                                                              [14I

Oral history centres

 23.—(1) The Board may, in addition to any oral history centre
transferred under section 24, establish any other oral history centre
for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The purposes of any oral history centre transferred to the Board
under section 24 or established by the Board under this section are —

       (a) to collect, document and disseminate information on the
            history of Singapore through oral history methodology or
            other means;

       (b) to interview persons who have influenced or participated in
            the history of Singapore, to preserve these interviews and
            to produce transcripts of selected interviews;

       (c) to preserve and care for the recordings and transcripts of
            such interviews;

       (d) to allow access to the recordings and transcripts of such
            interviews to persons seeking to inspect them in
            connection with study or research subject to any
            conditions or restrictions imposed by the interviewee or
            the Board; and

       (e) to disseminate information on the collection and work of
            the centre by any means, including publications,
            audiovisual educational packages, exhibitions,
            consultations, research and heritage promotional activities.
                                                                              [14J

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
17  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Transfer of archive undertakings, etc., from National Heritage
Board

 24.—(1) All the lands, buildings and other property, movable or
immovable, vested in the National Heritage Board immediately
before 28 March 2013 (called in this section the transfer date) for the
purposes of —

    (a) the National Archives; or

    (b) any oral history centre established by the National Heritage
         Board,

and all assets, powers, interests, rights, privileges, debts, liabilities
and obligations of the National Heritage Board relating to
paragraph (a) or (b) become, on the transfer date, by virtue of this
section and without further assurance, the property, assets, powers,
interests, rights, privileges, debts, liabilities and obligations of the
Board.

 (2) Every agreement relating to any of the properties, assets,
interests, rights, privileges, liabilities or obligations transferred under
subsection (1) and to which the National Heritage Board was a party
immediately before the transfer date, whether or not of such nature
that the rights and liabilities could be assigned, has effect as from that
date as if —

    (a) the Board had been a party to such an agreement; and

    (b) for any reference to the National Heritage Board there were
         substituted in respect of anything to be done on or after the
         transfer date a reference to the Board.

 (3) If any question arises as to whether any particular property,
asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or obligation has been
transferred to or vested in the Board under subsection (1), a
certificate under the hand of the Minister charged with the
responsibility for finance is conclusive evidence that the property,
asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or obligation was or was not
so transferred or vested.

 (4) Any proceedings or cause of action pending or existing
immediately before the transfer date by or against the National

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           18

Heritage Board relating to the National Archives or any oral history
centre transferred under subsection (1) may be continued and are to
be enforced by or against the Board.

 (5) The operation of subsections (1), (2) and (3) is not to be
regarded —

(a) as a breach of contract or confidence or otherwise as a civil
     wrong;

(b) as a breach of any contractual provision prohibiting,
     restricting or regulating the assignment or transfer of assets
     or liabilities;

          (c) as giving rise to any remedy by a party to a legal
              instrument, or as causing or permitting the termination of
              any legal instrument, because of a change in the beneficial
              or legal ownership of any asset or liability; or

(d) as an event of default under any contract or other legal
     instrument.

 (6) Any provision in any existing contract, agreement, conveyance,
deed, lease, guarantee, bond, indemnity and other instrument or
undertaking to which the National Heritage Board is a party or may
be bound prohibiting or having the effect of prohibiting the transfer of
any property, assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities or
obligations comprised in the undertaking transferred under
subsection (1) is deemed by this Act to have been waived.

 (7) No attornment to the Board by a lessee from the National
Heritage Board is required.

                                                                             [14K

Transfer of employees from National Heritage Board, etc.

 25.—(1) On 28 March 2013 (called in this section the transfer date),
such categories of persons employed by the National Heritage Board
immediately before that date in —

       (a) the National Archives; or

       (b) any oral history centre established by the National Heritage
            Board,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
19  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

as the Minister may determine are transferred to the service of the
Board on terms no less favourable than those enjoyed by them
immediately prior to their transfer.

 (2) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Board, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in the
National Heritage Board continue to apply to every person
transferred to the service of the Board under subsection (1) as if he
or she were still in the service of the National Heritage Board.

 (3) The terms and conditions of employment to be drawn up by the
Board —

    (a) must take into account the salaries and terms and
         conditions of service, including any accrued rights to
         leave, enjoyed by the persons transferred to the service of
         the Board under this section while in the employment of
         the National Heritage Board;

    (b) in the case of any such term or condition relating to the
         length of service with the Board, must provide for the
         recognition of service under the National Heritage Board
         by the persons so transferred as service by them under the
         Board; and

    (c) must not adversely affect the conditions that would have
        been applicable to persons transferred to the service of the
        Board as regards any pension, gratuity or allowance
        payable under the Pensions Act 1956.

 (4) All deeds, schemes, bonds, agreements, instruments and
arrangements subsisting immediately before the transfer date to
which the National Heritage Board is a party and relating to any
person transferred to the service of the Board under subsection (1)
continue in force on and after that date and are enforceable by or
against the Board as if the Board had been named therein or had been
a party thereto instead of the National Heritage Board.

 (5) Any proceedings or cause of action relating to any employee
transferred to the service of the Board under subsection (1) pending or
existing immediately before the transfer date by or against the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           20

National Heritage Board, or any person acting on its behalf, may be
continued and are to be enforced by or against the Board.

(6) Where on the transfer date —

(a) any disciplinary proceedings were pending against any
     employee of the National Heritage Board transferred to the
     service of the Board under subsection (1), the proceedings
     are to be carried on and completed by the Board; and

(b) any matter was in the course of being heard or investigated
     or had been heard or investigated by a committee of the
     National Heritage Board acting under due authority but no
     order, ruling or decision had been made thereon, the
     committee is to complete the hearing or investigation and
     make such order, ruling or direction as it could have made
     under the authority vested in it before that date.

 (7) Any order, ruling or direction made by such a committee
pursuant to subsection (6) is to be treated as an order, a ruling or a
direction of the Board and has the same force or effect as if it had been
made by the Board pursuant to the authority vested in the Board under
this Act.

 (8) The Board may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in some other manner a person transferred to the service of the
Board under subsection (1) for any misconduct or neglect of duty
committed before the transfer date which would have rendered that
person liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or
punished in some other manner if that person had continued to be in
the employment of the National Heritage Board and if this Act had
not been enacted.

 (9) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this section of any employee of the
National Heritage Board to the Board.

 (10) Notwithstanding any other written law or any contract, no
person who is transferred from the National Heritage Board to the
service of the Board under subsection (1) is entitled to claim any
benefit under that written law or contract for termination of his or her
service on the ground of redundancy or abolition of his or her office in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
21  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

consequence of the transfer of the National Archives or any oral
history centre from the National Heritage Board to the Board.

 (11) Except as otherwise provided in this section, nothing in
subsection (1) prevents the terms and conditions of a transferred
employee’s employment on or after the transfer date from being
varied in accordance with those terms and conditions, or by or under
any written law, or an award, a determination or an agreement; and
“vary”, in relation to terms and conditions of service, includes
omitting any of those terms and conditions, adding to those terms and
conditions, or substituting new terms and conditions for any of those
terms and conditions.

 (12) In every case where a person transferred to the service of the
Board under this section is also a person transferred from the
employment of the Government to the National Heritage Board under
section 40 of the National Heritage Board Act 1993, the Government
and the National Heritage Board are each liable to pay the Board such
portion of any gratuity, pension or allowance payable under the
Pensions Act 1956 to such person on his or her retirement as the same
bears to the proportion which the aggregate amount of his or her
pensionable emoluments during his or her service with the
Government and the National Heritage Board, respectively, bears
to the aggregate amount of his or her pensionable emoluments during
his or her total service under the Government, the National Heritage
Board and the Board.

                                                                             [14L

                                    PART 3

                 PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Chief executive officer

 26.—(1) There must be a chief executive officer of the Board,
whose appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the chief

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           22

executive officer during any period, or during all periods, when the
chief executive officer —

(a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

(b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
     office.
                                                                       [15

                                                                                                  [5/2018]

Appointment of staff

 27. The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance) Act
2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                               [16

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 4
                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
Funds of Board
 28. The funds of the Board consist of —
       (a) all moneys received by the Board by way of grants;
       (b) all gifts, donations and contributions to the Board;
       (c) all fees, commissions, rents, interests, dividends and other
            income accruing to the Board;
       (d) all moneys borrowed by the Board under this Act; and
       (e) all other moneys lawfully received by the Board for the
            purposes of the Board.

                                                                               [18

Bank accounts and application of moneys
 29.—(1) The Board may open and maintain an account or accounts

with such bank or banks as the Board thinks fit and every such
account must be operated as far as practicable by cheque signed by
such person or persons authorised to do so by the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
23  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (2) The moneys of the Board must be applied only in payment or
discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Board and
in making any payments that the Board is authorised or required to
make.

                                                                               [19

Power of investment

 30. The Board may invest its funds in accordance with the standard
investment power of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                               [20

Power to borrow

 31. The Board may from time to time for the purposes of this Act
raise loans from the Government or, with the consent of the Minister,
from any other source.

                                                                               [21

Issue of shares, etc.

 32. As a consequence of the vesting of any property, rights or
liabilities of the Government in the Board under this Act, or of any
capital injection or other investment by the Government in the Board
in accordance with any written law, the Board must issue such shares
or other securities to the Minister for Finance as that Minister may
from time to time direct.

                                                                             [21A

Grants

 33. For the purpose of enabling the Board to carry out its functions
under this Act, the Minister may from time to time make grants to the
Board of such sums of money as the Minister may determine out of
moneys to be provided by Parliament.

                                                                               [22

Establishment of National Library Board Endowment Fund

 34.—(1) A fund called the National Library Board Endowment
Fund is established, which vests in the Board and consists of —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           24

(a) all moneys received by the Board by gifts, bequests or
     otherwise for the Fund;

(b) any contributions to the Fund that the Minister may specify
     from moneys provided by Parliament; and

          (c) any other moneys that the Board may decide to transfer to
              the Fund.

 (2) The income of the Fund is to be applied for all or any of the
following purposes:

(a) the provision of training programmes and scholarships for
     librarians and persons working in libraries;

(b) the delivery of lectures by distinguished persons in the
     field of library and information science;

          (c) the sponsorship of major library promotional programmes;

(d) the financing of research on reading and librarianship;

          (e) any other purposes consistent with this Act that the Board
              may decide.
                                                                                 [23

Financial year

 35. The financial year of the Board begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                               [24

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 5

   TRANSFER OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

Transfer of assets and liabilities

 36.—(1) As from 1 September 1995, all movable property vested in
the Government immediately before that date and used or managed
by the National Library and all assets, rights, interests, liabilities and
obligations of the Government relating to the National Library are
transferred to and vest in the Board without further assurance.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
25  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (2) As from 1 September 1995, the Board controls and manages all
the libraries which are under the control of the National Library.

 (3) If any question arises as to whether any particular property, or
whether any particular asset, right, interest, liability or obligation has
been transferred to or vested in the Board under subsection (1), a
certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance is conclusive
evidence that the property, asset, right, interest, liability or obligation
was or was not so transferred or vested.

                                                                               [25

Existing agreements, etc.

 37. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements,
subsisting immediately before 1 September 1995, affecting any of the
property, rights, interests, liabilities and obligations transferred to or
vested in the Board under section 36(1) continue in force on and after
that date and are enforceable by or against the Board as if, instead of
the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government, the
Board had been named therein or had been a party thereto.

                                                                               [26

Pending legal proceedings

 38. Any proceedings or cause of action pending or existing
immediately before 1 September 1995 by or against the
Government or any person acting on behalf of the Government
relating to the National Library may be continued and enforced by or
against the Board.

                                                                               [27

Transfer of employees

 39.—(1) As from 1 September 1995, such categories of persons
employed immediately before that date in the National Library as the
Minister may determine are transferred to the service of the Board on
terms no less favourable than those enjoyed by them immediately
prior to their transfer.

 (2) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Board, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in the
Government continue to apply to every person transferred to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           26

service of the Board under subsection (1) as if he or she were still in
the service of the Government.

                                                                               [28

Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved

 40.—(1) The terms and conditions of service of persons transferred
to the service of the Board under section 39 must take into account the
salaries and terms and conditions of service, including any accrued
rights to leave, enjoyed by such persons while in the employment of
the Government and any such term or condition relating to the length
of service with the Board must provide for the recognition of service
under the Government by persons so transferred to be service by them
under the Board.

 (2) Nothing in the terms and conditions of service to be drawn up by
the Board adversely affects the conditions that would have been
applicable to persons transferred to the service of the Board as regards
any pension, gratuity or allowance payable under the Pensions
Act 1956.

 (3) In every case where a person has been transferred to the service
of the Board under section 39, the Government is liable to pay the
Board such portion of any gratuity, pension or allowance payable to
that person on his or her retirement as the same bears to the proportion
which the aggregate amount of his or her pensionable emoluments
during his or her service with the Government bears to the aggregate
amount of his or her pensionable emoluments during his or her
service under both the Government and the Board.

                                                                               [29

No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office

 41. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, no
person who is transferred to the service of the Board under section 39
is entitled to claim any benefit under the Pensions Act 1956 on the
ground that he or she has been retired from the service of the
Government on account of abolition or reorganisation of office in
consequence of the establishment and incorporation of the Board.

                                                                               [30

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
27  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings

 42.—(1) Where on 1 September 1995, any disciplinary proceedings
are pending against any person transferred to the service of the Board
under section 39, any committee acting under due authority to hear or
investigate the matter continues to exist, notwithstanding this Act, for
the purpose of completing the hearing or investigation and the
making of an order or rendering a decision (as the case may be), and
the Government or committee is to complete the hearing or
investigation in accordance with the authority vested in the
Government or committee immediately before that date and make
such order, ruling or direction as the Government or committee could
have made under the authority vested in it immediately before that
date.

 (2) Any order, ruling or direction made or given by the Government
or committee pursuant to this section is to be treated as an order, a
ruling or a direction of the Board and has the same force or effect as if
it had been made or given by the Board pursuant to the power vested
in the Board under this Act.

                                                                               [31

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 43. The Board may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in some other manner a person transferred to the service of the
Board under section 39 for any misconduct or neglect of duty
committed prior to 1 September 1995 which would have rendered
him or her liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished in some other manner if he or she had
continued to be in the employment of the Government and if this Act
had not been enacted.

                                                                               [32

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.        National Library Board Act 1995                     28

                PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Board’s symbol

 44.—(1) The Board has the exclusive right to use such symbol or
representation as it may select or devise and display or exhibit in
connection with its activities or affairs.

 (2) A person who, without the permission of the Board, uses a
symbol or representation identical with that of the Board or which so
resembles the Board’s symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
confusion, or to be likely to deceive or cause confusion, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                               [33

Composition of offences

 45.—(1) The chief executive officer, or an officer or employee of
the Board authorised in writing by the Board, may compound any
offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $500.

                                                                                                           [30/2018]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2018]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                             [33A

                                                                                                           [30/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 46. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any member, officer or employee of the Board or other person acting
under the direction of the Board for anything which is in good faith

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
29  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

done or intended to be done in the execution or purported execution
of this Act.

                                                                               [34

Regulations

 47.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act
and for prescribing any matter which may be prescribed under this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may —

       (a) provide for the use of its libraries and library buildings and
            of their contents, fittings and furniture, and for protecting
            them from injury, destruction or misuse;

       (b) require from any persons using its libraries a guarantee or
            security against the loss of, or injury to, any library
            materials belonging to the libraries;

       (c) provide for the use, custody, preservation, reproduction,
            removal, destruction and disposal of public records and
            other documents under this Act;

       (d) provide for regulating the taking of oral history recordings
            and transcripts;

       (e) enable the officers or employees of the Board to exclude or
            remove from its libraries, library buildings, the National
            Archives, any oral history centre or any other land or
            building owned by or under the control of the Board
            persons committing any offence under this Act or any of its
            regulations;

        (f) provide for the preservation of order and the prevention of
            nuisance in any library, library building, the National
            Archives, any oral history centre or any other land or
            building owned by or under the control of the Board;

       (g) fix the days and times of admission to its libraries;

       (h) provide for the admission of vehicles to the grounds of its
            libraries and the regulation of traffic in those grounds;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           30

          (i) prescribe the charges for the damage, loss or late return of
              borrowed library materials and for the waiving or refund of
              those charges; and

          (j) prescribe that any act or omission in contravention of the
              provisions of any regulations made under this Act shall be
              an offence and imposing penalties for those offences,
              which penalties shall not exceed a fine of $5,000.
                                                                                 [35

                                                                                                          [30/2018]

Transitional provision

 48. Any scheme, contract, document, certificate, licence,
permission or resolution prepared, made, granted or approved
under the repealed National Library Act (Cap. 197, 1985 Revised
Edition) continues and is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, deemed to have been prepared, made, granted
or approved under this Act.

                                                                               [36

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 5(2)

               CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF BOARD

Appointment of Chairperson, Deputy Chairperson and other members

 1.—(1) The Chairperson, the Deputy Chairperson and other members must be
appointed by the Minister.

 (2) The Deputy Chairperson may, subject to any directions that the Chairperson
may give, exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by the Chairperson under
this Act.

 (3) The Minister may appoint the chief executive officer to be a member of the
Board.

Tenure of office of members

 2. The Chairperson, the Deputy Chairperson and every other member hold
office on such terms and conditions and for such period as the Minister may
determine and are eligible for re‑appointment.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
31  National Library Board Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

Temporary Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson

 3. The Minister may appoint any member to be a temporary Chairperson or a
temporary Deputy Chairperson during the temporary incapacity from illness or
otherwise, or during the temporary absence from Singapore, of the Chairperson or
the Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

Temporary members

 4. The Minister may appoint any person to be a temporary member during the
temporary incapacity from illness or otherwise, or during the temporary absence
from Singapore, of any member.

Revocation of appointment

 5. The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of the Chairperson or
the Deputy Chairperson or any member without giving any reason.

Resignation

 6. Any member may resign from his or her appointment at any time by giving
written notice to the Minister.

Vacation of office
 7. The office of a member is vacated if the member —

        (a) becomes in any manner disqualified for membership of the Board; or
        (b) has been absent, without leave of the Board, from 3 consecutive

             meetings of the Board.

Filling of vacancy in office of member

 8. If a member dies, resigns or has his or her appointment revoked or otherwise
vacates his or her office before the expiry of the term for which he or she has been
appointed, another person may be appointed by the Minister for the unexpired
period of the term of office of the member in whose place he or she is appointed.

Disqualification from membership

 9. A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as a member if he or
she —

        (a) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement or
             composition with his or her creditors; or

        (b) is convicted of an offence involving dishonesty, fraud or moral
             turpitude and has not received a free pardon.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2020 Ed.  National Library Board Act 1995                           32

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Salaries, fees and allowances payable to members

 10. There are to be paid to the Chairperson, the Deputy Chairperson and other
members out of the funds of the Board such salaries, fees and allowances as the
Minister may determine.

Meetings of Board

 11.—(1) The Board is to meet for the despatch of business at such times and
places as the Chairperson may appoint.

 (2) At every meeting of the Board, one half of the total number of members
forms a quorum.

 (3) Decisions at meetings of the Board are to be adopted by a simple majority of
the votes of the members present and voting and, in the case of an equality of
votes, the Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy Chairperson or the
member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or her original vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson presides at
meetings of the Board.

 (5) Where both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson are absent at a
meeting, such member as the members present may elect presides at the meeting.

 (6) The Board may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Board may make rules to regulate its own procedure and, in
particular, for the holding and proceedings of meetings, the notice to be given of
the meetings, the keeping of minutes and the custody, production and inspection of
the minutes.

Validity of proceedings

 12. The validity of any proceedings of the Board is not affected by any defect in
the appointment of any member.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
              NATIONAL LIBRARY BOARD ACT 1995

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                              PART 1
                THE BOOK REGISTRATION

                      ORDINANCE 1886
                (ORDINANCE XV OF 1886)

1. Ordinance XV of 1886 — The Book Registration Ordinance 1886

Bill                  : G.N. No. 407/1886

First Reading         : 19 August 1886

Second Reading        : 20 October 1886

Notice of Amendments  : 15 November 1886

Third Reading         : 18 November 1886

Commencement          : 1 January 1887

                             PART 2
               NATIONAL LIBRARY ACT
      (CHAPTER 197, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

2. Ordinance 31 of 1957 — Raffles National Library Ordinance, 1957

Bill                  : 112/1957

First Reading         : 21 August 1957

Second and Third Readings : 11 September 1957

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                      ii

Commencement          : 1 April 1958

Note: This Ordinance repealed the Raffles Societies Ordinance
        (Chapter 312, 1955 Revised Edition) so far as it relates to the
        Raffles Library.

3. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

4. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                   Order, 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959

5. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

6. Ordinance 66 of 1960 — Raffles National Library (Change of Name)
                                    Ordinance, 1960

   (Amendments made by section 2 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 105/1960

First Reading         : 16 November 1960

Second and Third Readings : 29 November 1960

Commencement          : 9 December 1960 (section 2)

Note: The Raffles National Library Ordinance, 1957 was renamed as the
        National Library Ordinance, 1957 by this Ordinance.

7. Act 11 of 1968 — National Library (Amendment) Act, 1968

Bill                  : 12/1968

First Reading         : 9 May 1968

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                      iii

Second and Third Readings : 22 May 1968

Commencement          : 19 June 1969

8. 1970 Revised Edition — National Library Act (Chapter 311)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

9. 1985 Revised Edition — National Library Act (Chapter 197)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

                                  PART 3
               PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS ACT
           (CHAPTER 246, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

10. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 2 (Printers and Publishers)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

Note: This Revised Edition consolidated Indian Act XI of 1835 and The
        Book Registration Ordinance 1886 (Ordinance XV of 1886).

11. Ordinance 26 of 1921 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                      Ordinance, 1921

     (Amendments made by section 3(a) read with Schedule B to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1854/1921

First Reading         : 22 November 1921

Second Reading        : 22 November 1921

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 1921

Third Reading         : 22 November 1921

Commencement          : 28 November 1921(section 3(a) read
                            with Schedule B)

12. Ordinance 32 of 1922 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Amendment
                                      Ordinance, 1922

     (Amendments made by section 12(1) read with the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1158/1922

First Reading         : 14 August 1922

Second Reading        : 11 September 1922

Notice of Amendments  : 23 October 1922

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                      iv

Third Reading         : 23 October 1922

Commencement          : 28 November 1921 (section 12(1) read
                            with the Schedule)

13. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 2 (Printers and Publishers)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

14. Ordinance 6 of 1926 — The Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1926

     (Amendments made by section 3 read with Schedule B to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1151/1926

First Reading         : 12 July 1926

Second Reading        : 12 July 1926

Notice of Amendments  : 12 July 1926

Third Reading         : 12 July 1926

Commencement          : 1 August 1926 (section 3 read with
                            Schedule B)

15. 1936 Revised Edition — Printers and Publishers Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 209)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

16. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 70 of the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 70 of the Schedule)

17. 1955 Revised Edition — Printers and Publishers Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 196)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                      v

18. Ordinance 71 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 4 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 30/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 4 read
                            with the First Schedule)

19. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

20. Ordinance 70 of 1960 — Printers and Publishers (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1960

Bill                  : 109/1960

First Reading         : 16 November 1960

Second and Third Readings : 29 November 1960

Commencement          : 9 December 1960

21. Act 32 of 1967 — Printers and Publishers (Amendment) Act, 1967

Bill                  : 27/1967

First Reading         : 31 October 1967

Second and Third Readings : 14 November 1967

Commencement          : 1 January 1968

22. 1970 Revised Edition — Printers and Publishers Act (Chapter 224)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
               vi

23. 1985 Revised Edition — Printers and Publishers Act (Chapter 246)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                 PART 4
           NATIONAL LIBRARY BOARD ACT 1995

                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

24. Act 5 of 1995 — National Library Board Act 1995

Bill           : 5/1995

First Reading  : 23 January 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 1995

Commencement   : 1 September 1995

25. 1996 Revised Edition — National Library Board Act (Chapter 197)

Operation      : 30 April 1996

26. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (27) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (27) of the Schedule)

27. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
     (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (34) of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (34) of the Schedule)

28. Act 25 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2012
     (Amendments made by section 8 of the above Act)

Bill           : 23/2012

First Reading  : 10 September 2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                      vii

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2012

Commencement          : 28 March 2013 (section 8)

29. 2014 Revised Edition — National Library Board Act (Chapter 197)

Operation             : 31 October 2014

30. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 84 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 84)

31. Act 30 of 2018 — National Library Board (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill                  : 19/2018

First Reading         : 19 March 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement          : 31 January 2019

32. 2020 Revised Edition — National Library Board Act 1995

Operation             : 31 December 2021

33. Act 25 of 2023 — Oaths, Declarations and Notarisations (Remote
                             Methods) Act 2023

Bill                  : 21/2023

First Reading         : 3 July 2023

Second and Third Readings : 2 August 2023

Commencement          : 1 December 2023 (Section 13)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
           COMPARATIVE TABLE
NATIONAL LIBRARY BOARD ACT 1995

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2014 Ed.
—                          9—(3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                          10—(4) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2018]
—                          13 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
13                         14
14                         14A
15                         14B
16                         14C
17                         14D
18                         14E
19                         14F
20                         14G
21                         14H
22                         14I
23                         14J
24                         14K
25                         14L
26                         15
27                         16
—                          17 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
28                         18
29                         19
30                         20
31                         21
32                         21A

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                 2020 Ed.  ii
33
34                                            2014 Ed.
35                          22
36                          23
37                          24
38                          25
39                          26
40                          27
41                          28
42                          29
43                          30
44                          31
45                          32
46                          33
47                          33A
48                          34
THE SCHEDULE                35
—                           36
                            FIRST SCHEDULE
                            SECOND SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                            Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
