SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW ACT 2024

         (No. 1 of 2024)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Purpose of Act
     1.  General interpretation
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                                ADMINISTRATION

 4. Competent authority
 5. Authorised officers appointed by competent authority and

         delegation by competent authority
 6. Transfer of functions and powers of Minister
 7. Appointed authorities
 8. Authorised officers appointed by appointed authority and

         delegation by appointed authority
 9. Delegation by Minister, etc.
10. Delegation by relevant Minister, etc.
11. Power of delegate, etc.

                                        PART 3

                   CONTROL OF DESIGNATED ENTITIES
                             AND OTHER ENTITIES

                             Division 1 — Preliminary

12. Application of this Part
13. Interpretation of this Part
14. What holding an equity interest means
15. Meaning of “associate”
16. Meanings of “Level A controller”, “Level B controller”,

         “Level C controller”, “Level D controller”, “Level Y controller”
         and “Level Z controller”

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
2        NO. 1 OF 2024

         Division 2 — Designation of and controllers
                       of designated entities

Section  Designation of designated entity
   17.   Notice to Minister by Level A controller
   18.   Approvals of Minister in relation to equity interests and control
   19.   of voting power in certain cases
         Duty of designated entity to report changes of equity and control
   20.   of certain persons
         Void transactions
   21.   Remedial directions in respect of increase in equity interests, etc.
   22.   Remedial directions in respect of decrease in equity interests,
   23.   etc.
         Remedial directions in respect of breach of conditions of
   24.   validation notice
         Effect of remedial directions, etc.
   25.

         Division 3 — Restrictions on winding up, etc.,
                        of designated entities

   26. Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

         Division 4 — Control of officers of designated entities

   27. Approval of chief executive officer, director, etc., of designated
            entity

   28. Removal of chief executive officer, director, etc.

         Division 5 — Special administration order

   29. Meaning and effect of special administration order
   30. Power to make special administration order, etc.
   31. Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order

         Division 6 — National security interests directions

   32. Directions if national security interests affected
   33. Effect of directions issued if Singapore’s national security

            interests affected

         Division 7 — General provisions relating to
             information gathering and penalties

   34. Power of Minister to obtain information relating to this Part
   35. Provision of documents and other information
   36. Penalties under this Part

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
         SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            3

         PART 4

         RECONSIDERATION, APPEALS
             AND JUDICIAL REVIEW

Section  Interpretation of this Part
         Reconsideration by Minister of appealable decision
   37.   Appeal to Reviewing Tribunal
   38.   Reviewing Tribunals — composition
   39.   Reviewing Tribunal — remuneration and other terms
   40.   Reviewing Tribunal — resources
   41.   Reviewing Tribunal — function
   42.   Procedure before Reviewing Tribunal
   43.   Rules for Reviewing Tribunal proceedings
   44.   Limited judicial review
   45.
   46.

                                        PART 5

                                  ENFORCEMENT

47. Purposes for which enforcement powers are exercisable
48. Power to obtain information
49. Powers of entry of premises without warrant
50. Powers of entry of premises under warrant
51. Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010
52. Offences under this Part
53. Composition of offences

                                        PART 6

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

54. Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria
55. Protection from personal liability
56. Exemption
57. Regulations

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
4  NO. 1 OF 2024

An Act to protect the national security interests of Singapore by
  regulating significant investments in, and control of, critical
  entities.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Significant Investments Review Act 2024 and
comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Purpose of Act

 2. The purpose of this Act is to protect the national security interests
of Singapore by regulating significant investments in, and control of,
critical entities.

General interpretation

 3. In this Act —

      “appointed authority” means a public officer, or a body,
         appointed under section 7(1);

      “authorised officer” means an individual appointed under
         section 5(1) or 8(1);

      “competent authority” means the public officer, or the body,
         appointed under section 4(1);

      “designated entity” means an entity that has been designated
         under section 17(1) as a designated entity;

      “entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
         or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate,
         and includes a trust;

      “Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria” means the Guidelines on
         Fit and Proper Criteria mentioned in section 54;

      “Minister” means the Minister charged by the Prime Minister
         with the responsibility for this Act under Article 30(1) of the
         Constitution;

      “public authority” means —

              (a) any Ministry, department of the Government or
                   Organ of State; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
6  NO. 1 OF 2024

           (b) any body established or constituted by or under any
                public Act to perform a public function, but excludes
                a Town Council;

   “relevant Minister” has the meaning assigned to that term in
      section 6(2);

   “Town Council” means a Town Council established under
      section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988.

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Competent authority

 4.—(1) The Minister may appoint a public officer, or a body
established or constituted by or under any public Act to perform a
public function (except a Town Council), to be the competent
authority for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The competent authority is responsible for the administration of
this Act, and may perform such duties as are imposed, and may
exercise such powers as are conferred, on the competent authority by
this Act, subject to any general or special directions of the Minister.

Authorised officers appointed by competent authority and
delegation by competent authority

 5.—(1) The competent authority may, in relation to this Act or any
provision of this Act, appoint any of the following individuals to be
an authorised officer to administer this Act, either generally or for any
particular provision:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an employee of a public authority;

       (c) a public officer performing duties in a public authority
            under a secondment arrangement making available
            temporarily to the public authority the services of the
            public officer.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            7

 (2) Every authorised officer appointed under subsection (1)(b) is
deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

 (3) The competent authority may, for any reason that appears to the
competent authority to be sufficient, at any time revoke any
appointment as an authorised officer made by the competent
authority.

 (4) The competent authority may delegate the exercise of all or any
of the powers conferred, or the performance of all or any of the duties
imposed, on the competent authority by any provision of this Act
(except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to an
authorised officer, and any reference in a provision of this Act to the
competent authority includes a reference to such an authorised
officer.

 (5) A delegation under subsection (4) by the competent authority
may be general or for a particular case and is subject to any conditions
or limitations that are set out in this Act or that the competent
authority may specify.

Transfer of functions and powers of Minister

 6.—(1) This section applies if the Minister has designated an entity
under section 17(1).

 (2) The Prime Minister may direct that all or any of the functions
and powers of the Minister under Part 3 (other than section 17 and
Division 6) and section 38 be transferred to another Minister (called
in this Act the relevant Minister) in respect of the designated entity.

 (3) If any functions and powers of the Minister have been
transferred with the Prime Minister’s direction under
subsection (2) —

       (a) the relevant Minister may, in respect of the designated
            entity, perform the functions and exercise the powers so
            transferred in place of the Minister; and

       (b) any reference to the Minister in the following provisions of
            this Act includes, in respect of that entity, the relevant
            Minister mentioned in that subsection:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
8  NO. 1 OF 2024

               (i) Part 3, other than section 17 and Division 6;

              (ii) Part 4, other than sections 41, 42 and 45.

 (4) A transfer of functions and powers under subsection (2) is
subject to any conditions and restrictions that the Prime Minister may
determine.

 (5) The Prime Minister may —

       (a) revoke any direction given under subsection (2); or

       (b) vary any of the conditions or restrictions mentioned in
            subsection (4).

 (6) The following matters must be notified in the Gazette as soon as
practicable:

       (a) any direction given under subsection (2);

       (b) any condition or restriction determined under
            subsection (4);

       (c) any revocation of a direction under subsection (5)(a);

       (d) any variation of a condition or restriction under
            subsection (5)(b).

 (7) Regulations may be made under section 57 to provide for saving
and transitional provisions when any transfer of functions and powers
under subsection (2) is revoked under subsection (5)(a).

Appointed authorities

 7.—(1) A relevant Minister may appoint a public officer, or a body
established or constituted by or under any public Act to perform a
public function (except a Town Council), to be an appointed authority
for the purposes of all or any of the provisions of this Act for which
the relevant Minister may act.

 (2) An appointed authority is responsible for the administration of
the provisions of this Act for which purpose the appointed authority
was appointed, and may perform such duties as are imposed, and may
exercise such powers as are conferred, on the appointed authority by
this Act, subject to any general or special directions of the relevant
Minister.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            9

 (3) If a relevant Minister does not appoint an appointed authority
under subsection (1), then, the competent authority —

       (a) is responsible for the administration of the provisions of
            this Act in respect of the functions and powers transferred
            to the relevant Minister under section 6(2); and

       (b) may perform such duties as are imposed, and may exercise
            such powers as are conferred, on the appointed authority
            by this Act,

subject to any general or special directions of the relevant Minister.

 (4) If a direction in relation to a relevant Minister is revoked under
section 6(5)(a), the appointment of any appointed authority appointed
by that relevant Minister is also treated as revoked.

Authorised officers appointed by appointed authority and
delegation by appointed authority

 8.—(1) An appointed authority may, in relation to this Act or any
provision of this Act, appoint any of the following individuals to be
an authorised officer to administer this Act, either generally or for any
particular provision, in respect of which the relevant Minister of the
appointed authority may act:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an employee of a public authority;

       (c) a public officer performing duties in a public authority
            under a secondment arrangement making available
            temporarily to the public authority the services of the
            public officer.

 (2) Every authorised officer appointed under subsection (1)(b) is
deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

 (3) An appointed authority may, for any reason that appears to the
appointed authority to be sufficient, at any time revoke any
appointment as an authorised officer made by the appointed authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
10  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (4) If the appointment of an appointed authority is revoked, the
appointment of each authorised officer appointed by that appointed
authority is also treated as revoked.

 (5) An appointed authority may delegate the exercise of all or any
of the powers conferred, or the performance of all or any of the duties
or duties imposed, on the appointed authority by any provision of this
Act (except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to
an authorised officer appointed by the appointed authority under
subsection (1), and any reference in a provision of this Act to the
appointed authority includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

 (6) A delegation under subsection (5) by an appointed authority
may be general or for a particular case and is subject to any conditions
or limitations that are set out in this Act or that the appointed authority
may specify.

Delegation by Minister, etc.

 9.—(1) The Minister may delegate the performance or exercise of
any of his or her functions or powers under this Act (except the power
to make regulations under section 57(1)) to any of the following
persons by written notice to the person:

       (a) any of the following office‑holders in his or her Ministry:

               (i) a Second Minister;

              (ii) a Senior Minister of State;

             (iii) a Minister of State;

             (iv) a Senior Parliamentary Secretary;

              (v) a Parliamentary Secretary;

       (b) the competent authority appointed by the Minister under
            section 4.

 (2) A delegation by the Minister under subsection (1) may be
general or for a particular case and is subject to any conditions or
limitations that are set out in this Act or that the Minister may specify.

 (3) The Minister may, in delegating the performance or exercise of
any of his or her functions or powers to the competent authority under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            11

subsection (1)(b), authorise the competent authority to subdelegate
the performance or exercise of the function or power to an authorised
officer appointed by the competent authority under section 5 (called
in this Act a subdelegate).

 (4) A subdelegation by the competent authority of the performance
or exercise of a function or power delegated to it by the Minister
under subsection (1)(b) to a subdelegate is subject to the same
restrictions, and has the same effect, as if the subdelegate were the
delegate.

Delegation by relevant Minister, etc.

 10.—(1) A relevant Minister may delegate the performance or
exercise of any of his or her functions or powers under this Act
(except the power to make regulations under section 57(2)), either
generally or specially, to any of the following persons by written
notice to the person:

       (a) any of the following office‑holders in his or her Ministry:

               (i) a Second Minister;

              (ii) a Senior Minister of State;

             (iii) a Minister of State;

             (iv) a Senior Parliamentary Secretary;

              (v) a Parliamentary Secretary;

       (b) the appointed authority appointed by the relevant Minister
            under section 7.

 (2) A delegation by the relevant Minister under subsection (1) may
be general or for a particular case and is subject to any conditions or
limitations that are set out in this Act or that the relevant Minister may
specify.

 (3) A relevant Minister may, in delegating the performance or
exercise of any of his or her functions or powers to the appointed
authority under subsection (1)(b), authorise the appointed authority to
subdelegate the performance or exercise of the function or power to
an authorised officer appointed by the appointed authority under
section 8 (also called in this Act a subdelegate).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
12  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (4) A subdelegation by the appointed authority of the performance
or exercise of a function or power delegated to it by the relevant
Minister under subsection (1)(b) to a subdelegate is subject to the
same restrictions, and has the same effect, as if the subdelegate were
the delegate.

Power of delegate, etc.

 11.—(1) A delegate or subdelegate who purports to perform a
function or exercise a power under delegation or subdelegation under
section 9 or 10 —

       (a) is taken to perform the function or exercise the power in
            accordance with the terms of the delegation or
            subdelegation (as the case may be), unless the contrary
            is shown; and

       (b) must produce evidence of his or her authority to perform
            the function or exercise the power, if reasonably requested
            to do so.

 (2) A subdelegate to whom a function or power of the Minister or
the relevant Minister is subdelegated under section 9(3) or 10(3) (as
the case may be) is not authorised to further delegate that function or
power to anyone else.

                                    PART 3
               CONTROL OF DESIGNATED ENTITIES

                         AND OTHER ENTITIES
                         Division 1 — Preliminary
Application of this Part
 12. Except where otherwise expressly provided, this Part applies to,
and in relation to —
       (a) all individuals, whether resident in Singapore or not and
            whether citizens of Singapore or not; and
       (b) all bodies corporate or unincorporate, whether
            incorporated, formed, established, or carrying on
            business in Singapore or not.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            13

Interpretation of this Part

 13.—(1) In this Part —

      “acquisition” includes an agreement to acquire, but does not
         include —

              (a) an acquisition by will or by operation of law; or

              (b) an acquisition by way of enforcement of a loan
                   security;

      “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
         arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
         express or implied;

      “business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
         Business Trusts Act 2004;

      “chief executive officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a
         person, by whatever name called, who —

              (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the corporation; and

              (b) is principally responsible for the management and
                   conduct of the business of the corporation;

      “control” includes control as a result of, or by means of, any
         agreement, arrangement, understanding or practice, whether
         or not having legal or equitable force and whether or not
         based on legal or equitable rights;

      “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “decrease”, in relation to the holding of equity interest, includes
         a decrease to a point of nil;

      “designation date”, in relation to a designated entity, means the
         date on which the entity is designated as a designated entity
         under section 17(1);

      “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
14  NO. 1 OF 2024

    “equity interest” means —

            (a) in relation to a corporation — a voting share in that
                 corporation;

            (b) in relation to an entity other than a corporation — any
                 right or interest, whether legal or equitable, in that
                 entity, by whatever name called, which gives the
                 holder of that right or interest voting power in that
                 entity;

            (c) in relation to a business trust — a unit in that business
                 trust; and

            (d) in relation to a trust other than a business trust — any
                 right or interest (whether legal or equitable) in that
                 trust, by whatever name called, which gives the
                 holder of that right or interest voting power in that
                 trust;

    “increase”, in relation to the holding of equity interest, includes
       an increase from a starting point of nil;

    “indirect controller”, in relation to an entity, means any person,
       whether acting alone or together with any other person, and
       whether with or without holding equity interests or
       controlling the voting power in the entity —

            (a) whose directions, instructions or wishes —

                   (i) the directors or other officers of the entity;

                   (ii) the trustee‑manager (in the case of an entity
                        that is a business trust); or

                  (iii) the trustee (in the case of an entity that is a trust
                        other than a business trust),

            (a) are accustomed or under an obligation, whether
                 formal or informal, to act in accordance with; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            15

        (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
             entity,

   but does not include —

        (c) any person who is —

               (i) a director or other officer of the entity;

               (ii) the trustee‑manager (in the case of an entity
                    that is a business trust); or

              (iii) the trustee (in the case of an entity that is a trust
                    other than a business trust); or

        (d) any person whose directions, instructions or
             wishes —

               (i) the directors or other officers of the entity;

               (ii) the trustee‑manager (in the case of an entity
                    that is a business trust); or

              (iii) the trustee (in the case of an entity that is a trust
                    other than a business trust),

        (d) are accustomed to act in accordance with by reason
             only that they act on advice given by the person in
             that person’s professional capacity;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“liquidator” includes the Official Receiver when acting as the
   liquidator of a corporation;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

        (a) a director or secretary of, or a person employed in an
             executive capacity by, the corporation;

        (b) any receiver or manager, or any receiver and
             manager, of any part of the undertaking of the
             corporation, appointed under a power contained in
             any instrument or by the High Court or by creditors;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
16  NO. 1 OF 2024

              (c) any liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
                   voluntary winding up or by the General Division of
                   the High Court or by creditors; and

              (d) any judicial manager of the corporation appointed by
                   the General Division of the High Court under Part 7
                   of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
                   Act 2018;

      “Official Receiver” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

      “related corporation”, in relation to a corporation, means another
         corporation that is deemed under section 15(2) to be related
         to that corporation;

      “share”, in relation to a corporation, means a share in the share
         capital of the corporation and includes stock into which all or
         any of the share capital of the corporation has been
         converted;

      “treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “trust” includes a business trust;

      “trustee‑manager”, in relation to a business trust, has the
         meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts Act 2004;

      “unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
         Act 2004;

      “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

      “unregistered company” has the meaning given by
         section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018;

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967 but does not include a treasury share.

 (2) A reference in this Part to the control of a percentage of the
voting power in an entity is a reference to the control, whether direct
or indirect, of that percentage of the total number of votes that might
be cast in —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            17

       (a) a general meeting of the entity;

       (b) in the case of an entity that is a business trust — a general
            meeting of the unitholders of the business trust; or

       (c) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a business
            trust — a general meeting of the beneficiaries of the trust.

 (3) In ascertaining a person’s control of the percentage of the total
number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting mentioned in
subsection (2), the number of votes that the person is entitled to cast at
the general meeting by reason of having been appointed a proxy or
representative to vote at the meeting is to be disregarded.

 (4) In this Part —

       (a) a reference to the business or undertaking of an entity that
            is a business trust means the business or undertaking
            carried on by the trustee‑manager of the business trust on
            behalf of the business trust; and

       (b) a reference to the business or undertaking of an entity that
            is a trust (other than business trust) means the business or
            undertaking carried on by the trustee of the trust on behalf
            of the trust.

What holding an equity interest means

 14.—(1) A person holds an equity interest under this Part if the
person —

       (a) has or is deemed to have an equity interest in accordance
            with subsections (2) to (8); or

       (b) otherwise has a legal or equitable interest in that equity
            interest,

except for any interest prescribed by regulations made under
section 57 as an interest that is to be disregarded.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person has an equity interest if the
person has authority (whether formal or informal, or express or
implied) to dispose of, or to exercise control over the disposal of, that
equity interest.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
18  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (3) It is immaterial that the authority of a person to dispose of, or to
exercise control over the disposal of, the equity interest is, or is
capable of being made, subject to restraint or restriction.

 (4) It is immaterial, for the purposes of determining whether a
person has an equity interest, that the interest cannot be related to a
particular share, an interest or a right that gives its holder voting
power, or a unit of a business trust, as the case may be.

 (5) A person is deemed to have an equity interest if —

       (a) any property held in trust consists of or includes the equity
            interest; and

       (b) the person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing,
            that the person has an interest under that trust.

 (6) A person is also deemed to have an equity interest in an entity if
that person —

       (a) has entered into a contract to purchase the equity interest;

       (b) has a right, otherwise than by reason of having an interest
            under a trust, to have the equity interest transferred to (or to
            the order of) that person, whether the right is exercisable
            presently or in the future and whether on the fulfilment of a
            condition or not;

       (c) has the right to acquire the equity interest under an option,
            whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future
            and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or

       (d) is entitled (otherwise than by reason of having been
            appointed as proxy or representative) to vote at —

               (i) a general meeting of the entity;

              (ii) in the case of an entity that is a business trust — a
                   general meeting of the unitholders of the business
                   trust; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            19

             (iii) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a
                   business trust — a general meeting of the
                   beneficiaries of the trust in question,

       (d) to exercise or control the exercise of a right attached to the
            equity interest, not being an equity interest in which that
            person has a legal or equitable interest.

 (7) A person is not to be deemed as not having an equity interest by
reason only that the person has the equity interest jointly with another
person.

 (8) An equity interest is not to be disregarded by reason only of —

       (a) its remoteness;

       (b) the manner in which it arose; or

       (c) the fact that the exercise of a right conferred by the equity
            interest is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint
            or restriction.

 (9) Regulations made under section 57 may provide that any equity
interest is to be disregarded for the purposes of this section or any
subsection of this section.

Meaning of “associate”

 15.—(1) In this Part, a person (A) is an associate of another
person (B) if —

       (a) A is the spouse, or a parent, step‑parent or remoter lineal
            ancestor, or a son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter or
            remoter issue, or a brother or sister, of B;

       (b) A is a partner of B in a partnership or limited liability
            partnership;

       (c) A is a corporation of which B is an officer;

       (d) B is a corporation of which A is an officer;

       (e) A and B are officers of the same corporation;

        (f) A is an employee of B;

       (g) B is an employee of A;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
20  NO. 1 OF 2024

    (h) A and B are employees of the same employer;

     (i) A is the trustee of a discretionary trust if B (or another
         person who is an associate of B by virtue of any paragraph,
         except this paragraph and paragraphs (j) and (r)) benefits,
         or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
         appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
         either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

     (j) B is the trustee of a discretionary trust if A (or another
         person who is an associate of A by virtue of any paragraph,
         except this paragraph and paragraphs (i) and (r)) benefits,
         or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
         appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
         either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

    (k) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
         an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
         accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
         B or, if B is a corporation, of the directors of B;

     (l) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
         an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
         accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
         A or, if A is a corporation, of the directors of A;

    (m) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of B or, if B is a
         corporation, of the directors of B;

    (n) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of A or, if A is a
         corporation, of the directors of A;

    (o) A is a related corporation of B or B is a related corporation
         of A;

    (p) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other
         associates of B as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control not less than 20% of the voting power
         in A;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            21

(q) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with other
     associates of A as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
     position to control not less than 20% of the voting power
     in B;

(r) A is a person with whom B enters, or proposes to enter, into
     an agreement or arrangement (whether oral or in writing
     and whether express or implied) that relates to any of the
     following matters:

       (i) A and B being in a position, by acting together, to
            control any of the voting power in an entity;

      (ii) A and B acting together with respect to the
            acquisition, holding or disposal of equity interests
            or other interests in an entity;

      (iii) the power of A and B, by acting together, to appoint
            or remove —

             (A) a director of an entity;

             (B) in the case of an entity that is a business trust —
                   a director of the trustee‑manager of a business
                   trust; or

             (C) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a
                   business trust and if the trustee of the trust is a
                   corporation — a director of the trustee;

      (iv) the situation where one or more of the directors of —

             (A) an entity;

             (B) in the case of an entity that is a business trust —
                   the trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

             (C) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a
                   business trust and if the trustee of the trust is a
                   corporation — the trustee of the trust,

      (iv) are accustomed or under an obligation (whether
            formal or informal) to act in accordance with the
            directions, instructions or wishes of A and B acting
            together;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
22  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (s) A controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
            company of B;

        (t) B controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
            company of A; or

       (u) A is related to B in such other manner as may be prescribed
            by regulations made under section 57.

 (2) A corporation (A) and another corporation (B) are deemed to be
related to each other for the purposes of this section if A is —

       (a) the holding company of B;

       (b) a subsidiary of B; or

       (c) a subsidiary of the holding company of B.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, a corporation (A) is deemed to
be a subsidiary of another corporation (B) if —

       (a) B controls the composition of the board of directors of A;

       (b) B controls more than half of the voting power of A; or

       (c) A is a subsidiary of any corporation which is B’s subsidiary.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), the composition of A’s
board of directors is deemed to be controlled by B if, by the exercise
of some power exercisable by B without the consent or concurrence
of any other person, B can appoint or remove all or a majority of the
directors, and for the purposes of this provision, B is deemed to have
power to make such an appointment if —

       (a) a person cannot be appointed as a director without the
            exercise in the person’s favour by B of such a power; or

       (b) a person’s appointment as a director follows necessarily
            from that person being a director or other officer of B.

 (5) In determining whether one corporation (A) is the subsidiary of
another corporation (B) —

       (a) any shares held or power exercisable by B in a fiduciary
            capacity is treated as not held or exercisable by B;

       (b) subject to paragraphs (c) and (d), any shares held or power
            exercisable —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            23

               (i) by any person as a nominee for B (except if B is
                   concerned only in a fiduciary capacity); or

              (ii) by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of B, not being a
                   subsidiary which is concerned only in a fiduciary
                   capacity,

       (b) is to be treated as being held or exercisable by B;

       (c) any shares held or exercisable by any person by virtue of
            the provisions of any debentures of A, or of a trust deed for
            securing any issue of such debentures, are to be
            disregarded; and

       (d) any shares held or exercisable by, or by a nominee for, B or
            its subsidiary (not being held or exercisable as mentioned
            in paragraph (c)) is to be treated as not held or exercisable
            by B if the ordinary business of B or its subsidiary (as the
            case may be) includes the lending of money and the shares
            are so held or power is so exercisable by way of security
            only for the purposes of a transaction entered into in the
            ordinary course of that business.

 (6) A reference in this section to the holding company of a company
or other corporation is a reference to a corporation of which the last
mentioned company or corporation is a subsidiary.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the Depository is not to be
regarded as a holding company of a corporation by reason only of the
shares it holds in that corporation as a bare trustee.

 (8) Regulations made under section 57 may provide that any person
or class of persons are not associates of another person for the
purposes of any provision of this Part.

 (9) In this section —

      “Depository” has the meaning given by section 81SF of the
         Securities and Futures Act 2001;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a director or
         secretary of, or any person employed in an executive capacity
         by, the corporation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
24  NO. 1 OF 2024

Meanings of “Level A controller”, “Level B controller”,
“Level C controller”, “Level D controller”, “Level Y
controller” and “Level Z controller”

 16.—(1) In this Part —

      “Level A controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

              (a) holds Level A% or more, but less than Level B% (if
                   Level A% is less than Level B%), of the total equity
                   interests in the designated entity; or

              (b) is in a position to control Level A% or more, but less
                   than Level B% (if Level A% is less than Level B%),
                   of the voting power in the designated entity;

      “Level B controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

              (a) holds Level B% or more, but less than Level C% (if
                   Level B% is less than Level C%), of the total equity
                   interests in the designated entity; or

              (b) is in a position to control Level B% or more, but less
                   than Level C% (if Level B% is less than Level C%),
                   of the voting power in the designated entity;

      “Level C controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

              (a) holds Level C% or more, but less than Level D% (if
                   Level C% is less than Level D%), of the total equity
                   interests in the designated entity; or

              (b) is in a position to control Level C% or more, but less
                   than Level D% (if Level C% is less than Level D%),
                   of the voting power in, the designated entity;

      “Level D controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

              (a) holds Level D% or more of the total equity interests
                   in the designated entity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            25

            (b) is in a position to control Level D% or more of the
                 voting power in the designated entity;

    “Level Y controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
        person who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

            (a) holds Level Y% or more, but less than Level Z% (if
                 Level Y% is less than Level Z%), of the total equity
                 interests in the designated entity; or

            (b) is in a position to control Level Y% or more, but less
                 than Level Z% (if Level Y% is less than Level Z%),
                 of the voting power in the designated entity;

    “Level Z controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
        person who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

            (a) holds Level Z% or more of the total equity interests in
                 the designated entity; or

            (b) is in a position to control Level Z% or more of the
                 voting power in the designated entity.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) and section 18(2) —

    “Level A%” means —

            (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, 5%; or

            (b) such other percentage (less than or equal to Level B
                 %) as may be prescribed from time to time;

    “Level B%” means —

            (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, 12%; or

            (b) such other percentage (less than or equal to Level C
                 %) as may be prescribed from time to time;

    “Level C%” means —

            (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, 25%; or

            (b) such other percentage (less than or equal to Level D
                 %) as may be prescribed from time to time;

    “Level D%” means —

            (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, 50%; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
26  NO. 1 OF 2024

              (b) such other percentage as may be prescribed from time
                   to time;

      “Level Y%” means —

              (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, 50%; or

              (b) such other percentage (less than or equal to Level Z
                   %) as may be prescribed from time to time;

      “Level Z%” means —

              (a) unless paragraph (b) applies, 75%; or

              (b) such other percentage as may be prescribed from time
                   to time.

 (3) The Minister may, for the purpose of paragraph (b) of the
definitions of “Level A%”, “Level B%”, “Level C%”, “Level D%”,
“Level Y%” and “Level Z%” mentioned in subsection (2),
prescribe —

       (a) different percentages in respect of —

               (i) different designated entities;

              (ii) different classes of designated entities; or

             (iii) different designated entities within a class of
                   designated entities; and

       (b) the same percentage for all or any of the definitions.

              Division 2 — Designation of and controllers
                            of designated entities

Designation of designated entity

 17.—(1) The Minister may designate —

       (a) any entity incorporated, formed or established in
            Singapore;

       (b) any entity that carries out any activity in Singapore; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            27

       (c) any entity that provides any goods and services to any
            person in Singapore,

if the Minister considers that the designation is necessary in the
interest of Singapore’s national security.

 (2) Before the Minister designates any entity under subsection (1),
the Minister must, unless the Minister considers that it is not
practicable or desirable to do so in any particular case —

       (a) give notice of the Minister’s intention to designate the
            entity to the entity concerned; and

       (b) give the entity at least 14 days after the date of the notice to
            make written representations on the proposed designation.

 (3) Once a designation is made under subsection (1), the Minister
must, as far as practicable and without delay, give notice of the
designation —

       (a) to the entity that is designated; and

       (b) to any other person who, in the Minister’s opinion, ought to
            have notice of the designation.

 (4) The Minister may cancel a designation under subsection (1) at
any time.

 (5) Any designation under subsection (1), and any cancellation of a
designation under subsection (4), must be notified in the Gazette as
soon as practicable.

Notice to Minister by Level A controller

 18.—(1) If a person becomes, on or after the designation date, a
Level A controller of a designated entity, that person must, within
7 days after becoming the Level A controller, give notice in writing to
the Minister of that fact.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if Level A% is equal to Level B%,
Level C% or Level D%.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
28  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (1), it is a defence for the accused to prove that the
accused —

       (a) was not aware of the contravention when it occurred; and

       (b) notified the Minister of the contravention within a period
            of 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (1), it is also a defence for the accused to prove that,
though the accused was aware of the contravention —

       (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
            holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
            controlled, by any of the associates of the accused, in the
            designated entity;

       (b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
            oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
            associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
            disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
            which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
            relation to the designated entity; and

       (c) the accused notified the Minister of the contravention
            within a period of 7 days after the contravention.

 (6) Except as provided in subsections (4) and (5), it is not a defence
in any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention of
subsection (1) to prove that the accused did not intend to or did not
knowingly contravene subsection (1).

Approvals of Minister in relation to equity interests and
control of voting power in certain cases

 19.—(1) Except with the prior written approval of the Minister, on
or after the designation date —

       (a) a person must not become a Level B controller, Level C
            controller or Level D controller of a designated entity; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            29

       (b) a Level Y controller or Level Z controller of a designated
            entity must not cease to be a Level Y controller or Level Z
            controller of the designated entity.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the transaction through which a
person becomes a Level B controller, Level C controller or Level D
controller, or ceases to be a Level Y controller or Level Z controller,
is entered into before the designation date.

 (3) Except with the prior written approval of the Minister, a person
must not, on or after the designation date, become an indirect
controller of a designated entity.

 (4) A person must not, on or after the designation date, acquire, as a
going concern, the business or undertaking or any part of the business
or undertaking of a designated entity unless the person and —

       (a) the designated entity;

       (b) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust —
            the trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

       (c) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust other than a
            business trust — the trustee of the trust,

have obtained the prior written approval of the Minister.

 (5) On an application for approval under subsection (1)(a) or (3),
the Minister may approve the application if the Minister is
satisfied that —

       (a) the person who is to become a Level B controller, Level C
            controller or Level D controller or an indirect controller of
            a designated entity, and every associate of that person that
            the Minister knows is an associate, is a fit and proper
            person under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria;

       (b) having regard to the influence of —

               (i) the person mentioned in paragraph (a); and

              (ii) every associate of that person,

       (b) the designated entity will continue to carry on its business
            or undertaking; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
30  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (c) it is not against the national security interests of Singapore
            to do so.

 (6) On an application for approval under subsection (1)(b), the
Minister may approve the application if the Minister is satisfied
that —

       (a) the designated entity of which the applicant is a Level Y
            controller or Level Z controller will continue to carry on its
            business or undertaking despite the applicant ceasing to be
            a Level Y controller or Level Z controller of the designated
            entity; and

       (b) it is not against the national security interests of Singapore
            to do so.

 (7) On an application for approval under subsection (4), the
Minister may approve the application if the Minister is satisfied
that —

       (a) the person acquiring the business or undertaking, or part of
            the business or undertaking, is a fit and proper person
            under the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria;

       (b) the acquisition will not affect the security and reliability of
            the business or undertaking of the designated entity in
            Singapore; and

       (c) it is not against the national security interests of Singapore
            to do so.

 (8) An approval of the Minister under this section may be granted
subject to any conditions that the Minister considers appropriate to
impose.

 (9) Any condition imposed by the Minister under subsection (8) has
effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, trust deed, or
other constitution, of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1), (3) or (4) is made.

 (10) A person who contravenes —

       (a) subsection (1), (3) or (4); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            31

       (b) any condition imposed under subsection (8),

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (11) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (1), it is a defence for the accused to prove that —

       (a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
            occurred;

       (b) the accused notified the Minister of the contravention
            within a period of 14 days after becoming aware of the
            contravention; and

       (c) if the Minister issued any direction under section 22, 23 or
            24 relating to the contravention —

               (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
                   period determined by the Minister under any of those
                   sections; or

              (ii) the period determined by the Minister under any of
                   those sections for the compliance of the direction has
                   not expired.

 (12) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (1), it is also a defence for the accused to prove that
even though the accused was aware of the contravention —

       (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase or
            decrease in the holding of equity interest, or in the voting
            power controlled, by any of the associates of the accused,
            in the designated entity;

       (b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
            oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
            associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
            disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
            which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
            relation to the designated entity;

       (c) the accused took all reasonable steps to notify the Minister
            of the contravention within a period of 7 days after the
            contravention; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
32  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (d) if the Minister issued any direction under section 22, 23 or
            24 relating to the contravention —

               (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
                   period determined by the Minister under any of those
                   sections; or

              (ii) the period determined by the Minister under any of
                   those sections for the compliance of the direction has
                   not expired.

 (13) In any proceedings for an offence in relation to a contravention
of subsection (3), it is a defence for the accused to prove that —

       (a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
            occurred;

       (b) the accused notified the Minister of the contravention
            within a period of 14 days after the contravention; and

       (c) if the Minister issued any direction under section 22, 23 or
            24 relating to the contravention —

               (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
                   period determined by the Minister under any of those
                   sections; or

              (ii) the period determined by the Minister under any of
                   those sections for the compliance of the direction has
                   not expired.

 (14) Except as provided in subsections (11), (12) and (13), it is not a
defence in any proceedings for an offence in relation to a
contravention of subsection (1) or (3) to prove that the accused did
not intend to or did not knowingly contravene subsection (1) or (3), as
the case may be.

Duty of designated entity to report changes of equity and
control of certain persons

 20.—(1) A designated entity that becomes aware that —

       (a) a person has, on or after the designation date, become a
            Level A controller, Level B controller, Level C controller
            or Level D controller of the designated entity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            33

       (b) a Level Y controller or Level Z controller of the designated
            entity has, on or after the designation date, ceased to be a
            Level Y controller or Level Z controller (as the case may
            be) of the designated entity;

       (c) a person has, on or after the designation date, become an
            indirect controller of the designated entity; or

       (d) a person has, on or after the designation date, acquired, as a
            going concern, the business or undertaking or any part of
            the business or undertaking of the designated entity,

must inform the Minister in writing within 7 days after becoming
aware of that fact.

 (2) A designated entity that contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence.

Void transactions

 21.—(1) A transaction that is completed in contravention of
section 19(1), (3) or (4) is void.

 (2) Any person materially affected by the fact that a transaction is
void under subsection (1) or (12) may apply to the Minister for a
validation notice in relation to the transaction.

 (3) The Minister may issue a validation notice —

       (a) on an application under subsection (2); or

       (b) on the Minister’s own initiative, if the Minister is satisfied
            that it is in the interest of Singapore’s national security to
            validate the transaction.

 (4) The Minister may issue a validation notice under
subsection (3)(a) in relation to a transaction that is completed in
contravention of section 19(1)(a), (3) or (4) if the Minister is
satisfied that —

       (a) the person who is to become a Level B controller, Level C
            controller, Level D controller or indirect controller of the
            designated entity and every person that the Minister knows
            is an associate of that person, or who is acquiring the
            business or undertaking, or part of the business or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
34  NO. 1 OF 2024

            undertaking, is a fit and proper person under the Guidelines
            on Fit and Proper Criteria;

       (b) having regard to the influence of —

               (i) the person mentioned in paragraph (a); and

              (ii) every person that the Minister knows is an associate
                   of that person,

       (b) the designated entity will continue to carry on its business
            or undertaking; and

       (c) it is not against the national security interests of Singapore
            to do so.

 (5) The Minister may issue a validation notice under
subsection (3)(a) in relation to a transaction that is completed in
contravention of section 19(1)(b) if the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) the designated entity of which the Level Y controller or
            Level Z controller has (but for subsection (1)) ceased to be
            a Level Y controller or Level Z controller will continue to
            carry on its business or undertaking despite the cessation;
            and

       (b) it is not against the national security interests of Singapore
            to do so.

 (6) The Minister may issue a validation notice under
subsection (3)(a) in relation to a transaction that is void under
subsection (12) if the Minister is satisfied that it is not against the
national security interests of Singapore to do so.

 (7) The effect of a validation notice issued under subsection (3) is
that the transaction to which it relates is not void.

 (8) A validation notice may be issued under subsection (3) subject
to any conditions that the Minister considers appropriate to specify in
the validation notice.

 (9) Without limiting the conditions that may be imposed under
subsection (8), the Minister may, when specifying any condition
under that subsection, further specify that the consequence of a
breach of that condition (called in this section a relevant condition) is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            35

that the transaction in respect of which the validation notice was
issued is void.

 (10) A validation notice issued under subsection (3) must be —

       (a) notified to each person who applied for the validation
            notice, if any; and

       (b) published in the Gazette.

 (11) A person who had applied for a validation notice under
subsection (2) and who fails to comply with any condition specified
in the validation notice under subsection (8) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (12) If a person who applies for a validation notice breaches a
relevant condition specified in the validation notice, the transaction in
respect of which the validation notice is issued is void.

Remedial directions in respect of increase in equity interests,
etc.

 22.—(1) This section applies if the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) any condition of approval of an application under
            section 19 imposed on a person (other than a condition
            imposed for an approval of an application under
            section 19(1)(b)) has not been complied with;

       (b) a person has provided false or misleading information or
            documents in connection with an application for approval
            under section 19(1)(a), (3) or (4);

       (c) in the case of a person who had obtained the Minister’s
            approval under section 19(5) or (7) —

               (i) the person or any associate of that person has ceased
                   to be a fit and proper person under the Guidelines on
                   Fit and Proper Criteria;

              (ii) that having regard to the influence of the person or of
                   any associate of the person, the designated entity is
                   no longer likely to continue to carry on its business or
                   undertaking; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
36  NO. 1 OF 2024

             (iii) it is against the national security interests of
                   Singapore to allow the person to continue to be a
                   Level B controller, Level C controller, Level D
                   controller or indirect controller of the designated
                   entity, or to allow the person to continue to own or
                   manage the business or undertaking, or the part of the
                   business or undertaking, of the designated entity that
                   was acquired, as the case may be; or

       (d) the Minister would not have granted an approval to a
            person under section 19(5) or (7) had the Minister been
            aware, at the time of approval, of circumstances relevant to
            the person’s application for such approval.

 (2) If this section applies, the Minister may do any one or more of
the following:

       (a) in the case of a Level B controller, Level C controller or
            Level D controller of a designated entity —

               (i) direct the person to take any steps that are necessary,
                   within the period specified by the Minister, to cease
                   to be a Level B controller, Level C controller or
                   Level D controller (as the case may be) of the
                   designated entity;

              (ii) direct the transfer or disposal (whether generally or
                   to a specified person) of all or any of the equity
                   interests in the designated entity held by the person
                   or any of the person’s associates (called in this
                   section and section 25 the section 22(2) equity
                   interests), within the period, and subject to any
                   conditions, that the Minister considers appropriate;
                   or

             (iii) direct that the transfer or disposal of all or any of the
                   section 22(2) equity interests be restricted, subject to
                   any conditions that the Minister considers
                   appropriate;

       (b) in the case of an indirect controller of a designated entity,
            direct the person, or direct —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            37

               (i) the designated entity;

              (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
                   trust — the trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

             (iii) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust other
                   than a business trust — the trustee of the trust,

       (b) to take any steps that are necessary, within the period
            specified by the Minister, to cease to be such an indirect
            controller or to cause the person to cease to be such an
            indirect controller, as the case may be;

       (c) in the case of a person who acquired, as a going concern, a
            business or undertaking or a part of a business or
            undertaking mentioned in section 19(4), direct the person
            to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the business or
            undertaking within the period, and subject to any
            conditions, that the Minister considers appropriate;

       (d) make any other direction that the Minister considers
            appropriate.

 (3) Before issuing any direction to a person under subsection (2),
the Minister must —

       (a) unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or
            desirable to do so, give the person written notice of the
            Minister’s intention to issue the direction and specify a
            date by which the person may make written representations
            with regard to the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the date specified under
            paragraph (a).

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge any
direction under subsection (2) or suspend the operation of any such
direction.

 (5) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (2) (including a direction that is varied under
subsection (4)) within the period specified by the Minister, shall be
guilty of an offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
38  NO. 1 OF 2024

Remedial directions in respect of decrease in equity interests,
etc.

 23.—(1) This section applies if the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) any condition of approval imposed on a person (called in
            this section a defaulter) for an approval of an application
            under section 19(1)(b)) has not been complied with;

       (b) a person (also called in this section a defaulter) has
            provided false or misleading information or documents in
            connection with an application for approval under
            section 19(1)(b);

       (c) in the case of a person (also called in this section a
            defaulter) who had obtained the Minister’s approval under
            section 19(6), the designated entity is no longer likely to
            continue to carry on its business or undertaking because the
            defaulter ceased to be a Level Y controller or Level Z
            controller of the designated entity, as the case may be; or

       (d) the Minister would not have granted an approval to the
            defaulter under section 19(6) had the Minister been aware,
            at the time of approval, of circumstances relevant to the
            person’s application for such approval.

 (2) If, as a result of a person (called in this subsection the transferee)
acquiring any equity interests from a defaulter who is a Level Y
controller or Level Z controller of a designated entity (called in this
section and section 25 the section 23(2) equity interests), the defaulter
ceases to be a Level Y controller or a Level Z controller (as the case
may be), the Minister may do any one or more of the following:

       (a) direct the transferee to take any steps that are necessary,
            within the period specified by the Minister, to cease to hold
            all or any of the section 23(2) equity interests;

       (b) direct the defaulter to take any steps that are necessary,
            within the period specified by the Minister, to resume
            being a Level Y controller or Level Z controller, as the case
            may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            39

       (c) direct that the steps mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) are
            taken within the period specified by the Minister, and
            subject to any conditions, that the Minister considers
            appropriate;

       (d) direct that the transfer or disposal of all or any of the
            section 23(2) equity interests be restricted, subject to any
            conditions that the Minister considers appropriate;

       (e) make any other direction that the Minister considers
            appropriate.

 (3) Before issuing any direction to a person under subsection (2),
the Minister must —

       (a) unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or
            desirable to do so, give the person written notice of the
            Minister’s intention to issue the direction and specify a
            date by which the person may make written representations
            with regard to the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the date specified under
            paragraph (a).

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge any
direction under subsection (2), or suspend the operation of any such
direction.

 (5) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (2) (including a direction that is varied under
subsection (4)) within the period specified by the Minister, shall be
guilty of an offence.

Remedial directions in respect of breach of conditions of
validation notice

 24.—(1) This section applies if the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) any condition specified in a validation notice under
            section 21(8) has not been complied with, where the
            validation notice does not specify that the consequence of
            breach of the condition is that the transaction in respect of
            which the validation notice was issued is void;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
40  NO. 1 OF 2024

    (b) a person has provided false or misleading information or
         documents in connection with an application for a
         validation notice under section 21(2);

    (c) in the case of a person who had applied for a validation
         notice under section 21(2) and the Minister had issued a
         validation notice under section 21(4) in relation to a
         transaction that is completed in contravention of
         section 19(1)(a), (3) or (4) —

           (i) the person or any associate of the person has ceased
                to be a fit and proper person under the Guidelines on
                Fit and Proper Criteria;

          (ii) that having regard to the influence of the person or of
                any associate of the person, the designated entity is
                no longer likely to continue to carry on its business or
                undertaking; or

          (iii) it is against the national security interests of
                Singapore to allow the person to continue to be a
                Level B controller, Level C controller, Level D
                controller or indirect controller of the designated
                entity, or to allow the person to continue to own or
                manage the business or undertaking, or the part of the
                business or undertaking, of the designated entity that
                was acquired, as the case may be;

    (d) in the case of a person who had applied for a validation
         notice under section 21(2) and the Minister had issued a
         validation notice under section 21(5) in relation to a
         transaction that is completed in contravention of
         section 19(1)(b), the designated entity is no longer likely
         to continue to carry on its business or undertaking because
         the person ceased to be a Level Y controller or Level Z
         controller of the designated entity, as the case may be; or

    (e) the Minister would not have issued a validation notice to a
         person under section 21(4) or (5) had the Minister been
         aware, at the time of issuance, of circumstances relevant to
         the person’s application for the validation notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            41

 (2) If this section applies, the Minister may do any one or more of
the following:

       (a) if the person to whom the validation notice was issued is a
            Level B controller, Level C controller or Level D controller
            of a designated entity —

               (i) direct the person to take any steps that are necessary,
                   within the period specified by the Minister, to cease
                   to be a Level B controller, Level C controller or
                   Level D controller (as the case may be) of the
                   designated entity;

              (ii) direct the transfer or disposal (whether generally or
                   to a specified person) of all or any of the equity
                   interests in the designated entity held by the person
                   or any of the person’s associates (called in this
                   section and section 25 the section 24(2) equity
                   interests), within the time, and subject to any
                   conditions, that the Minister considers appropriate;
                   or

             (iii) direct that the transfer or disposal of all or any of the
                   section 24(2) equity interests be restricted, subject to
                   any conditions that the Minister considers
                   appropriate;

       (b) if the person to whom the validation notice was issued is an
            indirect controller of a designated entity, direct the person,
            or direct —

               (i) the designated entity;

              (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
                   trust — the trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

             (iii) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust other
                   than a business trust — the trustee of the trust,

       (b) to take any steps that are necessary, within the period
            specified by the Minister, to cease to be such an indirect
            controller or to cause the person to cease to be such an
            indirect controller, as the case may be;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
42  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (c) if the person to whom the validation notice was issued is a
            person who acquired, as a going concern, a business or
            undertaking or any part of a business or undertaking of a
            designated entity, direct the person to transfer or dispose of
            all or any part of the business or undertaking within the
            time, and subject to any conditions, that the Minister
            considers appropriate;

       (d) if the person to whom the validation notice was issued is a
            person who ceased to be a Level Y controller or Level Z
            controller of a designated entity, direct the person to take
            any steps that are necessary, within the period specified by
            the Minister, to resume being a Level Y controller or
            Level Z controller, as the case may be;

       (e) make any other direction that the Minister considers
            appropriate.

 (3) Before issuing any direction to a person under subsection (2),
the Minister must —

       (a) unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or
            desirable to do so, give the person written notice of the
            Minister’s intention to issue the direction and specify a
            date by which the person may make written representations
            with regard to the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the date specified under
            paragraph (a).

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge any
direction under subsection (2), or suspend the operation of any such
direction.

 (5) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (2) (including a direction that is varied under
subsection (4)) within the period specified by the Minister, shall be
guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            43

Effect of remedial directions, etc.

 25.—(1) If any direction is issued under section 22(2), 23(2) or
24(2) and has not been carried out, revoked, discharged or
suspended —

       (a) the voting rights in respect of the section 22(2) equity
            interests, section 23(2) equity interests or section 24(2)
            equity interests that are subject to the direction are not
            exercisable, unless the Minister expressly permits those
            rights to be exercised;

       (b) the voting power that the person to whom the direction is
            issued controls, whether alone or together with that
            person’s associates, in the designated entity is not
            exercisable, unless the Minister expressly permits that
            power to be exercised;

       (c) no equity interest in the designated entity is to be issued or
            offered (whether by way of dividends, rights, bonus or
            otherwise) in respect of the section 22(2) equity interests,
            section 23(2) equity interests or section 24(2) equity
            interests that are subject to the direction, unless the
            Minister expressly permits that issue or offer; and

       (d) no amount may be paid (whether by way of dividends,
            profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the section 22(2)
            equity interests, section 23(2) equity interests or
            section 24(2) equity interests that are subject to the
            direction, unless the Minister expressly authorises that
            payment.

 (2) Subsection (1) and any direction issued under section 22(2),
23(2) or 24(2) have effect, despite —

       (a) the provisions of any other written law;

       (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

       (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
            association, trust deed or other constitution of the
            designated entity in question.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
44  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (3) Any issue or offer of equity interests in contravention of
subsection (1)(c) is void.

 (4) Any payment made in contravention of subsection (1)(d) is
void.

 (5) Subsection (1)(d) does not apply in the event of the winding up,
dissolution or termination of the designated entity, as the case may be.

             Division 3 — Restrictions on winding up, etc.,
                            of designated entities

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

 26.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) a designated entity that is a corporation or limited liability
            partnership cannot be wound up voluntarily without the
            consent of the Minister;

       (b) a designated entity that is a partnership cannot be
            dissolved —

               (i) by a partner giving notice to the other partner or
                   partners (as the case may be) of the partner’s
                   intention to dissolve the partnership; or

              (ii) by the partners agreeing to dissolve the partnership,

       (b) without the consent of the Minister;

       (c) a designated entity that is a business trust cannot be wound
            up voluntarily without the consent of the Minister;

       (d) a designated entity that is a trust (other than a business
            trust) cannot be wound up or terminated voluntarily
            without the consent of the Minister;

       (e) a person must not make any application under section 210
            of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
            designated entity that is a corporation, unless that person
            has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that person’s
            intention to make that application on the Minister;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            45

      (f) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
           Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
           be made in relation to a designated entity that is a
           corporation without the consent of the Minister;

      (g) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
           appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
           Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of a
           designated entity that is a corporation without the consent
           of the Minister;

      (h) a person must not take any step to enforce any security
           over —

             (i) the property of a designated entity; or

            (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust
                  (including a business trust) — the trust property of
                  the trust,

      (h) unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of
           that person’s intention to take that step on the Minister; and

      (i) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
           judgment or order of court obtained against a designated
           entity unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in
           writing of that person’s intention to take that step on the
           Minister.

(2) The Minister must be a party to —

      (a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
           section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
           Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
           relation to a designated entity that is a corporation;

      (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
           management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
           Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
           designated entity that is a corporation;

      (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
           Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
46  NO. 1 OF 2024

            affairs of a designated entity that is a company or an
            unregistered company;

       (d) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
            Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of a
            designated entity that is a limited liability partnership; and

       (e) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
            winding up or termination (as the case may be) of any
            designated entity that is an entity not mentioned in
            paragraph (c) or (d).

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the Minister in those proceedings.

        Division 4 — Control of officers of designated entities

Approval of chief executive officer, director, etc., of designated
entity

 27.—(1) Subject to subsections (5) and (6) —

       (a) an individual may not be appointed as a chief executive
            officer, director, or chairperson of the board of directors of
            a designated entity that is a corporation;

       (b) an individual may not be appointed as a manager, or
            become a partner, of a designated entity that is a limited
            liability partnership; and

       (c) an individual may not become a partner of a designated
            entity that is a partnership,

without the Minister’s approval upon an application made by the
designated entity concerned.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made in the form
and manner prescribed.

 (3) Without affecting any other matter that the Minister may
consider relevant, the Minister may, in determining whether to grant
his or her approval under subsection (4), have regard to any criteria

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            47

that the Minister may specify by written notice to the designated
entity.

 (4) The Minister may —

       (a) approve the application under subsection (1), with or
            without conditions; or

       (b) refuse the application.

 (5) If a designated entity that is a corporation has obtained the
Minister’s approval under subsection (4)(a) to appoint an individual
as the designated entity’s chief executive officer, director, or
chairperson of the board of directors, the individual may, without
the Minister’s approval, be re‑appointed as chief executive officer,
director, or chairperson of the board of directors (as the case may be)
of the designated entity immediately upon the expiry of the
individual’s term of appointment.

 (6) If a designated entity that is a limited liability partnership has
obtained the Minister’s approval under subsection (4)(a) to appoint
an individual as the designated entity’s manager, the individual may,
without the Minister’s approval, be re‑appointed as manager of the
designated entity immediately upon the expiry of the individual’s
term of appointment.

 (7) A designated entity that, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

Removal of chief executive officer, director, etc.

 28.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) an individual has been appointed by a designated entity as
            a chief executive officer, director, chairperson of the board
            of directors or manager, or becomes a partner of a
            designated entity, without the approval of the Minister
            under section 27(4)(a);

       (b) any condition of approval of an application under
            section 27(1) has been breached; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
48  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (c) the Minister considers it necessary in the interest of
            Singapore’s national security that any individual appointed
            as chief executive officer, director, chairperson of the
            board of directors or manager, or that becomes a partner of
            a designated entity, should not act as such chief executive
            officer, director, chairperson, manager or partner (as the
            case may be) of the designated entity.

 (2) If this section applies, the Minister may (despite the provisions
of any other written law) by written notice direct the designated entity
to remove the individual within the period specified by the Minister in
the notice —

       (a) from employment with the designated entity;

       (b) as chief executive officer, director, or chairperson of the
            board of directors, of the designated entity; or

       (c) as manager or partner of the designated entity.

 (3) Before directing a designated entity to remove an individual
under subsection (2), the Minister must give both the designated
entity and the individual an opportunity to be heard.

 (4) The Minister may at any time, by written notice to a designated
entity, require the designated entity to notify the Minister of any
change to any particulars (such as but not limited to residence in
Singapore or elsewhere, or nature of appointment) of its chief
executive officer, director, chairperson of the board of directors,
manager or partner specified in the notice.

 (5) A designated entity that, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with a written notice under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (6) A designated entity that, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes any requirement imposed under subsection (4), shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $10,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
            to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            49

            fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (7) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a designated entity,
or any person acting on behalf of the designated entity, in respect of
anything done (including any notification made) or omitted to be
done with reasonable care and in good faith in the discharge or
purported discharge of the obligations of the designated entity under
this section.

               Division 5 — Special administration order

Meaning and effect of special administration order

 29.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister,
made in accordance with section 30, in relation to a designated entity
directing that during the period the order is in force, the affairs,
business and property of that designated entity are to be managed by a
person appointed by the Minister (which may be the competent
authority or an appointed authority) —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes specified in
            subsection (2); and

       (b) in a manner that protects the interests of the shareholders,
            unitholders or beneficiaries (as the case may be), and the
            creditors, of the designated entity.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the purposes are —

       (a) the security and reliability of the business, undertaking or
            activities of the designated entity in Singapore;

       (b) the survival of the designated entity of the whole or any
            part of its business or undertaking, as a going concern;

       (c) the transfer to another person, or (as respects different parts
            of its business or undertaking) to 2 or more different
            persons, as a going concern, of so much of the business or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
50  NO. 1 OF 2024

            undertaking of the designated entity as is necessary to
            ensure that the obligations of the designated entity in
            carrying out its business, undertaking or activities may be
            properly carried out; and

       (d) the carrying out of the obligations of the designated entity
            under or in respect of the business, undertaking or
            activities of the designated entity pending the making of
            the transfer, as a going concern, of the business or
            undertaking of the designated entity to any other person
            or persons.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations under section 57 for giving
effect to this Division, including —

       (a) regulations governing the transfer of a business or
            undertaking of a designated entity mentioned in
            subsection (2)(c); and

       (b) if a special administration order is made, regulations for
            applying, omitting or modifying the provisions of Part 7 of
            the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

Power to make special administration order, etc.

 30.—(1) If the Minister is satisfied that any one or more of the
grounds specified in subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to that
designated entity, the Minister may make any one or more of the
following orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to that designated
            entity;

       (b) an order requiring —

               (i) the designated entity;

              (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
                   trust — the trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            51

             (iii) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust other
                   than a business trust — the trustee of the trust,

       (b) to immediately take any action or to do or not do any act or
            thing in relation to the business or undertaking of the
            designated entity that the Minister considers necessary;

       (c) an order appointing a person to advise —

               (i) the designated entity;

              (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
                   trust — the trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

             (iii) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust other
                   than a business trust — the trustee of the trust,

       (c) in the proper conduct of the business or undertaking of the
            designated entity.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the grounds specified are the
following:

       (a) the Minister considers it to be in the interest of the security
            and reliability of the carrying on of the business,
            undertaking or activities of the designated entity;

       (b) the Minister considers it to be in the interest of Singapore’s
            national security.

 (3) The Minister may make a special administration order in
relation to a designated entity despite the commencement of (as
applicable) —

       (a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
            section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to the designated entity, being a corporation;

       (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
            management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to the
            designated entity, being a corporation;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
52  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            respect of the designated entity, being a corporation;

       (d) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
            affairs of the designated entity, being a company or an
            unregistered company;

       (e) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
            Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of the
            designated entity, being a limited liability partnership; or

        (f) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
            winding up or termination (as the case may be) of the
            designated entity, being an entity not mentioned in
            paragraph (d) or (e).

 (4) Notice of any order under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Minister to any persons, and in any manner,
determined by the Minister.

 (5) The Minister may at any time (whether or not the appointment
of the person has terminated) fix the remuneration and expenses of a
person appointed by an order under subsection (1)(c) to be paid by —

       (a) the designated entity;

       (b) if the designated entity is a business trust — the
            trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

       (c) if the designated entity is a trust other than a business
            trust — the trustee of the trust.

 (6) If —

       (a) the Minister issues an order under subsection (1) to —

               (i) a designated entity;

              (ii) the trustee‑manager of the business trust (in the case
                   of a designated entity that is a business trust); or

             (iii) the trustee of the trust (in the case of a designated
                   entity that is a trust other than a business trust); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            53

       (b) the designated entity, the trustee‑manager of the business
            trust, or the trustee of the trust (as the case may be) fails to
            comply with that order,

the designated entity, the trustee‑manager of the business trust, or the
trustee of the trust (as the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence.

Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order

 31.—(1) Without limiting sections 29 and 30, a special
administration order may provide for the following matters:

       (a) the transfer to one or more prescribed transferees of —

               (i) the property, rights and liabilities of a designated
                   entity;

              (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
                   trust — the property of the business trust, and the
                   rights held and the liabilities incurred by the
                   trustee‑manager of the business trust in its capacity
                   as trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

             (iii) in the case of a designated entity that is a trust other
                   than a business trust — the property of the trust, and
                   the rights held and the liabilities incurred by the
                   trustee of the trust in his or her capacity as trustee of
                   the trust,

       (a) to one or more prescribed transferees;

       (b) matters that are consequential or related to any such
            transfer.

 (2) If the Minister makes a special administration order providing
for any matter mentioned in subsection (1), the Minister must, within
the period specified in subsection (4), by notification in the Gazette,
establish a scheme for determining the amount of any compensation
payable by the prescribed transferee to the designated entity, the
trustee‑manager of the business, or the trustee of the trust (as the case
may be) for the transfer of the property, rights and liabilities.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
54  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (3) A scheme established under subsection (2) may provide for —

       (a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
            to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
            dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
            when making valuations;

       (b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
            appointed by the Minister; and

       (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the period specified for the purposes
of subsection (2) is —

       (a) within 6 months after the date of the making of the special
            administration order; or

       (b) if an application for reconsideration of the making of the
            special administration order has been made under
            section 38(1) and the Minister makes an order under
            section 38(3)(b) or (c) —

               (i) if no appeal is made against the order made under
                   section 38(3)(b) or (c) — within 6 months after the
                   date on which the order under section 38(3)(b) or (c)
                   is made; or

              (ii) if an appeal is made against the order made under
                   section 38(3)(b) or (c) and the Reviewing Tribunal
                   dismisses the appeal under section 43(3)(a) —
                   within 6 months after the date on which the
                   Reviewing Tribunal dismisses the appeal.

 (5) The period specified in subsection (4) may be extended by
agreement of the prescribed transferee and the designated entity, the
trustee‑manager of the business trust, or the trustee of the trust, as the
case may be.

 (6) In this section, “prescribed transferee” means —

       (a) the competent authority;

       (b) an appointed authority; or

       (c) a person nominated by the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            55

          Division 6 — National security interests directions
Directions if national security interests affected

 32.—(1) This section applies to any entity that satisfies any of the
following conditions:

       (a) the entity is incorporated, formed or established in
            Singapore;

       (b) the entity carries out any activity in Singapore;
       (c) the entity provides any goods and services to any person in

            Singapore.
 (2) This section applies if —

       (a) a person (X) —
               (i) acquires any equity interest in the entity;
              (ii) acquires control of any voting power in the entity;

             (iii) disposes of any equity interest in the entity;
             (iv) disposes of control of any voting power in the entity;
              (v) becomes an indirect controller of the entity; or
             (vi) acquires the business or undertaking, or any part of

                   the business or undertaking, of the entity,
       (a) (each called in this section the transaction); and
       (b) that entity has acted against the national security interests

            of Singapore within a period of 2 years after the
            transaction.
 (3) If this section applies, the Minister may, within a period of
2 years and 30 days after the transaction, publish a notice in the
Gazette (called in this Act a review notice) —
       (a) describing the transaction to which the notice relates;
       (b) stating X’s name and the name of the entity; and
       (c) stating that the Minister is reviewing the transaction.
 (4) The Minister may cancel a review notice at any time by
publishing a notice in the Gazette to that effect.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
56  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (5) When the Minister has published, and has not cancelled, a
review notice in relation to an entity, the Minister may at any time —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal (whether generally or to a
            specified person) of all or any of the equity interests in the
            entity held by X or any of X’s associates (called in this
            section and section 33 the section 32(5) equity interests),
            within the period, and subject to any conditions, that the
            Minister considers appropriate;

       (b) direct that the transfer or disposal of all or any of the
            section 32(5) equity interests be restricted, subject to any
            conditions that the Minister considers appropriate;

       (c) direct X to transfer or dispose (whether generally or to a
            specified person) of the control of voting power in the
            entity, within the period, and subject to any conditions, that
            the Minister considers appropriate;

       (d) direct —

               (i) the entity;

              (ii) in the case of an entity that is a business trust — the
                   trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

             (iii) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a
                   business trust — the trustee of the trust,

       (d) to take any steps that are necessary, within the period
            specified by the Minister, to cause X to cease to have
            control of any voting power in the entity or to be an indirect
            controller of the entity, as the case may be;

       (e) direct X to transfer or dispose (whether generally or to a
            specified person) of all or any part of the business or
            undertaking, within the period, and subject to any
            conditions, that the Minister considers appropriate;

        (f) direct —

               (i) the entity;

              (ii) in the case of an entity that is a business trust — the
                   trustee‑manager of the business trust; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            57

             (iii) in the case of an entity that is a trust other than a
                   business trust — the trustee of the trust,

        (f) to restrict the disclosure of any information relating to the
            affairs of the entity to any person; or

       (g) make any other direction that the Minister considers
            appropriate.

 (6) Before issuing any direction to a person under subsection (5),
the Minister must —

       (a) unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or
            desirable to do so, give the person written notice of the
            Minister’s intention to issue the direction and specify a
            date by which the person may make written representations
            with regard to the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the date specified under
            paragraph (a).

 (7) The Minister may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge any
direction under subsection (5) or suspend the operation of any such
direction.

 (8) A person who fails to comply with a direction under
subsection (5) (including a direction that is varied under
subsection (7)) within the period specified by the Minister, shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (2)(b), a certificate issued by the
Minister charged with the responsibility for internal security, stating
that that Minister is satisfied that the entity mentioned in the
certificate has acted against the national security interests of
Singapore, is conclusive evidence that the entity has so acted.

Effect of directions issued if Singapore’s national security
interests affected

 33.—(1) If any direction is issued under section 32(5), then, until
the direction is carried out or is revoked, discharged or suspended —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
58  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (a) the voting rights in respect of the section 32(5) equity
            interests are not exercisable, unless the Minister expressly
            permits those rights to be exercised;

       (b) the voting power that the person to whom the direction is
            issued controls, whether alone or together with that
            person’s associates, in the entity is not exercisable,
            unless the Minister expressly permits that power to be
            exercised;

       (c) no equity interest in the entity is to be issued or offered
            (whether by way of dividends, rights, bonus or otherwise)
            in respect of the specified equity interests, unless the
            Minister expressly permits that issue or offer; and

       (d) no amount may be paid (whether by way of dividends,
            profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the section 32(5)
            equity interests, unless the Minister expressly authorises
            that payment.

 (2) Subsection (1) and any direction issued under section 32(5)
have effect, despite —

       (a) the provisions of any other written law;

       (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

       (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
            association, trust deed or other constitution of the
            designated entity in question.

 (3) Any issue or offer of equity interests in contravention of
subsection (1)(c) is void.

 (4) Any payment made in contravention of subsection (1)(d) is
void.

 (5) Subsection (1)(d) does not apply in the event of a winding up,
dissolution or termination of the entity, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            59

              Division 7 — General provisions relating to
                   information gathering and penalties

Power of Minister to obtain information relating to this Part

 34.—(1) The Minister, the competent authority, or an appointed
authority (called in this section the requesting authority) may, by
written notice —

       (a) direct any entity to provide to the requesting authority any
            information relating to any holding of equity interests or
            control of voting power in the entity for the purposes of this
            Part; or

       (b) direct any entity to obtain from any of its shareholders,
            partners, unitholders or beneficiaries (as the case may be)
            (called in this section a relevant person) and to provide to
            the requesting authority, any information relating to the
            relevant person that may be required to ascertain or
            investigate into any holding of equity interests or control of
            voting power in the entity for the purposes of this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1)(b), the notice in that subsection
may require the entity to obtain and provide the following
information:

       (a) whether the relevant person holds an equity interest in the
            entity, as beneficial owner or as trustee;

       (b) if the relevant person holds the equity interest in the entity
            as trustee, to indicate as far as that relevant person is able
            to —

               (i) the person for whom that relevant person holds the
                   interest (either by name or by other particulars
                   sufficient to enable that person to be identified); and

              (ii) the nature of that person’s interest.

 (3) The requesting authority may, by written notice, require any
shareholder, partner, unitholder or beneficiary (as the case may be)
(X) of any entity, or any person (Y) that appears from information
provided under this subsection or subsection (1) to hold an equity
interest in the entity, to provide to the requesting authority any

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
60  NO. 1 OF 2024

information relating to X or Y (as the case may be) that may be
required for the purpose of ascertaining or investigating into any
holding of equity interests or control of voting power in the entity.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the notice in that subsection
may require X or Y to provide the following information:

       (a) whether X or Y holds the equity interest in the entity as
            beneficial owner or as trustee;

       (b) if X or Y holds the equity interest in the entity as trustee, to
            indicate as far as X or Y can —

               (i) the person (Z) for whom X or Y holds the equity
                   interest (either by name or by other particulars
                   sufficient to enable Z to be identified); and

              (ii) the nature of Z’s equity interest;

       (c) whether any equity interests or voting power is the subject
            of an agreement or arrangement described in
            section 15(1)(r) and, if so, to give particulars of the
            agreement or arrangement and the parties to it.

 (5) A person that —

       (a) fails to comply with a written notice under subsection (1)
            or (3);

       (b) in purported compliance with such notice, knowingly or
            recklessly provides any document or information that is
            false or misleading in a material particular; or

       (c) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
            or information which the person has been required by such
            notice to provide,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (d) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $10,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
            to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
            fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            61

       (e) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Provision of documents and other information

 35.—(1) Without limiting section 34, the Minister, the competent
authority, or an appointed authority (called in this section the
requesting authority) may by notice require any person to provide,
within a reasonable period specified in the notice, all documents and
information relating to any matter as are reasonably required by the
requesting authority to carry out the functions or duties assigned to
the requesting authority by or under this Act, which are within the
knowledge of that person or are in that person’s custody or under that
person’s control.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
            and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            requesting authority in legible form.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
notice under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) A person who —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
            or information which the person is required by a notice
            under subsection (1) to provide; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
62  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (b) in providing any document or information required under
            subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
            knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly
            makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) If a person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the requesting authority, make
any order that the court thinks fit to secure compliance with the notice
and any such order may provide that all the costs or expenses of and
incidental to the application are to be borne by such person or by any
officer of an entity who is responsible for the failure.

 (6) The requesting authority through an authorised officer may, at
any time after the expiry of the period specified in the notice
mentioned in subsection (1), enter any building or place where the
requesting authority has reason to believe that any document or
information, in respect of which the requesting authority has given
the notice, may be found, and seize or take extracts or copies of any
such document or information.

 (7) The requesting authority is entitled without payment to keep
any document or information, or any copy or extract thereof,
provided to it under subsection (1) or obtained under subsection (6).

 (8) Except in the performance of the person’s functions or duties or
when required to do so by any court or under any written law, no
person who is or has been a member, an officer, an employee or an
agent of the requesting authority or a member of a committee of the
requesting authority may disclose any information relating to the
affairs of the requesting authority or of any other person which has
been obtained by the person in the performance of the person’s
functions or duties.

 (9) A person who contravenes subsection (8) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (10) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3), (4)
or (9) shall be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            63

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $10,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
            to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000.

Penalties under this Part

 36.—(1) A person who is guilty of an offence under this Part for
which no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) if the offender is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding —

                    (A) in the case of an offence under section 18(3),
                          19(10), 20(2) or 21(11), or an offence under
                          section 32(8) if the offender is a person
                          mentioned in section 32(2)(a), the higher of
                          the following amounts:

                           (AA) the transaction value;

                            (AB) $500,000; or

                     (B) in any other case, $500,000; or

              (ii) to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years,

       (a) or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
            further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or part of
            a day during which the offence continues after conviction;
            or

       (b) if the offender is not an individual, to a fine not
            exceeding —

               (i) in the case of an offence under section 18(3), 19(10),
                   20(2) or 21(11), or an offence under section 32(8) if
                   the offender is a person mentioned in
                   section 32(2)(a), the higher of the following
                   amounts:

                    (A) the transaction value;

                     (B) $1 million; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
64  NO. 1 OF 2024

            (ii) in any other case, the higher of the following
                  amounts:

                   (A) 10% of the annual turnover of the offender’s
                         business;

                   (B) $1 million,

      (b) and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
           exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
           which the offence continues after conviction.

(2) For the purposes of this section —

      (a) the transaction value is —

             (i) in the case of an offence under section 18(3) — if the
                  offender became a Level A controller of a designated
                  entity by acquiring any equity interest or voting
                  power in any entity — the value of the consideration
                  for that acquisition;

            (ii) in the case of an offence under section 19(10) —

                   (A) the value of the consideration for the
                         acquisition of any equity interests or voting
                         power in any entity by which the offender
                         became a Level B controller, Level C
                         controller, Level D controller or indirect
                         controller of a designated entity;

                   (B) the value of the consideration for the transfer or
                         disposal of any equity interests or voting power
                         in any entity by which the offender ceased to be
                         a Level Y controller or Level Z controller of a
                         designated entity; or

                   (C) the value of the consideration for the
                         acquisition by the offender of the business or
                         undertaking, or the part of the business or
                         undertaking, as a going concern;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            65

             (iii) in the case of an offence under section 20(2) —

                    (A) the value of the consideration for the
                          acquisition of any equity interests or voting
                          power in any entity by which a person became
                          a Level A controller, Level B controller,
                          Level C controller, Level D controller or
                          indirect controller of the relevant designated
                          entity;

                     (B) the value of the consideration for the transfer or
                          disposal of any equity interests or voting power
                          in any entity by which a person ceased to be a
                          Level Y controller or Level Z controller of the
                          relevant designated entity; or

                     (C) the value of the consideration for the
                          acquisition of the business or undertaking, or
                          part of the business or undertaking, of the
                          relevant designated entity acquired by a
                          person;

             (iv) in the case of an offence under section 21(11) — if
                   the offender is a party to the transaction to which the
                   validation notice relates (being an acquisition,
                   transfer or disposal mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraph (ii)(A), (B) or (C)) — the value of
                   that transaction determined in the manner set out in
                   sub‑paragraph (ii)(A), (B) or (C); or

              (v) in the case of an offence under section 32(8) — if the
                   offender is the person mentioned in section 32(2)(a),
                   the value of the consideration for the acquisition or
                   disposal mentioned in section 32(2)(a)(i), (ii), (iii),
                   (iv) or (vi); and

       (b) the annual turnover of a person’s business is ascertained
            from the person’s latest audited accounts.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the value of a transaction that is void under
section 21(1) or (12) is to be determined as if the transaction were not
void.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
66  NO. 1 OF 2024

                                    PART 4

                    RECONSIDERATION, APPEALS
                        AND JUDICIAL REVIEW

Interpretation of this Part

 37. In this Part —

      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the Minister:

              (a) a designation of an entity under section 17(1);

              (b) a refusal to approve an application for approval under
                   section 19(1), (3) or (4);

              (c) a condition imposed under section 19(8);

              (d) a refusal to issue a validation notice under
                   section 21(3)(a);

              (e) a condition imposed under section 21(8);

              (f) a direction under section 22(2), 23(2) or 24(2);

              (g) a refusal to approve an application under
                   section 27(4)(b);

              (h) a direction of removal under section 28(2);

              (i) a decision to make any order under section 30(1);

              (j) a direction under section 32(5) or a variation of a
                   direction under section 32(7);

      “appellant” means the following in relation to an appealable
         decision:

              (a) the designated entity, if the appealable decision is
                   within paragraph (a) of the definition of “appealable
                   decision”;

              (b) the person who applied for approval under
                   section 19(1), (3) or (4), if the appealable decision
                   is within paragraph (b) of the definition of
                   “appealable decision”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            67

(c) the person on whom the condition was imposed
     under section 19(8), if the appealable decision is
     within paragraph (c) of the definition of “appealable
     decision”;

(d) the person who applied for the validation notice
     under section 21(2), if the appealable decision is
     within paragraph (d) of the definition of “appealable
     decision”;

(e) the person on whom the condition was imposed
     under section 21(8), if the appealable decision is
     within paragraph (e) of the definition of “appealable
     decision”;

(f) the person to whom the direction was issued under
     section 22(2), 23(2) or 24(2), if the appealable
     decision is within paragraph (f) of the definition of
     “appealable decision”;

(g) the designated entity who applied for approval under
     section 27(1), if the appealable decision is within
     paragraph (g) of the definition of “appealable
     decision”;

(h) the individual in relation to whom the application for
     appointment was refused under section 27(4)(b), if
     the appealable decision is within paragraph (g) of the
     definition of “appealable decision”;

(i) the individual who was removed under section 28(2),
     if the appealable decision is within paragraph (h) of
     the definition of “appealable decision”;

(j) the person affected by the order under section 30(1),
     if the appealable decision is within paragraph (i) of
     the definition of “appealable decision”;

(k) the person to whom the direction was issued under
     section 32(5) or in relation to whom the direction was
     varied under section 32(7), if the appealable decision
     is within paragraph (j) of the definition of
     “appealable decision”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
68  NO. 1 OF 2024

              (l) any other person aggrieved by the appealable
                   decision.

Reconsideration by Minister of appealable decision

 38.—(1) An appellant may apply to the Minister for
reconsideration of an appealable decision (called in this Part the
initial appealable decision).

 (2) An appellant must apply under subsection (1) —

       (a) in a prescribed manner; and

       (b) before the time specified in the initial appealable decision,
            being a time that must not be later than the 14th day after
            the initial appealable decision was given to the appellant.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) for
reconsideration, the Minister must —

       (a) wholly cancel the initial appealable decision;

       (b) substitute the initial appealable decision, with another
            appealable decision (called in this Part the substitute
            appealable decision) that the Minister might have made
            under this Act; or

       (c) affirm the initial appealable decision.

 (4) When a substitute appealable decision is made by the Minister
under subsection (3)(b), the Minister must immediately give the
appellant the substitute appealable decision in the same manner as the
initial appealable decision.

 (5) When an initial appealable decision is cancelled by the Minister
under subsection (3)(a) or affirmed under subsection (3)(c), or a
substitute appealable decision is made under subsection (3)(b), the
Minister must give notice (as the case may be) of —

       (a) the cancellation or affirmation (as the case may be) to
            every person given the initial appealable decision; or

       (b) the making of a substitute appealable decision to the
            appellant who applied for reconsideration of the initial
            appealable decision.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            69

 (6) There is to be no further reconsideration after a decision under
subsection (3).

 (7) An application to reconsider the Minister’s initial appealable
decision does not affect the operation of that decision or prevent the
taking of action to implement that decision, and the initial appealable
decision to be reconsidered must be complied with unless the
determination of the reconsideration indicates otherwise.

Appeal to Reviewing Tribunal

 39.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 44(1), an appellant
who is aggrieved by an initial appealable decision affirmed on
reconsideration under section 38 or a substitute appealable decision
made on reconsideration under section 38 may, on payment of such
fee as may be prescribed, appeal to a Reviewing Tribunal in
accordance with this Part.

 (2) No appeal may be made under this Part to a Reviewing Tribunal
unless the appellant has first applied under section 38(1) to the
Minister to reconsider the initial appealable decision and the Minister
has substituted or affirmed that decision under section 38(3).

 (3) An initial appealable decision affirmed on reconsideration
under section 38 continues to take effect despite any appeal under
subsection (1) against the decision and remains in effect until the
decision is reversed on appeal.

 (4) A substitute appealable decision made on reconsideration under
section 38 takes effect despite any appeal under subsection (1) against
the decision and remains in effect until the decision is reversed on
appeal.

Reviewing Tribunals — composition

 40.—(1) One or more bodies each called a Reviewing Tribunal is
established by this section.

 (2) Every Reviewing Tribunal consists of 3 individuals, each of
whom is appointed by the President on the advice of the Cabinet
subject to subsections (3) and (4).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
70  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (3) An individual must not be, or be appointed as, a member of any
Reviewing Tribunal if he or she is not a citizen of Singapore.

 (4) The chairperson of every Reviewing Tribunal must be a
Supreme Court Judge.

 (5) A member of a Reviewing Tribunal must vacate office at the
end of a period of 3 years starting the day of his or her appointment,
but is eligible for reappointment.

 (6) A member of a Reviewing Tribunal may resign his or her office
by giving notice in writing to the President.

 (7) In the performance of his or her functions and duties under this
Act, the members of a Reviewing Tribunal each have the same
protection and immunity as a Judge of the High Court.

 (8) The proceedings of a Reviewing Tribunal are deemed to be
judicial proceedings and every member of the Reviewing Tribunal is
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

Reviewing Tribunal — remuneration and other terms

 41.—(1) The Minister may pay to the members of a Reviewing
Tribunal out of moneys provided by Parliament any remuneration or
allowances that the Minister may, with the approval of the President,
fix.

 (2) The remuneration and other terms of service of each member of
a Reviewing Tribunal must not be altered to his or her disadvantage
during his or her continuance in office as such.

Reviewing Tribunal — resources

 42.—(1) All expenses of every Reviewing Tribunal are to be
defrayed out of moneys provided by Parliament.

 (2) The Minister must appoint a Secretary to the Reviewing
Tribunals and any other public officers that are necessary for a
Reviewing Tribunal to discharge its functions under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            71

Reviewing Tribunal — function

 43.—(1) It is the function and duty of every Reviewing Tribunal to
consider and determine any appeal made under section 39 and served
on the Secretary to the Reviewing Tribunals.

 (2) A Reviewing Tribunal may summarily dismiss any appeal
which it determines to be frivolous or vexatious.

 (3) A Reviewing Tribunal may determine an appeal made to the
Reviewing Tribunal by —

       (a) dismissing the appeal and confirming the decision
            appealed against; or

       (b) revoking the decision appealed against.

 (4) Every Reviewing Tribunal has to carry out its work
expeditiously.

 (5) A Reviewing Tribunal’s decision under subsection (3) is final.

Procedure before Reviewing Tribunal

 44.—(1) Except where a Reviewing Tribunal, having regard to all
the circumstances, is satisfied that it is equitable to do so, the
Reviewing Tribunal must not consider or determine any appeal that is
made more than 30 days after the Minister affirmed the initial
appealable decision or substituted the initial appealable decision with
the substitute appealable decision (as the case may be) upon
reconsideration under section 38(3).

 (2) A Reviewing Tribunal may at any stage in the appeal
proceedings, and without calling for a defence from the Minister
whose decision is appealed against, dismiss an appeal made to or
before it if the Reviewing Tribunal is satisfied that —

       (a) the appellant is not a person entitled to appeal under
            section 39;

       (b) the bringing of the appeal is or the proceedings of the
            appeal are frivolous or vexatious, which may include
            taking into account whether the appellant has habitually
            and persistently, and without any reasonable ground, made
            vexatious appeals to the Reviewing Tribunal; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
72  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (c) the appellant has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
            comply with the time delimited by any provision of rules
            made under section 45 for the submission of any notice,
            document or other information in the appeal proceedings,
            or with any direction of the Reviewing Tribunal under
            those rules.

 (3) Subject to rules made under section 45, every Reviewing
Tribunal is entitled to determine its own procedure in relation to any
appeal under section 39 made to or before the Reviewing Tribunal.

Rules for Reviewing Tribunal proceedings

 45.—(1) Rules may be made by the Minister to prescribe the
practice and procedure to be followed on, or in connection with, the
hearing or consideration of any proceedings or appeal (including, if
applicable, the mode and burden of proof and the admissibility of
evidence) before a Reviewing Tribunal.

 (2) In particular, the rules made under subsection (1) may
include —

       (a) requiring persons making an appeal to take any
            preliminary steps, and to make any disclosures, that may
            be specified in the rules for the purpose of facilitating a
            determination whether the making of the appeal is
            frivolous or vexatious;

       (b) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to hear or
            consider any proceedings or appeal without the person who
            brought the appeal having been given full particulars of the
            reasons for any conduct which is the subject of the
            proceedings or appeal;

       (c) the need to secure that matters which are the subject of
            proceedings or appeals brought before or made to a
            Reviewing Tribunal are properly heard and considered;

       (d) prescribing the circumstances and manner in which
            appeals in relation to the same decision, or involve the
            same or similar issues, may be consolidated or heard
            together;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            73

       (e) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to take any
            steps in exercise of their jurisdiction in the absence of any
            person (including the person bringing the proceedings or
            making the appeal and any legal representative of the
            person);

        (f) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to give a
            summary of any evidence taken in its absence to the person
            by whom the proceedings were brought or (as the case may
            be) to the person who made the appeal;

       (g) securing that information is not disclosed to an extent, or in
            a manner, that is contrary to the national security interests
            of Singapore, the prevention or detection of serious crime,
            the economic wellbeing of Singapore or the continued
            discharge of the functions of any of the intelligence
            services of Singapore; and

       (h) providing for the manner in which the interests of a person
            who has made an appeal under section 39 are to be
            represented, such as for the appointment in accordance
            with the rules, by such person as may be determined in
            accordance with the rules, of a person to represent those
            interests.

 (3) All rules made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Limited judicial review

 46.—(1) Every determination, order and other decision of a
Reviewing Tribunal or any Minister (including a certificate issued
under section 32(9)) made or purportedly made under this Act —

       (a) is final; and

       (b) is not to be challenged, appealed against, reviewed,
            quashed or called in question in any court, except in
            regard to any question relating to compliance with any
            procedural requirement of this Act or the regulations or
            rules governing that determination, order and other
            decision.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
74  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (2) A determination, an order and other decision includes a
determination, an order and other decision purportedly made,
proposed to be made, or required to be made, under this Act or any
regulations or rules if there were not an excess of jurisdiction or a
failure to exercise jurisdiction, in the making of the determination,
order or other decision.

                                    PART 5

                              ENFORCEMENT

Purposes for which enforcement powers are exercisable

 47.—(1) An authorised officer or a police officer may exercise the
powers set out in section 48 for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to determine compliance with this Act, including whether
            an offence under this Act has been committed;

       (b) to determine compliance with any condition of designation
            of a designated entity;

       (c) to determine compliance with any direction, notice or order
            issued under this Act;

       (d) to determine whether information provided to the Minister,
            a relevant Minister, the competent authority, an appointed
            authority or an authorised officer under a provision of this
            Act is correct.

 (2) A police officer may exercise the powers set out in sections 48,
49 and 50 for the purpose of determining whether there is any ground
for taking action against any person under section 32, including —

       (a) whether any person has —

               (i) acquired any equity interest in any entity;

              (ii) acquired control of any voting power in any entity;

             (iii) disposed of any equity interest in any entity;

             (iv) disposed of control of any voting power in any
                   entity;

              (v) become an indirect controller of any entity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            75

             (vi) acquired the business or undertaking, or any part of
                   the business or undertaking, of any entity; and

       (b) whether any entity has acted against the national security
            interests of Singapore.

 (3) For the purposes of this Part —

       (a) a Commercial Affairs Officer appointed under
            section 64(1) of the Police Force Act 2004 may —

               (i) exercise the powers conferred on a police officer by
                   section 48 for any of the purposes mentioned in
                   subsection (1); and

              (ii) exercise the powers conferred on a police officer by
                   sections 48, 49 and 50 for the purpose mentioned in
                   subsection (2); and

       (b) a reference in sections 48, 49, 50 and 52 to a police officer
            includes a reference to a Commercial Affairs Officer.

Power to obtain information

 48.—(1) An authorised officer or a police officer may by written
notice require any person to provide, within a reasonable period
specified in the notice, and in any form and manner that may be
specified in the notice, any document or information that —

       (a) relates to any matter that the authorised officer or police
            officer considers necessary for any of the purposes
            mentioned in section 47(1) or (2); and

       (b) is —

               (i) within the knowledge of that person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of that person.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an authorised officer or a police
officer may require —

       (a) any individual who is or was an officer, employee or agent
            of any entity; or

       (b) any other individual in Singapore whom the authorised
            officer or police officer (as the case may be) has reason to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
76  NO. 1 OF 2024

            believe to be acquainted with any facts or circumstances
            relevant to any of the purposes mentioned in section 47(1)
            or (2),

to attend before the authorised officer or police officer to answer any
question (to the best of that individual’s knowledge, information and
belief) and to provide any document or information.

 (3) The power under subsection (1) or (2) or section 49(2)(g) to
require a person or an individual to provide any document or
information includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was an
            officer or agent or a representative of the person, to provide
            an explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person or individual to state, to the best of the
            knowledge and belief of that person or individual, where it
            is;

       (c) if the document or information is recorded otherwise than
            in legible form, to require the document or information to
            be made available to the authorised officer or police officer
            in legible form; and

       (d) if the document or information is stored in a computer or
            other electronic device, and the person or individual is
            reasonably suspected to have knowledge of or access to
            any username, password or other authentication
            information required to gain access to the document or
            information, to require the person or individual to provide
            assistance (not limited to providing any username,
            password or other authentication information) to gain
            access to the computer or electronic device and the
            document or information therein.

 (4) The power under subsection (2) or section 49(2)(g) to require an
individual to answer a question includes the power to require the
individual to answer the question immediately or at such place and
time specified in writing.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            77

 (5) Any statement made by any individual in answer to a question
under subsection (4) must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the individual;

       (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
            interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
            and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by that individual.

 (6) An authorised officer or a police officer is entitled without
payment to keep any document or information, or any copy or extract
thereof, provided to the authorised officer or police officer under
subsection (1).

Powers of entry of premises without warrant

 49.—(1) A police officer may enter at any reasonable time any
premises which the police officer reasonably believes to be or may
be —

       (a) owned or occupied by an entity; or

       (b) where any activity is being or has been conducted,
            promoted or carried on, by any entity,

and do all or any of the activities mentioned in subsection (2) for any
of the purposes mentioned in section 47(1) or (2).

 (2) A police officer may, after entering any premises mentioned in
subsection (1), do all or any of the following:

       (a) examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the premises;

       (b) make a still or moving image or recording of any thing in
            or on the premises;

       (c) inspect any document on the premises and take extracts
            from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (d) take into or onto the premises such equipment and
            materials as the police officer requires for the purpose of
            exercising his or her powers in relation to the premises;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
78  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (e) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

        (f) search or cause to be searched any individual or any thing
            found in or on the premises for, and seize, any document or
            thing which the police officer believes on reasonable
            grounds —

               (i) is evidential material relevant to, or is intended to be
                   used for the purpose of committing —

                    (A) an offence under this Act or the regulations; or

                     (B) any act against the national security interests of
                          Singapore; and

              (ii) it is necessary to secure the document or thing in
                   order to prevent it from being concealed, lost or
                   destroyed;

       (g) require any individual found in the premises to answer any
            question (to the best of that individual’s knowledge,
            information and belief), and to provide any document or
            information, about any matter relevant to any purpose
            mentioned in section 47(1) or (2).

 (3) The power under subsection (2)(e) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            79

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            the premises.

 (4) A police officer may be assisted by other individuals in
exercising enforcement powers under this section if that assistance
is necessary and reasonable.

Powers of entry of premises under warrant

 50.—(1) A police officer may apply to a court for a warrant and the
court may issue such a warrant if it is satisfied that —

       (a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are,
            on any premises, documents —

               (i) the production of which has been required under
                   section 48; and

              (ii) which have not been produced as required;

       (b) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

               (i) there are, on any premises, documents which the
                   police officer has power under section 48 to require
                   to be produced; and

              (ii) if the documents were required to be produced, they
                   would not be produced but would be concealed,
                   removed, tampered with or destroyed; or

       (c) a police officer or a person assisting the police officer has
            attempted to enter the premises in the exercise of his or her
            powers under section 49 but has been unable to do so and
            that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there
            are, on the premises, documents the production of which
            could have been required under that section.

 (2) A warrant under this section authorises a named officer, and any
other persons that the police officer may require to assist him or her,
to do all or any of the following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
80  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (a) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
            force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

       (b) to search any person on those premises if there are
            reasonable grounds for believing that that person has in his
            or her possession any document, equipment or article that
            has a bearing on the investigation;

       (c) to search the premises and take copies of, or extracts from,
            any document appearing to be of a kind in respect of which
            the application under subsection (1) was granted (the
            relevant kind);

       (d) to take possession of any document appearing to be of the
            relevant kind if —

               (i) such action appears to be necessary for preserving
                   the document or preventing interference with it; or

              (ii) it is not reasonably practicable to take copies of the
                   document on the premises;

       (e) to take any other step that appears to be necessary for the
            purpose mentioned in paragraph (d)(i);

        (f) to require any person to provide an explanation of any
            document appearing to be of the relevant kind or to state, to
            the best of the person’s knowledge and belief, where it may
            be found;

       (g) to require any information that is stored in any electronic
            form and is accessible from the premises and that he or she
            considers relates to any matter relevant to the investigation,
            to be produced in a form —

               (i) in which it can be taken away; or

              (ii) in which it is visible and legible;

       (h) to remove from those premises for examination any
            equipment or article that relates to any matter relevant to
            the investigation.

 (3) If, in the case of a warrant under subsection (1)(b), the court is
satisfied that it is reasonable to suspect that there are also on the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            81

premises other documents relating to the investigation concerned, the
warrant may also authorise the actions mentioned in subsection (2) to
be taken in relation to any such document.

 (4) If possession of any document is taken under subsection (2)(d)
or (3), the named officer may, at the request of the person from whom
possession of the document was taken, provide such person with a
copy of the document.

 (5) A named officer may allow any equipment or article that has a
bearing on an investigation and that may be removed from any
premises for examination under subsection (2)(h) to be retained on
those premises subject to any conditions that the named officer may
require.

 (6) A warrant issued under this section —

       (a) must indicate the subject matter and purpose of the
            investigation; and

       (b) continues in force until the end of one month beginning
            from the day on which it is issued.

 (7) The powers conferred by this section must not be exercised
except upon production of a warrant issued under this section.

 (8) A person entering any premises by virtue of a warrant under this
section may take with the person such equipment as appears to the
person to be necessary.

 (9) If there is no one at the premises when the named officer
proposes to execute such a warrant, the named officer must, before
executing it —

       (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
            inform the occupier of the intended entry; and

       (b) if the occupier is informed, give the occupier or the
            occupier’s legal or other representative a reasonable
            opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (10) If the named officer is unable to inform the occupier of the
intended entry, the named officer must, when executing the warrant,
leave a copy of the warrant in a prominent place on the premises.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
82  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (11) On leaving any premises which the named officer has entered
by virtue of a warrant under this section, the named officer must, if
the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent,
leave them as effectively secured as the named officer found them.

 (12) Any document of which possession is taken under
subsection (2)(d) or (3) may be retained for a period of not more
than 3 months.

 (13) In this section —

      “named officer” means a police officer named in the warrant;

      “occupier”, in relation to any premises, means a person whom
         the police officer reasonably believes is the occupier of those
         premises.

Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010

 51. Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 apply, with the necessary modifications, when an
authorised officer seizes any thing under this Part.

Offences under this Part

 52.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person —

       (a) by an authorised officer or a police officer under
            section 48(1) or (2); or

       (b) by a police officer under section 49(2)(g),

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document, information or article which the person has
            been required by an authorised officer or a police officer
            under section 48(1) or (2), or by a police officer under
            section 49(2)(g), to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document, information or article
            required by an authorised officer or a police officer under
            section 48(1) or (2), or by a police officer under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            83

            section 49(2)(g), makes any statement which the person
            knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
            whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding $10,000
            or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
            to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
            fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day
            during which the offence continues after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the person —

       (a) does not possess the document, information or article
            required; or

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person to
            obtain the document, information or article required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (5) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or article or answer any question
if doing so might tend to incriminate that person.

Composition of offences

 53.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Minister may compound any
offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
84  NO. 1 OF 2024

       (a) in the case of an offence to which section 36(1)(a)(i)(A)
            applies — $250,000;

       (b) in the case of an offence to which section 36(1)(b)(i) or (ii)
            applies — $500,000; or

       (c) in any other case — one half of the amount of the
            maximum fine that is prescribed for the offence.

 (2) If the functions and powers of the Minister in respect of a
designated entity have been transferred to a relevant Minister under
section 6(2), the relevant Minister may compound any offence
specified in subsection (3) that is prescribed by the relevant Minister
as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding —

       (a) in the case of an offence to which section 36(1)(a)(i)(A)
            applies — $250,000;

       (b) in the case of an offence to which section 36(1)(b)(i) or (ii)
            applies — $500,000; or

       (c) in any other case — one half of the amount of the
            maximum fine that is prescribed for the offence.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the offences specified are —

       (a) any offence under Part 3 that is committed by or in relation
            to the designated entity;

       (b) any offence under section 52(1)(a) involving the failure to
            do anything required by an authorised officer appointed by
            the relevant Minister’s appointed authority; and

       (c) any offence under section 52(2) relating to any matter
            specified in that provision connected with a requirement of
            an authorised officer appointed by the relevant Minister’s
            appointed authority.

 (4) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (1) or (2), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

 (5) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            85

 (6) In this section, “relevant Minister’s appointed authority” means
the appointed authority appointed by the relevant Minister under
section 7(1).

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria

 54.—(1) For the purpose of determining whether a person is a fit
and proper person under this Act or any provision of this Act, the
Minister may issue or adopt Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria.

 (2) If the functions and powers of the Minister in respect of a
designated entity have been transferred to a relevant Minister under
section 6(2), then, for the purpose of determining whether a person is
a fit and proper person under this Act or any provision of this Act in
relation to that designated entity, the relevant Minister may issue or
adopt Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria.

 (3) The Minister or relevant Minister may, at any time, vary or
revoke the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria issued by the
Minister or relevant Minister (as the case may be) mentioned in
subsection (1) or (2), or any part of the Guidelines.

 (4) The Minister or relevant Minister (as the case may be) must —

       (a) ensure that the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria, or
            their variation or revocation, are published on the
            prescribed website;

       (b) specify in the publication, the date on which the Guidelines
            on Fit and Proper Criteria, or their variation or revocation,
            take effect; and

       (c) ensure that the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria
            (including any variation to them) remain available to the
            public for access and inspection without charge.

 (5) To avoid doubt, the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria
mentioned in subsections (1) and (2) are deemed not to be subsidiary
legislation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
86  NO. 1 OF 2024

 (6) To avoid doubt, the Guidelines on Fit and Proper Criteria do not
prevent any other matter or evidence that may be relevant to be taken
into account in determining whether a person is or is not a fit and
proper person.

Protection from personal liability

 55. No liability shall be incurred by the competent authority, an
appointed authority, any authorised officer, a member of or any other
person acting under the direction of the competent authority or an
appointed authority, for anything which is done or purported to be
done in good faith and with reasonable care in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or duty under this Act.

Exemption

 56.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act,
either generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions
as the Minister may impose.

 (2) If the functions and powers of the Minister in respect of a
designated entity have been transferred to a relevant Minister under
section 6(2), that relevant Minister may, by order in the Gazette —

       (a) exempt that designated entity from part or all of the
            provisions mentioned in section 6(3)(b), subject to such
            conditions as the relevant Minister may impose; and

       (b) exempt any person or class of persons from part or all of
            the provisions mentioned in section 6(3)(b), in relation to
            that designated entity, subject to such conditions as the
            relevant Minister may impose.

Regulations

 57.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or necessary or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS REVIEW                            87

convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) If the functions and powers of the Minister in respect of a
designated entity have been transferred to a relevant Minister under
section 6(2), that relevant Minister may make regulations —

       (a) prescribing, in respect of that designated entity, matters
            required or permitted to be prescribed under sections 14(1)
            and (9), 16(2) and (3), 29(3) and 54(4)(a); and

       (b) prescribing the offences that may be compoundable under
            section 53(2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/3/2024
