THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           MEDICAL REGISTRATION ACT 1997

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Medical Registration Act 1997

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                               PART 1
                          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
          Interpretation
     1.   Object of Act
     2.
     2A.

                                        PART 2

                               MEDICAL COUNCIL

 3. Medical Council to continue to exist
 4. Constitution of Medical Council
 5. Functions of Medical Council
 6. Compulsory voting
 7. President of Medical Council
 8. Disqualifications for membership of Medical Council
 9. Filling of vacancies
10. Appointment of executive director, executive secretary and other

         employees
11. Appointment of committees
12. Meetings and quorum of Medical Council

                                        PART 3

              PRIVILEGES OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS

13. Qualifications to practise
14. No remuneration recoverable by unauthorised persons
15. Medical certificates
16. Legally qualified or duly qualified medical practitioner
17. Unauthorised person acting as medical practitioner

                                                   1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                                     2

          PART 4

          REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS

Section   Registrar of Medical Council
   18.    Registers
   19.    Full registration
   20.    Conditional registration
   21.    Registration of specialists
   22.    Registration of family physicians
   22A.   Temporary registration
   23.    Provisional registration
   24.    Certificate of experience in approved hospital
   25.    Experience required for holders of degrees other than Singapore
   26.    degrees
          Evidence of qualification and entry of additional qualifications
   27.    Application for registration
   28.    Credentials Committee
   29.    Publication of list of registered medical practitioners with
   30.    practising certificates
          Alterations in registers
   31.    Power of Medical Council to remove names from registers
   32.    Restoration of names removed under section 31 or 32
   33.

                                        PART 5
                  SPECIALISTS ACCREDITATION BOARD

34. Establishment of Specialists Accreditation Board
35. Functions of Specialists Accreditation Board

                                       PART 5A
            FAMILY PHYSICIANS ACCREDITATION BOARD

35A. Establishment of Family Physicians Accreditation Board
35B. Functions of Family Physicians Accreditation Board

                                        PART 6
                         PRACTISING CERTIFICATES

36. Practising certificates
37. Cancellation of practising certificates

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
3  Medical Registration Act 1997                                     2020 Ed.

   PART 7

   DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND INQUIRIES

   Division 1 — Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

Section
   38. Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

   Division 2 — Inquiries into complaints against and
   information about registered medical practitioners

   39. Appointment of Complaints Panel
   40. Complaints against registered medical practitioners, etc.
   41. Limitation period for complaints, etc.
   42. Complaints made, etc., after expiration of limitation period

   Division 3 — Inquiry Committees

   43. Inquiry by Inquiry Committee

   Division 4 — Complaints Committees

   44. Appointment of Complaints Committees
   45. Inquiry by Complaints Committee
   46. Findings of Complaints Committee

   Division 5 — Mediation and withdrawal, etc.

   47. Mediation
   48. Withdrawal of matter
   49. Inquiry Committee or Complaints Committee may make costs

            orders

   Division 6 — Investigations and assessments

   50. Conduct of investigation by investigator
   51. Investigation report and information obtained in course of

            investigation or inquiry
   52. Performance assessment
   53. Fitness assessment

   Division 7 — Review by Review Committee

   54. Request for review
   55. Appointment of Review Committee
   56. Review by Review Committee

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                                     4

          Division 8 — Disciplinary Commission and
                       Disciplinary Tribunals

Section   Disciplinary Commission
          Appointment of Disciplinary Tribunals
   57.    Appointment of Disciplinary Tribunal by Chief Justice
   58.    Proceedings of Disciplinary Tribunal
   59.    Appointment of experts and legal counsel
   59A.   Referral and transfer of cases to Health Committee
   59B.   Findings of Disciplinary Tribunal
   59C.   Further orders by Disciplinary Tribunal
   59D.   When order by Disciplinary Tribunal takes effect
   59E.   Appeal against Disciplinary Tribunal’s decision or order
   59F.
   59G.

          Division 9 — Health Committees

59H. Appointment of Health Committees
59I. Unfitness to practise medicine through illness, etc.

          Division 10 — Interim Orders Committees

59J.      Interim Orders Committee
59K.      Immediate interim orders
59L.      Interim orders
59M.      Review of interim orders
59N.      Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace interim
          order
59O.      Right of hearing
59P.      Application to General Division of the High Court
59Q.      Duration of interim orders
59R.      Person suspended under interim suspension order not regarded
          as registered

          Division 11 — Miscellaneous

59S.      Medical Council may appoint legal counsel
59T.      Restoration of names to register
59U.      Applications to General Division of the High Court for extension
          of time
59V.      Meetings and proceedings of committees
59W.      Employee of Ministry of Health not disqualified from being
          committee member
59X.      Confidentiality of information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
5        Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

         PART 8

         GENERAL

Section  Application of funds of Medical Council, etc.
   60.   Investigators
   60A.  Proceedings conducted by officers of Medical Council
   61.   Fraudulent registration
   62.   Medical practitioner not to practise during suspension from
   63.   practice
         Medical practitioner to use only qualifications entered in register
   64.   and approved title, etc.
         False assumption of title of specialist or family physician
   65.   Deemed public servants
   65A.  General exemption
   65B.  Exemption for ships’ surgeons
   66.   Composition of offences
   66A.  Duty of medical practitioner to inform Medical Council of
   67.   medical practitioners who are unfit to practise
         Protection from personal liability
   68.   Power to amend, vary, rescind, revoke or suspend condition or
   68A.  restriction
         Service of documents
   68B.  Jurisdiction of court
   69.   Regulations
   70.   Rules relating to Disciplinary Commission and Disciplinary
   70A.  Tribunals
         Amendment of Schedules
   71.

                                           PART 9

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

   72. Persons who are already registered
   73. Pending disciplinary proceedings
   74. Term of office of member appointed or elected to take place of

            existing member
   75. Transitional provisions

            First Schedule — Singapore degree
            Second Schedule — List of registrable basic medical

                                      qualifications

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            6

An Act to provide for the registration of medical practitioners and for
  matters connected therewith.

                                         [3 April 1998]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Medical Registration Act 1997.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “certificate of experience” means a certificate granted under
         section 25;

      “Complaints Committee” means a committee appointed by the
         chairman of the Complaints Panel under section 44;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

      “Complaints Panel” means the panel appointed by the Medical
         Council under section 39;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

      “conditional registration” means registration in Part II of the
         Register of Medical Practitioners pursuant to section 21 or
         any other provision of this Act, which registration is subject
         to any condition or restriction as may be imposed;

      “degree” means any degree or diploma or any qualification
         granted by any university or institution legally authorised to
         grant that degree or diploma or qualification and which
         degree or diploma or qualification is recognised or approved
         by the Medical Council;

      “Disciplinary Tribunal” means a tribunal appointed by the
         President of the Disciplinary Commission under section 58 or
         the Chief Justice under section 59;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
7  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

   “fully registered medical practitioner” means a person registered
      in Part I of the Register of Medical Practitioners in
      accordance with section 20(1) or (2), as the case may be;

   “Health Committee” means a committee appointed by the
      Medical Council under section 59H;

                                                                          [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

   “Interim Orders Committee” means a committee appointed by
      the Medical Council under section 59J;

                                                                          [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

   “lay person” means any person who —

   (a) has rendered distinguished public service, or has
        achieved distinction in any field; and

           (b) is not a legal professional or a registered medical
                practitioner;

                                                                          [Act 33 of 2021 wef 01/07/2022]

   “legal professional” means any person who —

   (a) has at any time held but no longer holds, office as a
        Supreme Court Judge or a Judicial Commissioner;

                                                              [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

   (b) is an advocate and solicitor of at least 15 years’
        standing; or

           (c) is a Judicial Service Officer or Legal Service Officer
                who has in the aggregate at least 15 years of full-time
                employment in the Singapore Judicial Service or the
                Singapore Legal Service (or both);

                                                                          [Act 33 of 2021 wef 01/07/2022]

   “Medical Council” means the Medical Council of Singapore
      established under section 3(1) of the repealed Medical
      Registration Act (Cap. 174, 1985 Revised Edition), and by
      virtue of section 3 of this Act means the Singapore Medical
      Council;

   “practising certificate” means a practising certificate granted
      under section 36;

   “president” means the president of the Medical Council;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            8

“professional performance” means the knowledge, skill or care
   possessed and applied by a registered medical practitioner in
   the provision of medical services;

“provisional registration” means registration by virtue of
   section 24 and “provisionally registered” is to be construed
   accordingly;

“registered medical practitioner” means a person registered
   under this Act and includes a person deemed to be so
   registered under section 72(1);

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Medical Council;

“Registrar of the Supreme Court” includes the Deputy Registrar
   and an Assistant Registrar;

                                                                             [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

    “Singapore degree” means a degree, diploma or licence in
        medicine and surgery specified in the First Schedule.

                                                                             [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

(2) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

(3) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

(4) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Object of Act

 2A. The object of this Act is to protect the health and safety of the
public by providing for mechanisms to —

       (a) ensure that registered medical practitioners are competent
            and fit to practise medicine;

       (b) uphold standards of practice within the medical profession;
            and

       (c) maintain public confidence in the medical profession.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
9  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

   PART 2

   MEDICAL COUNCIL

Medical Council to continue to exist

 3. The Medical Council of Singapore is to continue to exist as a
body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal and,
as from 3 April 1998, be called the Singapore Medical Council.

Constitution of Medical Council

 4.—(1) The Medical Council consists of —

       (a) the Director‑General of Health;

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

       (b) a member of the Academy of Medicine Singapore
            appointed by the Minister, who —

               (i) is the Master of the Academy; or

              (ii) is a member of the council of the Academy
                   nominated by the Master of the Academy;

       (c) a member of the College of Family Physicians Singapore
            appointed by the Minister, who —

               (i) is the President of the College; or

              (ii) is a member of the council of the College nominated
                   by the President of the College;

       (d) a member of the Singapore Medical Association appointed
            by the Minister, who —

               (i) is the President of the Association; or

              (ii) is a member of the council of the Association
                   nominated by the President of the Association;

       (e) a member of the faculty of each prescribed medical school
            in Singapore appointed by the Minister who —

               (i) is the Dean of the prescribed medical school; or

              (ii) is nominated by the Dean;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            10

          (f) 12 registered medical practitioners resident in Singapore
              who are elected by the fully registered medical
              practitioners resident in Singapore; and

       (g) 8 registered medical practitioners resident in Singapore
            who are appointed by the Minister.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) The members of the Medical Council mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) to (g) are appointed or elected for a term not
exceeding 3 years and are eligible for re‑appointment or re‑election,
as the case may be.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (3) If for any reason the Director‑General of Health is unable to
attend a particular meeting of the Medical Council, the
Director‑General of Health may nominate a representative to attend
the meeting and when so attending the representative is deemed for
all purposes to be a member of the Medical Council.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member appointed under subsection (1)(b), (c), (d), (e) or (g) without
giving any reason.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Functions of Medical Council

 5. The functions of the Medical Council are —

       (a) to keep and maintain registers of registered medical
            practitioners;

       (b) to approve or reject applications for registration under this
            Act or to approve any such application subject to such
            restrictions as it may think fit;

       (c) to issue practising certificates to registered medical
            practitioners;

       (d) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities on
            the courses of instructions and examinations leading to the
            Singapore degree;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
11  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (e) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities for
        the training and education of registered medical
        practitioners;

    (f) to determine and regulate the conduct and ethics of
        registered medical practitioners;

    (fa) to determine and regulate standards of practice and the
         competence of registered medical practitioners within the
         medical profession;

    (fb) to provide administrative services to other bodies (whether
         corporate or unincorporate) responsible for the regulation
         of healthcare professionals; and

    (g) generally to do all such acts and matters and things as are
         necessary to be carried out under this Act.

Compulsory voting

 6.—(1) Every fully registered medical practitioner resident in
Singapore who has in force a practising certificate on the day of
election of candidates as members of the Medical Council mentioned
in section 4(1)(f) must vote for the election of such members at such
time and in such manner as may be prescribed.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) Every registered medical practitioner who is required to vote for
the election of the members of the Medical Council in accordance
with subsection (1) and who fails to do so is not entitled to apply for a
practising certificate unless he —

       (a) satisfies the Registrar that he had a good and sufficient
            reason for not voting at the election; or

       (b) pays to the Medical Council a penalty prescribed by the
            Medical Council.

President of Medical Council

 7.—(1) The Medical Council has a president who is elected by the
members of the Medical Council from among its members.

 (2) The president elected under subsection (1) serves for a term not
extending beyond the expiry of the term for which he has been

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            12

appointed or elected to be a member of the Medical Council and is
eligible for re‑election.

 (3) The president presides at any meeting of the Medical Council
and, in his absence, such member as the members present may elect
presides at that meeting.

Disqualifications for membership of Medical Council

 8. A person must not be a member of the Medical Council —

       (a) if the person is not a citizen or a permanent resident of
            Singapore;

       (b) if the person is not a registered medical practitioner with at
            least 8 years’ experience in the practice of medicine;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

       (c) if the person is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (d) if the person has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere
            of any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral
            turpitude or implying a defect in character which makes
            the person unfit for the person’s profession;

       (e) if the person has been found guilty in Singapore or
            elsewhere of any improper act or conduct which brings
            disrepute to the person’s profession;

        (f) if the person has been found guilty in Singapore or
            elsewhere of professional misconduct; or

       (g) if the person’s fitness to practise medicine is judged by the
            Health Committee to be impaired by reason of the person’s
            physical or mental condition.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Filling of vacancies
 9.—(1) The office of a member of the Medical Council becomes

vacant if the member —
       (a) dies;
       (b) resigns the member’s office;
       (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
13  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (d) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
         section 8;

    (e) without any good and sufficient reason, refuses to accept
        an appointment as a member of any committee appointed
        under section 11 or of the Credentials Committee or the
        Health Committee; or

    (f) has the member’s appointment revoked before the expiry
        of the term for which the member has been appointed.

 (2) The Medical Council may, with the approval of the Minister,
remove from office any member of the Medical Council who is
absent without leave of the Medical Council from 3 consecutive
ordinary meetings of —

    (a) the Medical Council; or

    (b) any committee appointed under section 11 or of the
         Credentials Committee or the Health Committee of which
         he is a member.

 (3) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a member
of the Medical Council is to be determined by the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (4) If any vacancy arises among the elected members, the Minister
must, as soon as practicable, appoint any registered medical
practitioner resident in Singapore to fill that vacancy.

 (5) If any vacancy arises among the appointed members, the
Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy in the manner in
which the appointment to the vacant office was made.

 (6) Any person appointed to fill the vacancy holds office for as long
as the member in whose place the person was appointed would have
held office.

 (7) The Medical Council may act despite any vacancy in the
Medical Council and no act done by or by the authority of the Medical
Council is invalid in consequence of any defect that is afterwards
discovered in the appointment or election or qualification of the
members or any of them.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            14

Appointment of executive director, executive secretary and
other employees

 10. The Medical Council may appoint an executive director,
executive secretary and such other employees on such terms and
conditions as the Medical Council may determine.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Appointment of committees

 11.—(1) The Medical Council may —

       (a) appoint one or more committees for any general or special
            purpose which in the opinion of the Medical Council may
            be better dealt with or managed by a committee; and

       (b) delegate to any committee so appointed, with or without
            restrictions or conditions as it thinks fit, any of the powers
            or functions which may be exercised or performed by the
            Medical Council.

 (2) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
appointed under this section and the number of those members
necessary to form a quorum are to be fixed by the Medical Council.

 (3) A committee appointed under this section may include persons
who are not members of the Medical Council.

Meetings and quorum of Medical Council

 12.—(1) The Medical Council is to meet at such times and places as
the president or the Registrar may appoint.

 (2) The quorum at every meeting of the Medical Council must be
one‑third of the total number of members in office or 7 members,
whichever is the higher.

 (3) The chairman at any meeting of the Medical Council has an
original vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

 (4) There are to be paid to the members of the Medical Council and
members of any committee appointed by the Medical Council, or
their respective employers, such fees as may be approved by the
Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
15  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (5) The Medical Council may make rules for the conduct of its
business.

                                    PART 3

          PRIVILEGES OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS

Qualifications to practise

 13. Subject to section 66 —

       (a) a person must not practise medicine or do any act as a
            medical practitioner unless the person is registered under
            this Act and has a valid practising certificate; and

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

       (b) a person who is not so qualified is called in this Act an
            unauthorised person.

No remuneration recoverable by unauthorised persons

 14. Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person is not entitled to
demand, claim, accept, receive or retain or sue for or recover by any
means any charge, fee, disbursement, expense or any
remuneration —

       (a) for or in connection with any medical or surgical advice,
            service, attendance or treatment or any operation
            performed; or

       (b) for any medicine which the person has prescribed and
            supplied,

unless at the time of rendering such services the person is registered
under this Act and has a valid practising certificate.

Medical certificates

 15. A certificate or any other document required by any written law
to be signed by a duly qualified medical practitioner given after
3 April 1998 is not valid unless signed by a person who is registered
under this Act and has a valid practising certificate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            16

Legally qualified or duly qualified medical practitioner

16. In any written law —

(a) “legally qualified medical practitioner”;

(b) “duly qualified medical practitioner”; or

          (c) any expression importing a person recognised by law as a
              medical practitioner or member of the medical profession,

is to be construed to mean a person who is registered under this Act
and has a valid practising certificate.

Unauthorised person acting as medical practitioner

 17.—(1) Any unauthorised person who —

       (a) practises medicine;

       (b) wilfully and falsely pretends to be a duly qualified medical
            practitioner;

       (c) practises medicine or any branch of medicine, under the
            style or title of a physician, surgeon, doctor, licentiate in
            medicine or surgery, bachelor of medicine, or medical
            practitioner, or under any name, title, addition or
            description implying that he holds any diploma or degree
            in medicine or surgery or in any branch of medicine;

       (d) advertises or holds himself out as a medical practitioner; or

       (e) contravenes section 13 or 14,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) It is a defence to a prosecution under subsection (1) if the
defendant proves that —

       (a) he practised a system of therapeutics according to Malay,
            Chinese or Indian method; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
17  Medical Registration Act 1997  2020 Ed.

    (b) he did not in any way represent himself as a duly qualified
         or registered medical practitioner.

                                    PART 4

        REGISTRATION OF MEDICAL PRACTITIONERS

Registrar of Medical Council

 18.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, there is to be a Registrar of
the Medical Council.

 (2) The Director‑General of Health is to be the Registrar of the
Medical Council.

                                                                                [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

 (3) The Minister may appoint a Deputy Registrar to assist the
Registrar in carrying out the Registrar’s functions and duties under
this Act.

 (4) The Registrar may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
the Registrar thinks fit, delegate to the Deputy Registrar any of the
Registrar’s powers or functions under this Act, except the power of
delegation conferred by this section.

 (5) The Registrar may continue to exercise any power conferred on
the Registrar or perform any function under this Act despite the
delegation of such power or function under this section.

Registers

 19.—(1) In addition to duties under the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Registrar must maintain and keep the following
registers:

       (a) a register to be called “The Register of Medical
            Practitioners” containing —

               (i) in Part I of the Register, the names of persons
                   registered as fully registered medical practitioners
                   under section 20(1) and (2); and

              (ii) in Part II of the Register, the names of persons
                   registered as medical practitioners with conditional
                   registration;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                              18

(b) a register to be called “The Register of Specialists”
     containing the names of persons registered as specialists
     under section 22;

(ba) a register to be called “The Register of Family Physicians”
      containing the names of persons registered as family
      physicians under section 22A;

          (c) a register to be called “The Register of Temporarily
              Registered Medical Practitioners” containing the names of
              persons who are registered temporarily as medical
              practitioners under section 23; and

      (d) a register to be called “The Register of Provisionally
           Registered Medical Practitioners” containing the names of
           persons registered provisionally under section 24.

                                                                                                           [5/2018]

(2) Each register must contain —

(a) the names and addresses of the persons registered;

(b) the dates of the registration of the persons;

          (c) the qualifications by virtue of which the persons are so
              registered and the dates they obtained such qualifications;
              and

(d) such other particulars as the Medical Council may
     determine for that register.

 (3) The Registrar is responsible for the maintenance and custody of
the registers.

 (4) Every person whose name is registered in any of the registers
must inform the Registrar in writing of —

(a) any change in the person’s name or residential address;

(b) any change in the person’s practice address or such of the
     person’s other particulars as may be prescribed; or

          (c) any change or addition to the person’s qualification,

within 28 days after such change or addition.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
19  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (4A) Any person who contravenes subsection (4)(a) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

 (4B) A person who makes a report of a change in the person’s
residential address under section 10 of the National Registration
Act 1965 is deemed to have complied with subsection (4)(a) on the
date on which the person makes the report.

 (5) The Registrar may disclose any information in the registers to
any person prescribed by regulations made under this Act, if such
disclosure is in accordance with such conditions as may be specified
in those regulations.

 (6) Subsection (5) is without prejudice to any other right or duty to
disclose the information under general or written law.

Full registration

 20.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who —

       (a) holds a Singapore degree;

       (b) holds a certificate of experience or any other certificate
            specified by the Medical Council; and

       (c) satisfies such other requirements as the Medical Council
            may, with the approval of the Minister, prescribe,

is entitled to be registered as a fully registered medical practitioner in
Part I of the Register of Medical Practitioners.

 (1A) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), the Medical Council
may prescribe different requirements for the different degrees,
diplomas or licences in medicine and surgery specified in the
First Schedule.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a person, not being a Singapore degree
holder, who —

       (a) holds such qualifications as may be recognised by the
            Medical Council;

       (b) complies with section 26;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            20

          (c) satisfies such other requirements as the Medical Council
              may, with the approval of the Minister, prescribe; and

(d) satisfies the Medical Council that the person has special
     knowledge and skill and sufficient experience in any
     particular branch of medicine,

is, if the Medical Council thinks fit so to direct, to be registered as a
fully registered medical practitioner.

 (3) Despite subsections (1) and (2), the Medical Council may, if it is
of the view that it is not in the public interest for a person mentioned
in either of those subsections to be registered as a fully registered
medical practitioner, direct that the person be registered as a medical
practitioner with conditional registration in Part II of the Register of
Medical Practitioners, and section 21(4) and (6) to (9) applies
accordingly.

Conditional registration

 21.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who —

       (a) holds a degree from a university specified in the
            Second Schedule or any other qualification which is, in
            the opinion of the Medical Council, not lower in standing
            than a degree specified in the Second Schedule;

       (b) has been selected for employment in Singapore as a
            medical practitioner in hospitals or other institutions or
            medical practice approved by the Medical Council;

       (c) satisfies the Medical Council that the person has the
            knowledge and skill and has acquired the experience which
            is necessary for practice as a medical practitioner;

       (d) complies with section 26; and

       (e) satisfies such other requirements as the Medical Council
            may, with the approval of the Minister, prescribe,

is, if the Medical Council thinks fit so to direct and subject to such
conditions or restrictions as the Medical Council may think fit to
impose, to be registered as a medical practitioner with conditional
registration in Part II of the Register of Medical Practitioners.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
21  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who holds —

    (a) a Singapore degree; and

    (b) a certificate approved by the Medical Council as being
         equivalent to a certificate of experience and granted by a
         hospital or an institution outside Singapore that is
         recognised by the Medical Council for the purpose of
         this paragraph,

is entitled to be registered as a medical practitioner with conditional
registration in Part II of the Register of Medical Practitioners and is
subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Medical Council may
think fit to impose.

 (3) The Medical Council may require a person with a degree, other
than a degree specified in the Second Schedule, to undergo and pass
an examination conducted or arranged by the Medical Council or by
such other person or persons as the Medical Council may appoint to
satisfy itself that the degree is not lower in standing than a degree
specified in the Second Schedule.

 (4) Every direction by virtue of which a person is registered under
this section must specify the conditions or restrictions of the person’s
registration and may further specify one or more of the following:

    (a) that the person must work for a specified period under the
         supervision of a fully registered medical practitioner
         approved by the Medical Council;

    (b) that the person’s performance must be subject to review by
         such fully registered medical practitioners or healthcare
         professionals as the Medical Council may determine;

    (c) the particular employment or descriptions of employment
        for the purposes of which the person is so registered.

(5) [Deleted by Act 1 of 2010]

 (6) The Medical Council may cancel the conditional registration of
a medical practitioner if —

    (a) the medical practitioner fails to comply with any of the
         conditions or restrictions specified in the direction by
         virtue of which the person is registered; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            22

(b) the Medical Council is of the opinion, having regard to any
     report of one or more fully registered medical practitioners
     supervising the person and any reviews of the medical
     practitioners or healthcare professionals mentioned in
     subsection (4)(b) (if any) that the person is unable to
     perform the duties of a medical practitioner satisfactorily.

 (7) A person who is or has been registered with conditional
registration may —

(a) after the expiry of the period of supervision under
     subsection (4)(a); and

(b) upon the revocation or lapse of all the conditions or
     restrictions specified under subsection (4),

apply to the Medical Council to be registered as a fully registered
medical practitioner.

 (8) If the Medical Council thinks fit so to direct, having regard to
the knowledge and skill shown and the experience acquired by the
applicant mentioned in subsection (7), the applicant is to be registered
under section 20 as a fully registered medical practitioner.

 (9) On a medical practitioner with conditional registration
becoming registered otherwise than conditionally, the medical
practitioner’s name must be removed from Part II of the Register
of Medical Practitioners.

Registration of specialists

 22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person —

       (a) who holds such postgraduate degrees or qualifications; or

       (b) who has gained such special knowledge of and skill and
            experience,

in a particular branch or branches of medicine, may apply to the
Medical Council to be registered as a specialist.

 (1A) A person may be registered under subsection (1) as a specialist
subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Medical Council may
impose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
23  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (2) The Medical Council must not register any person under
subsection (1) as a specialist unless the person has obtained a
certificate from the Specialists Accreditation Board under section 35.

 (3) The Medical Council may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

    (a) providing for the registration of specialists in any branch of
         medicine;

    (b) regulating the recording in, removal from, and restoration
         to the Register of Specialists of the names, particulars and
         qualifications of persons so registered;

    (c) providing for appeals by medical practitioners against any
        refusal of the Medical Council to register them in the
        Register of Specialists or to restore their names to that
        Register or against any decision of the Medical Council to
        remove their names from that Register;

    (d) prescribing the fees payable in respect of —

    (i) any application for registration as a specialist;

    (ii) any such registration as a specialist;

    (iii) any restoration of names to the Register of
          Specialists; and

    (iv) any appeal.

Registration of family physicians

 22A.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person —

       (a) who holds such postgraduate degrees or qualifications; or

       (b) who has gained such special knowledge of and skill and
            experience,

in family medicine, may apply to the Medical Council to be registered
as a family physician in the Register of Family Physicians.

 (2) A person may be registered under subsection (1) as a family
physician subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Medical
Council may impose.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            24

 (3) The Medical Council must not register any person under
subsection (1) as a family physician unless the person has obtained a
certificate from the Family Physicians Accreditation Board under
section 35B.

 (4) The Medical Council may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

(a) providing for the registration of family physicians;

(b) regulating the recording in, removal from, and restoration
     to the Register of Family Physicians of the names,
     particulars and qualifications of persons so registered;

          (c) providing for appeals by medical practitioners against any
              decision of the Medical Council refusing to register them
              in the Register of Family Physicians or to restore their
              names to that Register or against any decision of the
              Medical Council to remove their names from that Register;

(d) prescribing the fees payable in respect of —

          (i) any application for registration as a family physician;

          (ii) any such registration as a family physician;

          (iii) any restoration of names to the Register of Family
                Physicians; and

          (iv) any appeal.

Temporary registration

 23.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person —

       (a) who is in Singapore for the purpose of teaching, research or
            postgraduate study in medicine under such training scheme
            as may be approved by the Minister in any institution
            recognised by the Medical Council for that purpose;

       (b) who possesses medical knowledge, experience and skill
            which the Medical Council considers to be of international
            standing or are such as to have special value to the people
            of Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
25  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (c) who is not otherwise entitled to be registered as a medical
        practitioner under this Act but who, in the opinion of the
        Medical Council, possesses other qualifications which are
        adequate for the purposes of registration under this Act,

and who, if the person has a degree other than a Singapore degree,
complies with section 26, may be registered temporarily as a medical
practitioner in the Register of Temporarily Registered Medical
Practitioners for so long as the person continues to engage himself
exclusively in teaching, research or postgraduate study in medicine
under such approved training scheme or in such medical capacity as
the Medical Council may specify.

 (2) Any registration under subsection (1) is for a period not
exceeding 2 years which may be renewed, at the discretion of the
Medical Council, for a further period or periods each not exceeding
12 months.

 (3) A person may be registered under subsection (1) subject to such
conditions and restrictions as the Medical Council may impose.

Provisional registration

 24.—(1) This section has effect for enabling persons desirous of
obtaining certificates of experience to be employed as mentioned in
section 25(1).

 (2) Any person who is qualified to be registered under this Act may,
for the purpose of satisfying any requirement as to experience, be
provisionally registered for such duration and subject to such
conditions or restrictions as the Medical Council may specify, if he
produces evidence satisfactory to the Registrar that he has been
selected to be engaged in such employment as is mentioned in
section 25(1).

 (2A) The Medical Council may cancel the provisional registration
of a medical practitioner if —

       (a) he fails to comply with any of the conditions or restrictions
            of his provisional registration; or

       (b) the Medical Council is of the opinion, having regard to the
            report of one or more registered medical practitioners

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            26

            supervising him and the reviews (if any) of the registered
            medical practitioners or healthcare professionals working
            with him, that he is unfit or otherwise unable to practise
            medicine.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2B) The Medical Council must, before proceeding under
subsection (2A), notify the registered medical practitioner
concerned of its intention to cancel his provisional registration
under subsection (2A) and must give the registered medical
practitioner an opportunity to submit reasons why his registration
should not be so cancelled.

 (2C) Any person who is aggrieved by the cancellation of his
registration by the Medical Council under subsection (2A) may,
within 30 days after being notified of the cancellation, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (3) Any person who is provisionally registered is to be registered in
the Register of Provisionally Registered Medical Practitioners and on
a person becoming registered otherwise than provisionally his name
must be removed from such register.

Certificate of experience in approved hospital

 25.—(1) A certificate of experience must not be granted in respect
of any person unless that person has been engaged in employment as
a house officer or in such other similar capacity as may be approved
by the Medical Council (called in this section the approved capacity)
in one or more hospitals or institutions in Singapore approved by the
Medical Council for a prescribed period.

 (2) A person who has been employed as mentioned in
subsection (1) may apply for a certificate of experience to the
certifying authority, and if the certifying authority is satisfied —

       (a) that during the time the applicant has been so employed the
            person has been engaged for such period or minimum
            period as may be prescribed in medicine, in surgery and in
            an approved capacity; and

       (b) that the person’s service while so employed has been
            satisfactory,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
27  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

the certifying authority is to grant, in such form as may be prescribed,
a certificate of experience that it is so satisfied.

(3) In subsection (2), “certifying authority” means —

    (a) the Dean of the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine of the
         National University of Singapore;

    (b) the Dean of the Duke‑NUS Medical School Singapore
         (formerly known as the Duke‑NUS Graduate Medical
         School Singapore); or

                                                                        [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

    (c) such other person as may be prescribed.

Experience required for holders of degrees other than
Singapore degrees

 26. A person applying for registration by virtue of a degree, other
than a Singapore degree, must satisfy the Medical Council that the
person has —

       (a) a certificate of experience, or a certificate approved by the
            Medical Council as being equivalent to a certificate of
            experience and granted by a hospital or an institution
            outside Singapore that is recognised by the Medical
            Council for the purpose of this paragraph; or

       (b) rendered satisfactory service in any appointment which, in
            the opinion of the Medical Council, confers experience of
            the practice of medicine not less extensive than that
            required for a certificate of experience.

Evidence of qualification and entry of additional qualifications

 27.—(1) No qualification is to be entered on a register unless the
Registrar is satisfied by such evidence as the Registrar may consider
proper that the person claiming the qualification is entitled to it.

 (2) Every person registered under this Act, who obtains any
qualification in addition to the qualification by virtue of which that
person has been registered, may apply to the Medical Council to have
that additional qualification inserted in a register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            28

 (3) The Medical Council has power to decide what additional
qualifications may be entered in a register.

Application for registration

 28.—(1) Every application for registration under this Act must be
made to the Medical Council in such manner or form and must be
accompanied by such documents and particulars as the Medical
Council may require.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be accompanied by
the prescribed fee.

 (3) The Medical Council may refuse to register any applicant who,
in the opinion of the Medical Council —

       (a) is not qualified to be registered;

       (b) is not of good reputation and character;

       (c) is unfit to practise medicine —

               (i) because the applicant’s ability to practise has been
                   impaired by reason of the applicant’s physical or
                   mental condition; or

              (ii) for any other reason;

       (d) has without reasonable cause failed to submit to a medical
            examination when required to do so under
            section 29(4)(b);

       (e) has had the applicant’s name removed from a register of
            medical practitioners in any country whose degrees or
            licences in medicine are recognised as a qualification
            entitling the holder of the degree or licence to be registered
            under this Act; or

        (f) has failed to comply with any condition or restriction of
            any previous registration as may have been imposed on the
            applicant by the Medical Council.

 (4) Where the Medical Council refuses to register an applicant, the
Medical Council must by written notice inform the applicant of such
refusal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
29  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Medical
Council under subsection (3) may, within one month of the notice
given under subsection (4), appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

 (6) The Registrar must enter the name of a registered medical
practitioner in the appropriate register.

 (7) Every registered medical practitioner is, on payment of the
prescribed fee, entitled to receive a certificate of registration.

Credentials Committee

 29.—(1) The Medical Council is to appoint a committee called the
Credentials Committee, consisting of at least 3 members of the
Medical Council, to —

       (a) scrutinise all applications for registration other than
            applications for registration as specialists and family
            physicians; and

       (b) undertake such other duties as the Medical Council thinks
            fit to assign to the Credentials Committee.

 (2) The term of office of the members of the Credentials Committee
and the quorum of the Committee are to be determined by the
Medical Council.

 (3) The Credentials Committee may interview the applicants and
make such enquiries or do anything which the Committee may think
necessary or expedient for discharging its functions under this Act.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Credentials Committee
may, by written notice, require an applicant —

       (a) to furnish such further information, documents or
            particulars as the Credentials Committee may require
            within the time specified in the notice; or

       (b) to submit to a medical examination to be conducted by a
            registered medical practitioner nominated or approved by
            the Medical Council within such time as may be specified
            in the notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            30

 (5) The registered medical practitioner who conducts the
examination mentioned in subsection (4)(b) must, within 14 days
after the examination or such longer time as the Credentials
Committee may allow, submit his report on the applicant’s fitness
to practise medicine to the Credentials Committee.

 (6) Any applicant who fails to comply with a requirement under
subsection (4) within the time stated in the notice is deemed to have
withdrawn his application.

Publication of list of registered medical practitioners with
practising certificates

 30. The Registrar must publish on the Medical Council’s Internet
website, or on such other medium which is accessible to members of
the public as the Minister may require, a list of the names, practice
addresses, qualifications and dates of qualifications and registration
of all registered medical practitioners who have in force a practising
certificate.

Alterations in registers

 31. The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in a register any alteration which may come to his
            knowledge in the name or address of any person registered
            under this Act;

       (b) insert in a register such alterations in the qualifications,
            additional qualifications and other particulars in the
            register as are required to be altered under this Act;

       (c) correct any error in any entry in a register;

       (d) remove from a register the name of any person whose
            name is ordered to be removed under this Act;

       (e) remove from a register the name of any person who is
            deceased;

        (f) remove from a register the name of any person who has not
            renewed his practising certificate for a continuous period
            of at least 2 years, and who cannot be contacted or sent any
            document using his particulars in the register; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
31  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (g) remove from a register the name of any person who has
         requested and shown sufficient reason for his name to be
         removed from that register, unless an inquiry has or
         proceedings have commenced under Part 7 against that
         person.

Power of Medical Council to remove names from registers

 32.—(1) Despite the provisions of this Act, the Medical Council
may, upon such evidence as it may require, order the removal from
the appropriate register the name of a registered medical practitioner
under any of the following circumstances:

       (a) if he has been registered with conditional registration and
            the conditional registration has been cancelled by the
            Medical Council under section 21(6);

       (b) if he has been temporarily registered under section 23 and
            has contravened or failed to comply with any condition or
            restriction imposed by the Medical Council;

       (c) if he has been registered in the Register of Specialists
            and —

               (i) his name has been removed from the Register of
                   Medical Practitioners; or

              (ii) he has contravened or failed to comply with any
                   condition or restriction imposed by the Medical
                   Council under section 22;

      (ca) if he has been registered in the Register of Family
            Physicians and —

               (i) his name has been removed from the Register of
                   Medical Practitioners; or

              (ii) he has contravened or failed to comply with any
                   condition or restriction imposed by the Medical
                   Council under section 22A;

      (cb) if his provisional registration has been cancelled by the
            Medical Council under section 24(2A);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            32

(d) if he has obtained registration fraudulently or by incorrect
     statement;

          (e) if his degree for registration under this Act has been
              withdrawn or cancelled by the authority through which it
              was acquired or by which it was awarded;

          (f) if he has had his registration in any other country
              withdrawn, suspended or cancelled by the authority
              which registered him;

(g) if he has failed to serve the Government or such other body
     or organisation as directed by the Government for such
     period as may be specified in any undertaking given by
     him to the Government.

 (2) The Medical Council must, before exercising its powers under
subsection (1), notify the registered medical practitioner concerned of
its intention to take such action and must give the registered medical
practitioner an opportunity to submit reasons why his name should
not be removed.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by any order of the Medical
Council under subsection (1) may, within 30 days of being notified of
the order, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Restoration of names removed under section 31 or 32

 33.—(1) Where the name of a person has been removed from a
register under section 31(f) or 32(1)(a), (b), (c), (ca), (cb) or (g), the
Medical Council may, upon application by the person, if it thinks fit
direct —

       (a) that the person’s name be restored to the register; or

       (b) that the person be registered as a medical practitioner with
            conditional registration in Part II of the Register of Medical
            Practitioners, and section 21(4) and (6) to (9) applies
            accordingly.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Medical Council more than once in any period of 6 months by or on
behalf of the medical practitioner.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
33  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must not be made to the
Medical Council by or on behalf of the medical practitioner unless the
medical practitioner has complied with all the terms of the order made
against the medical practitioner under section 32(1), where
applicable.

                                    PART 5

              SPECIALISTS ACCREDITATION BOARD

Establishment of Specialists Accreditation Board

 34.—(1) There is to be a board called the Specialists Accreditation
Board (called in this Part the Board) consisting of at least 8 registered
medical practitioners to be appointed by the Minister.

 (2) The chairman of the Board is to be appointed by the Minister
from among its members.

 (3) The chairman and members of the Board are appointed for a
term not exceeding 3 years but may be re‑appointed and may at any
time be removed from office by the Minister.

 (4) If any member of the Board dies, resigns or is removed from
office, the Minister may fill the vacancy by the appointment of a
registered medical practitioner and every person so appointed holds
office for the remainder of the term for which the person’s
predecessor was appointed.

 (5) The powers of the Board are not affected by any vacancy in its
membership.

 (6) At any meeting of the Board, 3 members form a quorum.

 (7) At any meeting of the Board, the chairman presides and in his
absence the members present must elect one of their members to
preside at the meeting.

 (8) If on any question to be determined by the Board there is an
equality of votes, the chairman or the member presiding at the
meeting has a casting vote.

 (9) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may determine
its own procedure.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            34

 (10) The Board may appoint one or more committees consisting of
such members as it thinks fit to assist the Board in carrying out its
functions under this Act.

Functions of Specialists Accreditation Board

 35.—(1) The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to determine the qualifications, experience and other
            conditions for registration as specialists under this Act;

       (b) to define specialties in medicine for the purposes of
            maintaining and keeping the Register of Specialists;

       (c) to determine the training programmes to be recognised for
            persons who intend to qualify for registration as specialists
            under this Act;

       (d) to grant to persons who have the qualifications or
            experience and who meet the conditions for registration
            as specialists under this Act certificates to that effect;

       (e) to recommend to the Medical Council programmes for the
            continuing medical education of persons who are
            registered as specialists under this Act; and

        (f) to advise the Medical Council on matters affecting or
            connected with the registration of specialists under this
            Act.

 (1A) The Board may further subdivide the specialties in medicine
into further classes of sub‑specialties and this section applies, with
the necessary modifications, to such sub‑specialties.

 (1B) A reference in this Act to a specialty is to be construed as
including a reference to a sub‑specialty.

 (2) Any person who desires to have a certificate from the Board to
certify that the person has the qualifications or experience and who
meets the conditions for registration as specialists under this Act may
apply to the Board.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Board to grant
the certificate may, within one month of the notice of the refusal,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
35  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    PART 5A

    FAMILY PHYSICIANS ACCREDITATION BOARD

Establishment of Family Physicians Accreditation Board

 35A.—(1) There is to be a board called the Family Physicians
Accreditation Board (called in this Part the Board) consisting of at
least 8 registered medical practitioners to be appointed by the
Minister.

 (2) The chairman of the Board is to be appointed by the Minister
from among its members.

 (3) The chairman and members of the Board are appointed for a
term not exceeding 3 years but may be re‑appointed and may at any
time be removed from office by the Minister.

 (4) If any member of the Board dies, resigns or is removed from
office, the Minister may fill the vacancy by the appointment of a
registered medical practitioner and every person so appointed holds
office for the remainder of the term for which the person’s
predecessor was appointed.

 (5) The powers of the Board are not affected by any vacancy in its
membership.

(6) At any meeting of the Board, 4 members form a quorum.

 (7) At any meeting of the Board, the chairman presides and, in his
absence, the members present must elect one of their members to
preside at the meeting.

 (8) If on any question to be determined by the Board there is an
equality of votes, the chairman or the member presiding at the
meeting has a casting vote.

 (9) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may determine
its own procedure.

 (10) The Board may appoint one or more committees consisting of
such members as it thinks fit to assist the Board in carrying out its
functions under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            36

Functions of Family Physicians Accreditation Board

35B.—(1) The functions of the Board are —

(a) to determine the qualifications, experience and other
     conditions for registration as a family physician under
     this Act;

(b) to define the scope of family medicine for the purposes of
     maintaining and keeping the Register of Family
     Physicians;

          (c) to determine the training programmes to be recognised for
              persons who intend to qualify for registration as family
              physicians under this Act;

(d) to grant to persons who have the qualifications or
     experience and who meet the conditions for registration
     as family physicians under this Act certificates to that
     effect;

          (e) to recommend to the Medical Council programmes for the
              continuing medical education of persons who are
              registered as family physicians under this Act; and

          (f) to advise the Medical Council on matters affecting or
              connected with the registration of family physicians under
              this Act.

 (2) Any person who desires to have a certificate from the Board to
certify that the person has the qualifications or experience and meets
the conditions for registration as a family physician under this Act
may apply to the Board.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by the refusal of the Board to grant
the certificate may, within one month of the notice of refusal, appeal
to the Minister whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
37  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

                         PART 6

    PRACTISING CERTIFICATES

Practising certificates

 36.—(1) Any registered medical practitioner who desires to obtain
a practising certificate must make an application to the Medical
Council in such form and manner as the Medical Council may
require.

 (2) Every application for a practising certificate must be
accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (3) A practising certificate is to be granted for a period not
exceeding 2 years from the date of issue of the practising certificate.

 (4) Any application for renewal of a practising certificate must be
made not later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate in such form as the Medical Council may require.

 (5) Any registered medical practitioner who applies for a practising
certificate later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate is liable to pay to the Medical Council such late application
fee as may be prescribed by the Medical Council.

(6) The Medical Council may —

    (a) refuse to grant a practising certificate to a registered
         medical practitioner; or

    (b) refuse to renew the practising certificate of the registered
         medical practitioner,

if the registered medical practitioner fails to comply with any
condition that is prescribed by the Medical Council with the approval
of the Minister for the purposes of this section.

 (7) Without limiting subsection (6) and section 70(2)(b), the
Medical Council may, with the approval of the Minister, prescribe
conditions that require a registered medical practitioner applying for
the grant or renewal of his practising certificate to —

    (a) submit such information or declaration (including statutory
         declaration) as the Medical Council may require;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            38

(b) comply with such continuing medical education
     requirements as may be prescribed; and

          (c) take out and maintain, or be covered by, adequate and
              appropriate insurance or other forms of protection with
              such insurers or other organisations as may be approved by
              the Medical Council for indemnity against loss arising
              from claims in respect of civil liability incurred by that
              practitioner in the course of his medical practice, and
              which meets such minimum terms and conditions as the
              Medical Council may determine.

Cancellation of practising certificates

 37.—(1) The Medical Council may cancel any practising certificate
issued to a registered medical practitioner if the Medical Council is
satisfied that —

       (a) the practising certificate has been obtained by the
            registered medical practitioner by fraud, or the registered
            medical practitioner has, in connection with the application
            for the practising certificate, made a statement or provided
            any information or document that is false, misleading or
            inaccurate in a material particular; or

       (b) the registered medical practitioner fails, or has failed, to
            comply with any requirement prescribed in connection
            with the practising certificate (including any requirement
            that every registered medical practitioner must comply
            with in order to continue holding the practising certificate).

 (2) Where the Medical Council decides under subsection (1) to
cancel a practising certificate, the Medical Council must serve on the
registered medical practitioner a notice of the decision.

 (3) A decision by the Medical Council under subsection (1) takes
effect on the date the notice under subsection (2) is served on the
registered medical practitioner concerned, or on a later date specified
in the notice.

 (4) A registered medical practitioner who is aggrieved by the
cancellation of his practising certificate under subsection (1) may,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
39  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

within 30 days after receiving the notice mentioned in subsection (2),
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (5) An appeal against a decision to cancel a registered medical
practitioner’s practising certificate does not affect the operation of the
decision appealed against or prevent the taking of action to
implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by the
Minister, the decision appealed against must be complied with until
the determination of the appeal.

 (6) Where a registered medical practitioner has had his name
removed from any register (other than the Register of Specialists or
the Register of Family Physicians) under this Act or has had his
registration suspended under this Act, any practising certificate
issued to him is deemed cancelled.

 (7) The cancellation or deemed cancellation of a practising
certificate under this section does not affect —

    (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
         the registered medical practitioner; or

    (b) the enforcement by the registered medical practitioner of
         any right or claim against any person.

 (8) A registered medical practitioner whose practising certificate is
cancelled or deemed cancelled under this section must, as soon as
practicable after receiving notice of the cancellation, removal from a
register or suspension of registration (as the case may be), surrender
his practising certificate to the Medical Council.

 (9) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the operation of
Part 7.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                                PART 7
    DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND INQUIRIES

                                                                       [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            40

          Division 1 — Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

Voluntary removal, suspension, etc.

 38.—(1) A registered medical practitioner may request the Medical
Council to take one or more of the actions in subsection (2) if the
registered medical practitioner believes that —

(a) his fitness to practise medicine is impaired by reason of his
     physical or mental condition; or

(b) the quality of the professional services provided by him
     does not meet the standard which is reasonable to expect of
     a medical practitioner.

 (2) Upon receiving a request under subsection (1), the Medical
Council may, with the agreement of the registered medical
practitioner, do one or more of the following:

(a) remove the registered medical practitioner’s name from the
     appropriate register;

(b) suspend the registration of the registered medical
     practitioner in the appropriate register for a period not
     exceeding 3 years;

          (c) where the registered medical practitioner is a fully
              registered medical practitioner in Part I of the Register
              of Medical Practitioners — remove the registered medical
              practitioner’s name from Part I of that Register and register
              him instead as a medical practitioner with conditional
              registration in Part II of that Register, and section 21(4),
              (6), (7), (8) and (9) applies accordingly;

(d) where the registered medical practitioner is registered in
     any register other than Part I of the Register of Medical
     Practitioners — impose additional appropriate conditions
     or restrictions on his registration or vary the conditions or
     restrictions already imposed under section 21, 23 or 24;

          (e) suspend or cancel the registered medical practitioner’s
              practising certificate.

 (3) However, the Medical Council must not take any action under
subsection (2) in relation to a registered medical practitioner if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
41  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (a) the Medical Council believes that there is evidence of any
         matter mentioned in section 40(3)(a) or (4)(a), (b) or (c); or

    (b) an inquiry under Division 2 has started and is pending
         against the registered medical practitioner.

 (4) Subsections (2) and (3) also apply where the Medical Council
has given a notification to the registered medical practitioner under
section 40(6)(b), except that if the Medical Council and the registered
medical practitioner are unable to agree on the course of action to be
taken under subsection (2)(a) to (e), the Medical Council must
proceed to refer the matter to the chairman of the Complaints Panel
under section 40(6)(a).

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

         Division 2 — Inquiries into complaints against and
          information about registered medical practitioners

Appointment of Complaints Panel

 39.—(1) For the purpose of enabling Inquiry Committees,
Complaints Committees, Review Committees, Disciplinary
Tribunals and Interim Orders Committees to be constituted in
accordance with this Part, the Medical Council must appoint a
panel (called in this Act the Complaints Panel) consisting of —

       (a) at least 10 members of the Medical Council;

       (b) at least 10 registered medical practitioners each of whom is
            of at least 8 years’ standing and is not a member of the
            Medical Council; and

       (c) at least 6 other persons nominated by the Minister, each of
            whom is either —

               (i) a legal professional; or

              (ii) a lay person.

 (2) The term of office of a member of the Complaints Panel
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) expires at the end of the member’s
term of office as a member of the Medical Council.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            42

 (3) A member of the Complaints Panel mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (c)(i) or (ii) is appointed for a term of 3 years
and is eligible for re-appointment.

 (4) The Medical Council may at any time remove from office any
member of the Complaints Panel or fill any vacancy in its
membership.

 (5) The Medical Council must appoint, from among the members of
the Complaints Panel who are members of the Medical Council, the
chairman and the deputy chairman of the Complaints Panel.

 (6) The chairman and deputy chairman appointed under
subsection (5) must be registered medical practitioners.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Complaints against registered medical practitioners, etc.

 40.—(1) A person (called in this Part the complainant) may make a
complaint against, or provide information about, any registered
medical practitioner to the Medical Council on any matter mentioned
in subsection (3) or (4).

 (2) Every complaint against, or information about, any registered
medical practitioner mentioned in subsection (1) must —

       (a) be in writing;

       (b) be supported by a statutory declaration unless the
            complaint or information is made or provided by a
            public officer or the Medical Council; and

       (c) be accompanied by every relevant document and
            information that is in the possession of the complainant.

 (3) The complaint mentioned in subsection (1) is a complaint —

       (a) relating to —

               (i) the conduct of a registered medical practitioner in his
                   professional capacity; or

              (ii) a registered medical practitioner’s improper act or
                   conduct which brings disrepute to his profession; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
43  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (b) that the professional services provided by a registered
         medical practitioner are not of the quality that is reasonable
         to expect of him.

 (4) The information mentioned in subsection (1) is information
relating to —

    (a) the conviction (whether in Singapore or elsewhere) of a
         registered medical practitioner of an offence implying a
         defect in character that makes him unfit to practise
         medicine;

    (b) the death of any patient resulting from the conduct of a
         registered medical practitioner in his professional capacity;

    (c) an adverse finding against a registered medical practitioner
        by a Coroner at an inquiry under the Coroners Act 2010*

        into the death of a patient of the registered medical

        practitioner; or

       (d) the physical or mental fitness of a registered medical
            practitioner to practise medicine.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (5) Subject to sections 41 and 42, the Medical Council must within
2 weeks after receipt of a complaint or any information under
subsection (1) that is made in accordance with subsection (2), other
than a complaint or information touching on the matters mentioned in
section 32, refer the complaint or information (as the case may be) to
the chairman of the Complaints Panel for the appointment of an
Inquiry Committee.

 (6) Subject to sections 41 and 42, the Medical Council may, on its
own motion —

    (a) if the Medical Council believes that there is evidence of
         any matter mentioned in subsection (3) or (4) — make a
         complaint or refer any information about the registered
         medical practitioner to the chairman of the Complaints
         Panel for the appointment of a Complaints Committee; or

    (b) if the Medical Council believes that there is evidence of
         any matter mentioned in subsection (3)(b) or (4)(d) —
         instead of proceeding under paragraph (a), notify the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            44

          registered medical practitioner of the evidence and, with
          the written agreement of the registered medical
          practitioner, proceed under section 38(2)(a) to (e).

 (7) Despite subsections (5) and (6), the Medical Council may
immediately refer a complaint or any information directly to the
President of the Disciplinary Commission for the appointment of a
Disciplinary Tribunal where it relates to any of the following:

(a) any matter mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c);

(b) any other matter that, in the opinion of the Medical
     Council, involves a serious threat to the health and safety
     of any patient.

 (8) Where any complaint or information about a registered medical
practitioner is referred to the chairman of the Complaints Panel under
subsection (5) or (6) or to the President of the Disciplinary
Commission under subsection (7), the Medical Council must —

(a) inform the registered medical practitioner that it has done
     so; and

(b) provide the registered medical practitioner with a copy
     of —

          (i) the complaint or information; and

          (ii) any statutory declaration that has been made in
               support of the complaint or information,

unless the Medical Council is of the view that, based on the facts and
evidence before it, there are compelling reasons not to do so.

 (9) Where any information mentioned in subsection (4)(d) is
referred by the Medical Council to the chairman of the Complaints
Panel, the chairman of the Complaints Panel must within 2 weeks
after the referral —

(a) if the chairman is satisfied, based on any evidence given in
     support of the information, that a formal inquiry is
     necessary to determine the physical or mental fitness of
     the registered medical practitioner to practise medicine —
     refer the information to a Health Committee; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
45  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (b) in any other case —

    (i) proceed in accordance with Division 3 where the
        referral is made under subsection (5); or

    (ii) proceed in accordance with Division 4 where the
         referral is made under subsection (6)(a) or
         section 42(3)(b).

                                                              [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Limitation period for complaints, etc.

 41.—(1) The Medical Council must not refer a complaint or
information to the chairman of the Complaints Panel under
section 40(5) if the complaint is first made or the information is
first provided to the Medical Council after the expiration of the period
of —

       (a) 6 years after the date of the act, conduct or occurrence that
            is the subject matter of the complaint or information; or

       (b) 6 years after the earliest date on which the complainant had
            knowledge of the act, conduct or occurrence, or could with
            reasonable diligence have discovered it, if that period
            expires later than the period mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) The Medical Council must not make a complaint or refer any
information to the chairman of the Complaints Panel under
section 40(6)(a) after the expiration of the period of —

       (a) 6 years after the date of the act, conduct or occurrence that
            is the subject matter of the complaint or information; or

       (b) 6 years after the earliest date on which the Medical Council
            had knowledge of the act, conduct or occurrence, or could
            with reasonable diligence have discovered it, if that period
            expires later than the period mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (3) Where the Medical Council refers any complaint or any
information to the President of the Disciplinary Commission under
section 40(7) for the appointment of a Disciplinary Tribunal after the
expiration of the period of —

       (a) 6 years after the date of the act, conduct or occurrence that
            is the subject matter of the complaint or information; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            46

(b) 6 years after the earliest date on which the Council had
     knowledge of the act, conduct or occurrence, or could with
     reasonable diligence have discovered it, if that period
     expires later than the period mentioned in paragraph (a),

the President of the Disciplinary Commission must not appoint a
Disciplinary Tribunal for the matter unless he is of the opinion that it
is in the public interest to do so.

 (4) In this section, “knowledge” includes the knowledge that a
person may reasonably have been expected to acquire —

(a) from facts observable or ascertainable by the person; or

(b) from facts ascertainable by the person with the help of
     appropriate expert advice which it is reasonable for the
     person to seek.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Complaints made, etc., after expiration of limitation period

 42.—(1) Where any complaint or information is made or provided
to the Medical Council under section 40(1) after the expiration of the
period mentioned in section 41(1), the Medical Council must, within
2 weeks after receipt of the complaint or information, refer the
complaint or information to the President of the Disciplinary
Commission for an assessment mentioned in subsection (3)(a).

 (2) The Medical Council must as soon as possible refer any
complaint or information mentioned in section 40(6)(a) in respect of
which the period mentioned in section 41(2) has expired to the
President of the Disciplinary Commission for an assessment
mentioned in subsection (3)(a).

 (3) Where the Medical Council refers any complaint or information
to the President of the Disciplinary Commission for an assessment
under subsection (1) or (2) —

       (a) the President of the Disciplinary Commission must, within
            3 weeks after the referral, assess whether it is in the public
            interest to refer the complaint or information to the
            chairman of the Complaints Panel despite the expiration
            of the period mentioned in section 41(1) or (2); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
47  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (b) where the President of the Disciplinary Commission
         notifies the Medical Council that he is of the opinion
         that it is in the public interest to refer the complaint or
         information to the chairman of the Complaints Panel, the
         Medical Council must, despite section 41(1) or (2) (as the
         case may be) and within 2 weeks after receipt of the notice,
         refer the complaint or information or make the complaint
         (as the case may be) to the chairman of the Complaints
         Panel.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                    Division 3 — Inquiry Committees

Inquiry by Inquiry Committee

 43.—(1) Where any complaint or information is referred to the
chairman of the Complaints Panel under section 40(5) (other than
information mentioned in section 40(4)(d) where section 40(9)(a) or
(b)(ii) applies), the chairman of the Complaints Panel must, within
2 weeks after the referral —

       (a) appoint an Inquiry Committee consisting of —

               (i) a chairman, being a member of the Complaints Panel
                   who is a registered medical practitioner; and

              (ii) one other member of the Complaints Panel who is a
                   registered medical practitioner,

       (a) to inquire into the complaint or information; and

       (b) refer the complaint or information to the Inquiry
            Committee.

 (2) An Inquiry Committee may, in the course of an inquiry under
subsection (1), require the complainant, registered medical
practitioner concerned or any other person to answer any question
or provide any information or document that the Inquiry Committee
considers relevant for the purpose of the inquiry.

 (3) An Inquiry Committee must complete its inquiry under
subsection (1) within 3 weeks after the date that the complaint or
information is referred to the Inquiry Committee and —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            48

(a) if the Committee is unanimously of the opinion that the
     complaint or information is frivolous, vexatious,
     misconceived or lacking in substance — dismiss the
     complaint or information and give reasons for the
     dismissal;

(b) if the Committee is unanimously of the opinion that the
     complaint or information is not frivolous, vexatious,
     misconceived or lacking in substance and —

          (i) is unanimously of the opinion that no investigation is
              necessary — issue a letter of advice to the registered
              medical practitioner; or

          (ii) is unanimously of the opinion that an investigation is
               necessary — refer the matter to the chairman of the
               Complaints Panel to appoint a Complaints
               Committee to inquire into the matter, and direct
               one or more investigators to investigate the matter; or

          (c) in any other case — refer the matter to the chairman of the
              Complaints Panel to appoint a Complaints Committee to
              inquire into the matter, and direct one or more investigators
              to investigate the matter.

 (4) The chairman of the Complaints Panel may, upon a written
request by an Inquiry Committee, grant to the Inquiry Committee one
(but not more than one) extension of the period mentioned in
subsection (3) if the chairman is satisfied that the circumstances of the
case justify the grant of the extension, except that the extension must
not extend beyond the period of 6 weeks after the date that the
complaint or information is referred to the Inquiry Committee.

 (5) A decision of an Inquiry Committee under subsection (3) is
final.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                  Division 4 — Complaints Committees

Appointment of Complaints Committees

 44. Where any complaint or information is referred to the chairman
of the Complaints Panel under section 40(6)(a), 42(3)(b) or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
49  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

43(3)(b)(ii) or (c), the chairman of the Complaints Panel must, within
2 weeks after the referral —

    (a) appoint a Complaints Committee consisting of —

    (i) a chairman, being the deputy chairman of the
        Complaints Panel or a member of the Complaints
        Panel who is a registered medical practitioner; and

    (ii) 2 other members of the Complaints Panel, one of
         whom is a registered medical practitioner and the
         other is a legal professional or lay person,

    (a) to inquire into the complaint or information; and

    (b) refer the complaint or information to the Complaints
         Committee.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Inquiry by Complaints Committee

 45.—(1) A Complaints Committee must complete its inquiry not
later than 3 months after the date that the complaint or information is
referred to the Complaints Committee.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that it will not
be able to complete its inquiry within the period mentioned in
subsection (1), the Complaints Committee may apply in writing to the
chairman of the Complaints Panel for an extension of time to
complete its inquiry.

 (3) The chairman of the Complaints Panel may, upon a written
request by a Complaints Committee, grant to the Complaints
Committee one (but not more than one) extension of the period
mentioned in subsection (1) if the chairman is satisfied that the
circumstances of the case justify the grant of the extension, except
that the extension must not extend beyond the period of 6 months
after the date that the complaint or information is referred to the
Complaints Committee.

 (4) The Medical Council may, upon a written request by a
Complaints Committee, apply to the General Division of the High
Court in accordance with section 59U for a further extension of time

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                             50

that extends beyond the period mentioned in subsection (3) for the
Complaints Committee to complete its inquiry.

 (5) For the purposes of conducting an inquiry, a Complaints
Committee may —

(a) require the production for inspection by the Complaints
     Committee of any book, document or paper which may
     relate to or be connected with the subject matter of the
     inquiry; and

(b) require the complainant, registered medical practitioner
     concerned and any other person to give any information or
     evidence which may relate to or be connected with the
     subject matter of the inquiry (including any information in
     relation to any book, document or paper mentioned in
     paragraph (a)) —

          (i) at an attendance before the Complaints Committee;

          (ii) in writing; or

          (iii) by way of a statutory declaration or an affidavit.

 (6) Any person who, without lawful excuse, refuses or fails to
comply with any requirement of a Complaints Committee under
subsection (5)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (7) For the purposes of any inquiry, a Complaints Committee
may —

(a) where an Inquiry Committee has directed an investigation
     under section 43(3)(b)(ii) or (c) — refer to and rely on the
     report arising from that investigation; or

(b) in any other case — direct one or more investigators to
     investigate the complaint or information to which the
     inquiry relates.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
51  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

Findings of Complaints Committee

 46.—(1) After considering any investigation report mentioned in
section 51 and any report by a Performance Assessment Panel
mentioned in section 52 or Fitness Assessment Panel mentioned in
section 53, and upon due inquiry into the complaint or information, a
Complaints Committee may, if it is of the view that a formal inquiry
by a Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee is not necessary, take
one or more of the following actions:

    (a) issue a letter of advice to the registered medical
         practitioner;

    (b) issue a letter of warning to the registered medical
         practitioner;

    (c) direct the registered medical practitioner to seek and
        undergo medical or psychiatric treatment or counselling;

    (d) direct the registered medical practitioner to undertake and
         complete specified further education or training within a
         specified period;

    (e) direct the registered medical practitioner to report, at such
        times, in such manner and to such person or persons as the
        Complaints Committee may specify, on the status of —

    (i) the registered medical practitioner’s physical or
        mental condition; or

    (ii) the registered medical practitioner’s medical
         practice;

    (f) direct the registered medical practitioner to seek and take
        advice, from such person or persons as the Complaints
        Committee may specify, on or in relation to the
        management of his medical practice;

    (g) with the agreement of the registered medical practitioner,
         request the Medical Council to do one or more of the
         following:

    (i) remove the registered medical practitioner’s name
        from the appropriate register;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            52

          (ii) suspend the registration of the registered medical
               practitioner from the appropriate register for a period
               not exceeding 3 years;

          (iii) where the registered medical practitioner is a fully
                registered medical practitioner in Part I of the
                Register of Medical Practitioners — remove his
                name from Part I of that Register and register him as
                a medical practitioner with conditional registration in
                Part II of that Register, and section 21(4), (6), (7), (8)
                and (9) applies accordingly;

          (iv) where the registered medical practitioner is
               registered in any register other than Part I of the
               Register of Medical Practitioners — impose
               additional appropriate conditions or restrictions on
               his registration or vary the conditions or restrictions
               already imposed under section 21, 23 or 24, as the
               case may be;

          (v) suspend or cancel the registered medical
               practitioner’s practising certificate;

(h) dismiss the complaint or information;

          (i) give such other direction as the Complaints Committee
              thinks fit.

 (2) Where a Complaints Committee, based on the facts and
evidence before it, determines that cause of sufficient gravity for a
formal inquiry exists —

(a) where the complaint or information touches on the
     physical or mental fitness of the registered medical
     practitioner to practise medicine —

          (i) the Complaints Committee may, with the agreement
              of the registered medical practitioner, request the
              Medical Council to take one or more of the actions in
              subsection (3); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
53  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (ii) in any other case — the Complaints Committee must
         direct the Medical Council to appoint a Health
         Committee to hold a formal inquiry; or

    (b) in any other case — the Complaints Committee must
         recommend to the Medical Council that a formal inquiry be
         held by a Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (3) Upon receiving a request under subsection (2)(a)(i), the
Medical Council may do one or more of the following:

    (a) remove the name of the registered medical practitioner
         from the appropriate register;

    (b) suspend the registration of the registered medical
         practitioner in the appropriate register for such period
         not exceeding 3 years;

    (c) where the registered medical practitioner is a fully
        registered medical practitioner in Part I of the Register
        of Medical Practitioners — remove his name from Part I of
        the Register of Medical Practitioners and register him as a
        medical practitioner with conditional registration in Part II
        of that Register, and section 21(4), (6), (7), (8) and (9)
        applies accordingly;

    (d) where the registered medical practitioner is registered in
         any register other than Part I of the Register of Medical
         Practitioners — impose additional appropriate conditions
         or restrictions on his registration or vary the conditions or
         restrictions already imposed under section 21, 23 or 24, as
         the case may be.

 (4) Where the registered medical practitioner concerned fails to
comply with a direction of a Complaints Committee under
subsection (1)(c), (d), (e), (f) or (i), a Complaints Committee
(whether it is the Complaints Committee that gave the direction or
another Complaints Committee appointed in its place) may, if it
thinks fit, recommend that a formal inquiry be held by a Disciplinary
Tribunal or direct that a formal inquiry be held by a Health
Committee (as the case may be) in respect of the complaint or
information.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            54

 (5) Where a Complaints Committee makes a direction under
subsection (2)(a)(ii) or (4) that a formal inquiry be held by a
Health Committee, the Medical Council must, within one month after
receipt of the Complaint Committee’s direction, refer the complaint
or information to a Health Committee.

 (6) Where a Complaints Committee makes a recommendation
under subsection (2)(b) or (4) that a formal inquiry be held by a
Disciplinary Tribunal —

(a) the Complaints Committee must give reasons for its
     recommendation and also recommend to the Medical
     Council the charge or charges to be preferred against the
     registered medical practitioner; and

(b) the Medical Council must, within one month after receipt
     of the Complaints Committee’s recommendation,
     determine whether it is appropriate for a formal inquiry
     to be held by a Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (7) If the Medical Council determines under subsection (6)(b) that
it is not appropriate for a formal inquiry to be held by a Disciplinary
Tribunal, the Medical Council must notify the complainant and
registered medical practitioner of its decision and the reasons for such
determination, and may take one or more of the following actions:

(a) any action mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (f) or (h);

(b) with the agreement of the registered medical practitioner,
     take one or more of the actions specified in
     subsection (1)(g)(i) to (v);

          (c) give such other direction as the Medical Council thinks fit.

 (8) If the Medical Council determines under subsection (6)(b) that
it is appropriate for a formal inquiry to be held by a Disciplinary
Tribunal, the Medical Council must refer the complaint or
information to the President of the Disciplinary Commission for
the appointment of a Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (9) A decision of the Complaints Committee under
subsection (2)(a)(ii) or (b) or (4), or of the Medical Council under
subsection (6)(b), is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
55  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (10) A letter of advice mentioned in subsection (1)(a) that is to be
issued by a Complaints Committee under that subsection or the
Medical Council under subsection (7) may be issued by the chairman
of the Complaints Committee or the President of the Medical Council
(as the case may be) on such terms as the Complaints Committee or
the Medical Council (as the case may be) thinks fit.

 (11) Where, in the course of an inquiry, a Complaints Committee
receives any information touching on, or evidence of, the conduct of
the registered medical practitioner concerned which discloses an
offence under any written law, the Complaints Committee must
report it to the Medical Council.

 (12) A Complaints Committee must notify the registered medical
practitioner concerned and the complainant of its decision under
subsection (1), or under subsection (2)(a)(ii) or (4) to refer the
complaint or information to a Health Committee, and give the reason
for the Complaints Committee’s decision.

 (13) Every Complaints Committee must immediately report to the
Medical Council its findings, and every decision made under this
section.

 (14) A Complaints Committee completes its inquiry upon the
submission of the report mentioned in subsection (13).

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

             Division 5 — Mediation and withdrawal, etc.

Mediation

 47.—(1) An Inquiry Committee or a Complaints Committee may,
at any time after any complaint or information (called in this Division
the matter) is referred to it but before the completion of its inquiry
under section 43(3) or 46(14) (as the case may be), refer the matter for
mediation between the registered medical practitioner and the
complainant, before a mediator specified by the Inquiry Committee
or Complaints Committee.

 (2) Where the Inquiry Committee or Complaints Committee (as the
case may be) is informed by both the registered medical practitioner
and the complainant that they have agreed to participate in mediation

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            56

in relation to the matter (whether or not the mediation has been
referred to mediation by an Inquiry Committee or a Complaints
Committee under subsection (1)) —

(a) subject to subsection (3), the Inquiry Committee or
     Complaints Committee (as the case may be) may direct
     that the inquiry be suspended for the period or suspended
     subject to the conditions, specified by the Inquiry
     Committee or Complaints Committee, as the case may
     be; and

(b) the mediator must —

          (i) report to the Inquiry Committee or Complaints
              Committee (as the case may be) on the status of
              the mediation, at every interval specified by the
              Inquiry Committee or Complaints Committee, as the
              case may be; and

          (ii) as soon as practicable after the termination of the
               mediation, inform the Inquiry Committee or
               Complaints Committee (as the case may be) of the
               termination and outcome of the mediation.

 (3) Where a mediation is terminated and the matter is not
withdrawn, the Inquiry Committee or Complaints Committee (as
the case may be) must complete its inquiry within the balance of the
period mentioned in section 43(3) or 45(1) (as the case may be) or the
extended period granted under section 43(4), 45(3) or 59U(1) (as the
case may be) following the termination.

 (4) Despite subsection (3) and sections 43(3) and 45(1), if the
balance of the period mentioned in subsection (3) is less than 7 days,
the period during which the Inquiry Committee or Complaints
Committee (as the case may be) must complete its inquiry is extended
until and including the 7th day after the termination of the mediation.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
57  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

Withdrawal of matter

48.—(1) If a complainant withdraws the matter at any time —

    (a) before an Inquiry Committee is appointed to inquire into
         the matter;

    (b) after an Inquiry Committee is appointed but before the
         Inquiry Committee takes any action under section 43(3);

    (c) before a Complaints Committee is appointed to inquire
        into the matter; or

    (d) after a Complaints Committee is appointed but before the
         Complaints Committee takes any action under
         section 46(1) or (2),

the Medical Council may, despite the withdrawal, give directions
to —

    (e) in the case mentioned in paragraph (a) or (c) — the
        chairman of the Complaints Panel;

    (f) in the case mentioned in paragraph (b) — the Inquiry
        Committee; or

    (g) in the case mentioned in paragraph (d) — the Complaints
         Committee,

for the continuation of the inquiry as if the matter were not
withdrawn.

 (2) Where the Medical Council gives directions under
subsection (1) to the chairman of the Complaints Panel, an Inquiry
Committee or a Complaints Committee, the chairman, the Inquiry
Committee and the Complaints Committee (as the case may be) must
comply with the direction as if the matter had been a complaint made
by the Medical Council.

 (3) The Medical Council may do any of the following in relation to
a matter despite the withdrawal of the matter by the complainant:

    (a) refer the matter to the President of the Disciplinary
         Commission for the appointment of a Disciplinary
         Tribunal under section 40(7);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            58

(b) refer the matter to a Health Committee under section 46(5);

          (c) proceed under section 46(6)(b) and section 46(7) or (8).

 (4) If a complainant withdraws the matter before the conclusion of
the inquiry into the matter by a Disciplinary Tribunal or a Health
Committee, the Medical Council may inform the Disciplinary
Tribunal or Health Committee (as the case may be) to continue the
inquiry despite the withdrawal, and all the future proceedings arising
or following from the direction are to be taken as if the matter had
been a complaint made by the Medical Council.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Inquiry Committee or Complaints Committee may make costs
orders

 49.—(1) Where an Inquiry Committee makes a decision under
section 43(3)(a) or a Complaints Committee is of the opinion that the
matter is frivolous, vexatious, misconceived or lacking in substance
and dismisses the matter under section 46(1)(h), the Inquiry
Committee or Complaints Committee (as the case may be) may,
after hearing the complainant (if the complainant desires to be
heard) —

       (a) order that the costs of the matter be paid by the
            complainant; and

       (b) in such order, specify the amount of those costs or direct
            that the amount be taxed by the Registrar of the Supreme
            Court.

 (2) An Inquiry Committee or a Complaints Committee in
exercising its discretion as to costs may take into account the
parties’ conduct in relation to any attempt at resolving the matter by
mediation or any other means of dispute resolution.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
any costs mentioned in subsection (1) and any order for costs made by
the General Division of the High Court is enforceable as if it were
ordered in connection with a civil action in the General Division of
the High Court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
59  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (4) Any person who is aggrieved by an order under subsection (1)
may, within 14 days after being notified of the order, appeal to the
General Division of the High Court.

 (5) An appeal under subsection (4) may be made by originating
application.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/07/2022]

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

              Division 6 — Investigations and assessments

Conduct of investigation by investigator

 50.—(1) Where —

       (a) an Inquiry Committee, a Complaints Committee or a
            Disciplinary Tribunal (called in this section the instructing
            committee) directs an investigation under
            section 43(3)(b)(ii) or (c), 45(7)(b) or 59A(9), as the
            case may be; and

       (b) the instructing committee is of the opinion that the
            registered medical practitioner should be called upon to
            answer any allegation made against him,

the instructing committee must give the registered medical
practitioner written notice of the investigation and invite the
registered medical practitioner to give to the investigator, within
the period (not exceeding 21 days after the date of the notice), any
written explanation he may wish to offer, containing all relevant
information and accompanied by every relevant document that is in
the possession of the registered medical practitioner.

 (2) The registered medical practitioner may, at any time before the
expiration of the period specified for the submission of the written
explanation, make not more than one application to the instructing
committee for an extension of the period, and the extension must not
exceed 21 days.

 (3) In the course of an investigation mentioned in subsection (1), a
relevant Complaints Committee may authorise in writing the
investigator to do one or both of the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            60

(a) in the case of a complaint mentioned in section 40(3)(b) —
     obtain the consent of the registered medical practitioner to
     undergo a performance assessment in accordance with
     section 52;

(b) in the case of any information mentioned in
     section 40(4)(d) — obtain the consent of the registered
     medical practitioner to undergo a fitness assessment in
     accordance with section 53.

 (4) Where an investigator requests the consent of the registered
medical practitioner under subsection (3), the registered medical
practitioner must respond within such time as the investigator may
specify in the request.

(5) If the registered medical practitioner —

(a) declines to undergo a performance assessment or fitness
     assessment requested under subsection (3);

(b) having consented to undergo a performance assessment or
     fitness assessment, subsequently fails to participate in the
     assessment or refuses to cooperate with any assessor
     carrying out the assessment; or

          (c) does not respond to the investigator’s request within the
              time mentioned in subsection (4),

the investigator must make a report to the relevant Complaints
Committee under section 51, and the relevant Complaints Committee
may proceed with the inquiry and take such action as it thinks fit
under section 46.

 (6) Where, in the course of an investigation mentioned in
subsection (1), an investigator receives any information that relates
to the registered medical practitioner who is the subject of the
investigation and that is not related to the subject matter of the
investigation but may give rise to proceedings under this Part, the
investigator must make a report to the Medical Council.

 (7) Where, in the course of an investigation mentioned in
subsection (1), an investigator receives any information relating to
another registered medical practitioner which may give rise to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
61                   Medical Registration Act 1997           2020 Ed.

proceedings under this Part, the investigator must make a report to the
Medical Council.

 (8) In this section and sections 52 and 53, “relevant Complaints
Committee” means —

    (a) the Complaints Committee appointed to inquire into any
         complaint or information that is the subject of the
         investigation; or

    (b) the Complaints Committee which has directed the
         investigation under section 45(7)(b),

as the case may be.

                     [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Investigation report and information obtained in course of
investigation or inquiry

 51.—(1) Upon completing an investigation into any complaint or
information, the investigator must submit a report on the findings of
the investigation to —

       (a) in the case of an investigation directed by an Inquiry
            Committee under section 43(3)(b)(ii) or (c) — the
            Complaints Committee that is appointed to inquire into
            the complaint or information, or if no Complaints
            Committee has been appointed, the chairman of the
            Complaints Panel;

       (b) in the case of an investigation directed by a Complaints
            Committee under section 45(7)(b) — the Complaints
            Committee; or

       (c) in the case of an investigation directed by a Disciplinary
            Tribunal under section 59A(9) — the Disciplinary
            Tribunal.

 (2) The report of the investigator (called in this Part an investigation
report) must contain any written explanation given by the registered
medical practitioner under section 50(1).

 (3) A person must not disclose the contents of any investigation
report or any information contained in any document which was
obtained in the course of any investigation or inquiry commenced

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            62

under this Part to any other person, including the registered medical
practitioner concerned, except —

(a) where the chairman of the Complaints Panel, Complaints
     Committee or Disciplinary Tribunal (as the case may be) to
     which the investigation report is submitted considers that
     there are compelling reasons to do so; or

(b) where such disclosure is required for the purpose of
     administering or enforcing this Act or the Infectious
     Diseases Act 1976*.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                                      [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

Performance assessment

 52.—(1) If a registered medical practitioner consents to undergo a
performance assessment under section 50(3)(a), the quality of
professional services provided by the registered medical
practitioner must be assessed by a Performance Assessment Panel
appointed by the relevant Complaints Committee and comprising one
or more suitably qualified persons determined by the relevant
Complaints Committee.

 (2) A Performance Assessment Panel is to carry out the
performance assessment in accordance with —

       (a) the provisions of this Division;

       (b) any practice and procedure determined by the Medical
            Council for performance assessments; and

       (c) any instructions issued by the relevant Complaints
            Committee for the performance assessment.

 (3) The registered medical practitioner under assessment must, if
required by a Performance Assessment Panel —

       (a) within such time and at such place as the Panel may
            reasonably require, produce to the Panel or give the Panel
            access to any record or document —

               (i) specified by the Panel or of a class or description so
                   specified;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
63  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (ii) which is in the possession or under the control of the
         registered medical practitioner; and

    (iii) which the Panel reasonably believes is or may be
          relevant to the performance assessment;

    (b) give the Panel such explanation or further particulars in
         respect of anything produced in compliance with a
         requirement under paragraph (a) as the Panel may
         specify; and

    (c) give the Panel all assistance in connection with the
        performance assessment which the registered medical
        practitioner is reasonably able to give.

 (4) Where any information or matter relevant to a performance
assessment is recorded otherwise than in a legible form, the
Performance Assessment Panel may require the registered medical
practitioner to produce to the Panel a reproduction of such
information or matter, or the relevant part of the information or
matter, in a legible form.

 (5) A Performance Assessment Panel may inspect, examine or
make copies of or take any abstract of or extract from any record or
document produced under subsection (3) or (4).

 (6) A Performance Assessment Panel must submit a report of its
assessment to the relevant Complaints Committee and, with the
approval of the relevant Complaints Committee, the registered
medical practitioner.

 (7) The relevant Complaints Committee, or the investigator with
the approval of the relevant Complaints Committee, may discuss with
the registered medical practitioner under assessment the report
mentioned in subsection (6) and, in the case of an adverse finding
in the report, the possible ways of dealing with that finding.

 (8) If, at any time before the report mentioned in subsection (6) is
submitted to the relevant Complaints Committee —

    (a) the relevant Complaints Committee instructs the
         discontinuation of the performance assessment; or

    (b) the relevant Complaints Committee completes its inquiry,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            64

the performance assessment is discontinued from the date
paragraph (a) or (b) occurs, whichever is earlier.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Fitness assessment

 53.—(1) If a registered medical practitioner consents to undergo a
fitness assessment under section 50(3)(b), the registered medical
practitioner’s fitness to practise medicine by reason of his physical or
mental condition must be assessed by a Fitness Assessment Panel
appointed by the relevant Complaints Committee and comprising one
or more suitably qualified persons determined by the relevant
Complaints Committee.

 (2) A Fitness Assessment Panel must carry out the fitness
assessment in accordance with —

       (a) the provisions of this Division;

       (b) any practice and procedure determined by the Medical
            Council for fitness assessments; and

       (c) any instructions issued by the relevant Complaints
            Committee for the fitness assessment.

 (3) A Fitness Assessment Panel must submit a report of its
assessment to the relevant Complaints Committee and, with the
approval of the relevant Complaints Committee, provide a copy of
the report to the registered medical practitioner.

 (4) The relevant Complaints Committee, or the investigator with
the approval of the relevant Complaints Committee, may discuss with
the registered medical practitioner under assessment the report
mentioned in subsection (3) and, in the case of an adverse finding
in the report, the possible ways of dealing with that finding.

 (5) If, at any time before the report mentioned in subsection (3) is
submitted to the relevant Complaints Committee —

       (a) the relevant Complaints Committee instructs the
            discontinuation of the fitness assessment; or

       (b) the relevant Complaints Committee completes its inquiry,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
65  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

the fitness assessment is discontinued from the date paragraph (a) or
(b) occurs, whichever is earlier.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

              Division 7 — Review by Review Committee

Request for review

 54.—(1) A registered medical practitioner who is aggrieved by any
direction or decision of a Complaints Committee under section 46(1)
may, within 14 days after being notified under section 46(12), request
for a review by a Review Committee whose decision is final.

 (2) If the complainant is dissatisfied with any direction or decision
of a Complaints Committee under section 46(1), he may, within
14 days after being notified under section 46(12), request for a review
by a Review Committee whose decision is final.

 (3) Where a complaint is made or any matter or information is
referred by the Medical Council under section 40(6)(a) and the
Medical Council is dissatisfied with any direction or decision of a
Complaints Committee under section 46(1), the Medical Council
may within 14 days after receipt of the report under section 46(13),
request for a review by a Review Committee whose decision is final.

 (4) A request for a review under this section must be made to the
chairman of the Complaints Panel.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Appointment of Review Committee

 55.—(1) The chairman of the Complaints Panel must, within 3
weeks after receipt of a request for review under section 54, appoint
from among the members of the Complaints Panel, a Review
Committee consisting of —

       (a) one registered medical practitioner of at least 10 years’
            standing;

       (b) one legal professional; and

       (c) one lay person.

 (2) The chairman of a Review Committee is a member of that
Committee so appointed by the chairman of the Complaints Panel.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            66

(3) A member of —

(a) an Inquiry Committee; or

(b) a Complaints Committee,

is disqualified from acting as a member of a Review Committee
reviewing and determining the same matter as the Inquiry Committee
or Complaints Committee.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Review by Review Committee

 56.—(1) A Review Committee must, within 3 months after the date
of its appointment, complete its review and report its determination to
the Medical Council.

 (2) The chairman of the Complaints Panel may, upon a written
request by a Review Committee, grant to the Review Committee one
(but not more than one) extension of the period mentioned in
subsection (1) if the chairman is satisfied that the circumstances of the
case justify the grant of the extension, except that the extension must
not extend beyond the period of 6 months after the date of the
appointment of the Review Committee.

 (3) The Medical Council may, upon a written request by a Review
Committee, apply to the General Division of the High Court in
accordance with section 59U for a further extension of time that
extends beyond the period mentioned in subsection (2) for the
Review Committee to report its determination to the Medical
Council.

 (4) A Review Committee may, at the conclusion of its review, only
make one or both of the following orders:

       (a) an order that the Complaints Committee has complied with
            all the procedural requirements under this Act and any
            regulations governing an inquiry by a Complaints
            Committee;

       (b) an order directing the Complaints Committee to conduct a
            further inquiry into or rehear the complaint or matter,
            where the Review Committee is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
67  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (i) the Complaints Committee has not complied with
        any of those requirements; or

    (ii) any new evidence submitted to the Review
         Committee is material to the complaint or matter.

 (5) Where a Review Committee makes an order under
subsection (4)(b), the Review Committee must give a further
direction to the Complaints Committee to complete the further
inquiry or rehearing within such period (not exceeding 3 months after
the date of the order) as may be specified by the Review Committee.

 (6) Section 45(3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) applies to, or in relation to, a
Complaints Committee that is given an order under subsection (4)(b)
to conduct a further inquiry into or rehear the complaint or matter as if
the Complaints Committee were conducting a new inquiry, and —

    (a) for the purposes of section 45(3), the date of the Review
         Committee’s order under subsection (4)(b) is the date that
         the complaint or information is referred to the Complaints
         Committee; and

    (b) for the purposes of section 45(7), the Complaints
         Committee may direct an investigation even if a
         previous investigation was directed by an Inquiry
         Committee under section 43(3)(b)(ii) or (c) prior to the
         order under subsection (4)(b).

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

              Division 8 — Disciplinary Commission and
                           Disciplinary Tribunals

Disciplinary Commission

 57.—(1) The Minister may appoint a Disciplinary Commission
consisting of —

       (a) the President of the Disciplinary Commission who must be
            a registered medical practitioner of at least 20 years’
            standing;

       (b) such number of registered medical practitioners as the
            Minister may determine, each of at least 10 years’
            standing; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            68

          (c) such number of legal professionals as the Minister may
              determine.

(2) The Disciplinary Commission has the following functions:

(a) to appoint Disciplinary Tribunals;

(b) to oversee the training of members of the Complaints Panel
     and Health Committees;

          (c) to oversee the procedures and processes of Disciplinary
              Tribunals;

(d) to maintain such information and records as may be
     prescribed;

          (e) to publish such information in such manner as may be
              prescribed.

 (3) In addition to the functions conferred by this section, the
Disciplinary Commission may undertake such other functions as the
Minister may assign to the Commission, by notification in the
Gazette, and in so undertaking —

(a) the Commission is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of
     this Act; and

(b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Commission in
     respect of those other functions and duties.

 (4) A member of the Disciplinary Commission mentioned in
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) is appointed for a term of 3 years and
is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (5) The President of the Disciplinary Commission may delegate to
any other member of the Commission who is a registered medical
practitioner any of the duties of the President of the Disciplinary
Commission.

 (6) A member of the Disciplinary Commission must not be
appointed a member of an Inquiry Committee, a Complaints
Committee, a Review Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health
Committee or an Interim Orders Committee except with the approval
of the President of the Disciplinary Commission.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
69  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

(7) The Disciplinary Commission may —

    (a) appoint one or more committees for any general or special
         purpose which in the opinion of the Commission may be
         better regulated or managed by a committee; and

    (b) delegate to any committee appointed under paragraph (a),
         with or without restrictions or conditions, any of the
         powers or functions of the Commission.

 (8) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
appointed under subsection (7) and the number of those members
necessary to form a quorum are to be fixed by the Disciplinary
Commission.

 (9) A committee appointed under subsection (7) may include one or
more persons who are not members of the Disciplinary Commission.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Appointment of Disciplinary Tribunals

 58.—(1) Subject to section 59, the President of the Disciplinary
Commission may appoint a Disciplinary Tribunal consisting of —

       (a) 2 members of the Complaints Panel who are registered
            medical practitioners of at least 10 years’ standing; and

       (b) one other member of the Complaints Panel who is a legal
            professional,

to conduct a formal inquiry into any matter referred to the President
of the Disciplinary Commission under section 40(7) or 46(8).

 (2) Subject to section 59, the chairman of a Disciplinary Tribunal is
a member of that Tribunal so designated by the President of the
Disciplinary Commission, and where the President of the
Disciplinary Commission designates a registered medical
practitioner as the chairman of the Disciplinary Tribunal, that
registered medical practitioner must have at least 20 years’ standing.

 (3) A member of an Inquiry Committee, a Complaints Committee,
a Review Committee, a Health Committee or an Interim Orders
Committee is disqualified from acting as a member of a Disciplinary
Tribunal conducting an inquiry into the same matter as the Inquiry

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            70

Committee, Complaints Committee, Review Committee, Health
Committee or Interim Orders Committee, as the case may be.

 (4) A Disciplinary Tribunal may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters, as the President of the Disciplinary Commission
thinks fit.

 (5) The President of the Disciplinary Commission may at any
time —

(a) revoke the appointment of a Disciplinary Tribunal;

(b) remove any member of a Disciplinary Tribunal;

          (c) fill any vacancy in a Disciplinary Tribunal; or

(d) where the appointment of a Disciplinary Tribunal has been
     revoked under paragraph (a) or a Disciplinary Tribunal is
     for any reason unable to continue with an inquiry, appoint
     another Disciplinary Tribunal in place of the
     firstmentioned Disciplinary Tribunal to continue with the
     inquiry.

 (6) The Disciplinary Tribunal that is appointed under
subsection (5)(d) may, with the consent of the President of the
Disciplinary Commission and the registered medical practitioner to
whom the matter relates, and having regard to the evidence given, the
arguments adduced and any order made during the proceedings
before the previous Disciplinary Tribunal, conduct a formal inquiry
into the matter afresh.

 (7) The production of any written instrument purporting to be
signed by the President of the Disciplinary Commission and making
an appointment, a revocation or a removal mentioned in this section
constitutes prima facie evidence that such appointment, revocation or
removal has been duly made.

 (8) Every member of a Disciplinary Tribunal is to be paid such
remuneration as the President of the Disciplinary Commission may
determine.

 (9) No act done by or under the authority of a Disciplinary Tribunal
is invalid in consequence of any defect that is subsequently

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
71  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

discovered in the appointment or qualification of the members or any
of them.

 (10) The chairman of a Disciplinary Tribunal may at any time
summon a meeting of the Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (11) All the members of a Disciplinary Tribunal must be personally
present at any meeting of that Tribunal to constitute a quorum for the
transaction of any business.

 (12) All the members of a Disciplinary Tribunal present at any
meeting of that Tribunal must vote on any question arising at the
meeting, and such question must be determined by a majority of
votes.

(13) However, if any member of a Disciplinary Tribunal —

    (a) has his appointment revoked or is removed under
         subsection (5); or

    (b) is unable through death, illness or any other cause to
         continue with the formal inquiry of the matter,

the Disciplinary Tribunal must not make any decision on any
question mentioned in subsection (12) until that vacancy is filled.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Appointment of Disciplinary Tribunal by Chief Justice

 59.—(1) Where the President of the Disciplinary Commission is of
the opinion that it would be appropriate for a Disciplinary Tribunal to
be chaired by a Supreme Court Judge or a Judicial Commissioner, the
President of the Disciplinary Commission is to apply to the Chief
Justice to appoint the Disciplinary Tribunal, and the Chief Justice
may appoint the Disciplinary Tribunal by —

       (a) appointing a Supreme Court Judge or a Judicial
            Commissioner as chairman of the Disciplinary Tribunal;
            and

       (b) after consulting the President of the Disciplinary
            Commission, appointing 2 members of the Complaints
            Panel who are registered medical practitioners each of at
            least 10 years’ standing, as members of the Disciplinary
            Tribunal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            72

 (2) In relation to any Disciplinary Tribunal appointed under
subsection (1) —

(a) the Chief Justice may exercise the powers of the President
     of the Disciplinary Commission under section 58(4) to (8);
     and

(b) a reference in section 58(4) to (8) to the President of the
     Disciplinary Commission is a reference to the Chief
     Justice.

 (3) For any Disciplinary Tribunal appointed under subsection (1),
the Chief Justice may delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed upon the Chief Justice by subsection (2)
and section 59A(11)(a) to any Supreme Court Judge (other than one
who is the chairman of the Disciplinary Tribunal), subject to any
condition that the Chief Justice may specify.

 (4) Where there is a delegation of any power or duty to a Supreme
Court Judge under subsection (3), any reference in relation to that
power or duty in this Division to the President of the Disciplinary
Commission mentioned in subsection (2)(b) is a reference to the
Supreme Court Judge who is delegated the power or duty.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Proceedings of Disciplinary Tribunal

 59A.—(1) A Disciplinary Tribunal may meet from time to time to
inquire into any matter mentioned in section 58(1) and may, subject to
any rules made under section 70A, regulate its own procedure.

 (2) A member of a Disciplinary Tribunal who ceases to be a
member of the Complaints Panel on the expiration of his term of
office is taken to be a member of the Disciplinary Tribunal until the
completion of the work by the Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (3) The registered medical practitioner concerned may appear in
person before the Disciplinary Tribunal or be represented by counsel.

 (4) A Disciplinary Tribunal is not bound to act in a formal manner
and is not bound by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1893* or by
any other law relating to evidence but may inform itself on any matter
in such manner as it thinks fit.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
73  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (5) A Disciplinary Tribunal may, for the purposes of any
proceedings before it, administer oaths and any party to the
proceedings may take out a subpoena to testify or a subpoena to
produce documents.

 (6) The subpoenas mentioned in subsection (5) must be served and
may be enforced as if they were orders to attend court or orders to
produce documents issued in connection with a civil action in the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/07/2022]

 (7) Any person giving evidence before a Disciplinary Tribunal is
legally bound to tell the truth.

 (8) Every witness has the same privileges and immunities in
relation to hearings before a Disciplinary Tribunal as if such hearings
were proceedings in a court of law.

 (9) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal is appointed to conduct a formal
inquiry into any complaint or information referred to the President of
the Disciplinary Commission under section 40(7) —

    (a) the Disciplinary Tribunal may direct an investigator
         appointed under section 60A to investigate the complaint
         or information; and

    (b) the investigator may exercise one or more of the powers
         under that section in carrying out the investigator’s
         functions and duties under this Part.

 (10) A Disciplinary Tribunal must carry out its work expeditiously,
and must make its finding and order within 6 months after the date of
the appointment of the Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (11) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal is of the opinion that it will not
be able to make its finding and order within the period mentioned in
subsection (10) —

    (a) in the case of a Disciplinary Tribunal appointed under
         section 59(1) —

    (i) the chairman of the Disciplinary Tribunal may apply
        in writing to the Chief Justice for one or more
        extensions of time to make its finding and order; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            74

          (ii) the Chief Justice may, subject to such conditions as
               the Chief Justice may impose, grant —

          (A) one or more extensions of time, each not
               exceeding 9 months; or

             (B) if there are circumstances beyond the control of
                   the Disciplinary Tribunal that necessitate an
                   extension of time that exceeds 9 months, one or
                   more extensions of time, each exceeding 9
                   months; or

                                                                    [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

(b) in any other case — the chairman of the Disciplinary
     Tribunal may apply in writing to the President of the
     Disciplinary Commission for an extension of time to make
     its finding and order.

 (12) Upon receiving an application under subsection (11)(b), the
President of the Disciplinary Commission may, if the President of the
Disciplinary Commission is satisfied that the circumstances of the
case justify the grant of an extension, grant the Disciplinary Tribunal
one (but not more than one) extension of the period mentioned in
subsection (10), except that the extension must not extend beyond the
period of 9 months after the date of the appointment of that
Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (13) The Medical Council may, upon a written request by a
Disciplinary Tribunal, apply to the General Division of the High
Court in accordance with section 59U for a further extension of time
that extends beyond the period mentioned in subsection (12) to make
its finding and order.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Appointment of experts and legal counsel

 59B.—(1) For the purposes of any formal inquiry by a Disciplinary
Tribunal, the Disciplinary Tribunal may appoint one or more of the
following:

       (a) one or more independent experts;

       (b) an advocate and solicitor to advise that Disciplinary
            Tribunal on any legal matter relating to the inquiry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
75  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (2) In appointing any expert under subsection (1)(a), the
Disciplinary Tribunal must hear the views of the registered medical
practitioner concerned and the Medical Council.

 (3) The Disciplinary Tribunal may, instead of or in addition to
appointing its experts under subsection (1)(a), allow the registered
medical practitioner concerned and the Medical Council to appoint
their respective experts.

 (4) An expert or advocate and solicitor appointed under
subsection (1) may be paid remuneration of an amount and by one
or more persons to be determined by the Disciplinary Tribunal.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Referral and transfer of cases to Health Committee

 59C.—(1) Where, in the course of inquiring into the case of a
registered medical practitioner, it appears to a Disciplinary Tribunal
that his fitness to practise medicine may be impaired by reason of his
physical or mental condition, the Disciplinary Tribunal may refer that
question to a Health Committee for determination.

 (2) If, on a referral under subsection (1), the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered medical practitioner to
practise medicine is not impaired by reason of his physical or mental
condition, the Health Committee must certify its opinion to the
Disciplinary Tribunal.

 (3) If, on a referral under subsection (1), the Health Committee
determines that the fitness of the registered medical practitioner to
practise medicine is impaired by reason of his physical or mental
condition, the Health Committee must —

       (a) certify its opinion to the Disciplinary Tribunal; and

       (b) proceed to dispose of the case in accordance with
            section 59I,

and the Disciplinary Tribunal ceases to exercise its function in
relation to the case.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            76

Findings of Disciplinary Tribunal

 59D.—(1) Where a registered medical practitioner is found by a
Disciplinary Tribunal —

(a) to have been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of any
     offence implying a defect in character which makes him
     unfit to practise medicine;

(b) to have been guilty of such improper act or conduct which,
     in the opinion of the Disciplinary Tribunal, brings
     disrepute to his profession;

          (c) to have been guilty of professional misconduct; or

(d) to have failed to provide professional services of the
     quality that is reasonable to expect of him,

the Disciplinary Tribunal may make one or more orders under
subsection (2).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Disciplinary Tribunal
may —

(a) by order remove the name of the registered medical
     practitioner from the appropriate register;

(b) by order suspend the registration of the registered medical
     practitioner in the appropriate register for a period not
     exceeding 3 years;

          (c) where the registered medical practitioner is a fully
              registered medical practitioner in Part I of the Register
              of Medical Practitioners — by order remove his name from
              Part I of that Register and register him instead as a medical
              practitioner with conditional registration in Part II of that
              Register, and section 21(4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) applies
              accordingly;

(d) where the registered medical practitioner is registered in
     any register other than Part I of the Register of Medical
     Practitioners — by order impose additional appropriate
     conditions or restrictions on his registration or vary the
     conditions or restrictions already imposed under
     section 21, 23 or 24, as the case may be;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
77  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (e) by order impose on the registered medical practitioner a
        penalty not exceeding $100,000;

    (f) order that the registered medical practitioner be censured
        in writing;

    (g) by order require the registered medical practitioner to give
         such undertaking as the Disciplinary Tribunal thinks fit to
         abstain in future from the conduct complained of; or

    (h) make such other order as the Disciplinary Tribunal thinks
         fit, including any action that a Complaints Committee may
         take under section 46(1).

 (3) In any proceedings instituted under this Part against a registered
medical practitioner consequent upon his conviction for a criminal
offence, a Disciplinary Tribunal and the General Division of the High
Court on appeal from any order of the Disciplinary Tribunal are to
accept his conviction as final and conclusive.

 (4) Where a registered medical practitioner is not found by a
Disciplinary Tribunal to have been convicted or guilty of any of the
matters mentioned in subsection (1), the Disciplinary Tribunal must
dismiss the matter mentioned in section 58(1).

 (5) A Disciplinary Tribunal may under subsection (2) order the
registered medical practitioner concerned to pay to the Medical
Council such sums as it thinks fit in respect of costs and expenses of
and incidental to any proceedings before the Disciplinary Tribunal
and, where applicable, an Interim Orders Committee.

 (6) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
any costs mentioned in subsection (5) and any order for costs made by
the General Division of the High Court is enforceable as if it were
ordered in connection with a civil action in the General Division of
the High Court.

 (7) The Disciplinary Tribunal in ordering that costs be paid by the
registered medical practitioner under this section may certify that
costs for more than one advocate and solicitor be paid if it is satisfied
that the issues involved in the proceedings are of sufficient
complexity, and the certification by the Disciplinary Tribunal has

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            78

the same effect as if it were a certification by a Judge in a civil action
in the General Division of the High Court.

(8) The costs and expenses mentioned in subsection (5) include —

(a) the costs and expenses of any advocate and solicitor
     appointed by the Medical Council for proceedings before
     the Disciplinary Tribunal and, where applicable, the
     Interim Orders Committee, and any expert appointed by
     the Medical Council under section 59B(3);

(b) such reasonable expenses as the Medical Council may pay
     to witnesses; and

          (c) such reasonable expenses as are necessary for the conduct
              of proceedings before the Disciplinary Tribunal and the
              Interim Orders Committee.

                                                                              [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Further orders by Disciplinary Tribunal

 59E.—(1) Where a registered medical practitioner, in respect of
whom an order under subsection (2) or (3) or section 59D(2)(c) or (d),
59L(1)(b) or 59N(1)(d) is made, is found by a Disciplinary Tribunal
(whether, in the case of an order under subsection (2) or (3) or
section 59D(2)(c) or (d), it is the Disciplinary Tribunal that made the
order or another Disciplinary Tribunal appointed in its place) to have
failed to comply with any of the requirements imposed on him as
conditions or restrictions of his registration, the Disciplinary Tribunal
may, if it thinks fit, by order —

       (a) remove his name from the appropriate register; or

       (b) suspend his registration in the appropriate register for such
            period not exceeding 12 months as may be specified in the
            order.

 (2) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(b) or section 59D(2)(b), the Disciplinary
Tribunal may make an order under section 59D(2)(c) or (d), to take
effect immediately after the expiration of the current period of
suspension.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
79  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (3) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(b) or section 59D(2)(b) against a registered
medical practitioner and he has failed to comply with that order, the
Disciplinary Tribunal or another Disciplinary Tribunal appointed in
its place may, if it thinks fit —

    (a) by order remove his name from the appropriate register; or

    (b) make an order under section 59D(2)(c) or (d), to take effect
         immediately after the expiration of the current period of
         suspension.

 (4) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order under
section 59D(2)(c) or (d), the Disciplinary Tribunal or another
Disciplinary Tribunal appointed in its place may revoke the order
or revoke or vary any of the conditions or restrictions imposed by that
order.

 (5) Where a Disciplinary Tribunal has made an order under
section 59D or this section, or has varied the conditions or
restrictions imposed by an order under section 59D or this section,
the Registrar must immediately serve on the registered medical
practitioner and on the complainant a notice of the order or the
variation.

 (6) On making an order for the removal of the name of a registered
medical practitioner from the appropriate register or for the
suspension of his registration under subsection (1) or (3) or
section 59D(2)(a) or (b), a Disciplinary Tribunal, if satisfied that to
do so —

    (a) is necessary for the protection of members of the public or
         is otherwise in the public interest; or

    (b) would be in the best interests of the registered medical
         practitioner concerned,

may order that, despite section 59F(1) or an appeal under
section 59G —

    (c) the registered medical practitioner’s name be removed
        from the appropriate register immediately; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            80

(d) the registered medical practitioner’s registration in the
     register be suspended immediately.

 (7) Where an order under subsection (6) is made, the Registrar must
immediately serve a notice of the order on the person to whom it
applies and —

(a) if that person was present or represented at the proceedings
     of the Disciplinary Tribunal, the order takes effect from the
     time the order is made; or

(b) if that person was neither present nor represented at the
     proceedings of the Disciplinary Tribunal, the order takes
     effect from the date of service of the notice on him.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

When order by Disciplinary Tribunal takes effect

 59F.—(1) Subject to section 59E(6), an order made by a
Disciplinary Tribunal for the removal of the name of a registered
medical practitioner from the appropriate register or for the
suspension of the registered medical practitioner’s registration
under section 59D(2)(a) or (b) or 59E(1) or (3), does not take
effect until the expiration of 30 days after the order is made.

 (2) An order of a Disciplinary Tribunal, other than an order for the
removal of any name or for the suspension of any registration under
section 59D(2)(a) or (b) or 59E(1) or (3), takes effect from the date
the order is made.

 (3) While any order for the suspension of any registration remains
in force, the person concerned is not regarded as being registered
even though his name still appears in the register concerned; but on
the expiration of such order, his rights and privileges as a registered
medical practitioner are to be revived immediately after the date of
such expiration but only if the person concerned has complied with all
the terms of the order.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Appeal against Disciplinary Tribunal’s decision or order

 59G.—(1) If the registered medical practitioner concerned or the
Medical Council is dissatisfied with a decision of or an order by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
81  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

Disciplinary Tribunal mentioned in section 59D(2), (4) or (5) or 59E,
the registered medical practitioner or the Medical Council may,
within 30 days after the service on the registered medical practitioner
of the notice of the decision or order, appeal to the General Division
of the High Court against the decision or order.

 (2) An appeal under this section is to be heard by 3 Judges of the
General Division of the High Court and from the decision of the
General Division of the High Court there is to be no appeal.

 (3) In any appeal to the General Division of the High Court against
a decision or an order mentioned in section 59D(2), (4) or (5) or 59E,
the General Division of the High Court is to accept as final and
conclusive any finding of the Disciplinary Tribunal relating to any
issue of medical ethics or standards of professional conduct unless
such finding is in the opinion of the General Division of the High
Court unsafe, unreasonable or contrary to the evidence.

 (4) Despite sections 59D, 59E and 59F, where an appeal has been
made to the General Division of the High Court against a decision or
an order of the Disciplinary Tribunal mentioned in section 59D(2) or
59E (called in this section a relevant order), the relevant order is not
to take effect until after —

    (a) the relevant order is confirmed by the General Division of
         the High Court;

    (b) the appeal is for any reason dismissed by the General
         Division of the High Court; or

    (c) the appeal is withdrawn.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not apply if, at the time of making the
relevant order —

    (a) where a relevant order is made under section 59D(2)(a) or
         (b) or 59E(1) or (3) — the Disciplinary Tribunal makes an
         order under section 59E(6)(c) or (d); or

    (b) in any other case — the Disciplinary Tribunal orders that
         the relevant order take effect immediately despite an
         appeal because doing so —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            82

          (i) is necessary for the protection of members of the
              public or is otherwise in the public interest; or

          (ii) would be in the best interests of the registered
               medical practitioner concerned.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                     Division 9 — Health Committees

Appointment of Health Committees

 59H.—(1) The Medical Council may, from time to time, appoint
one or more Health Committees, each comprising 3 persons, at least
one of whom must be a member of the Medical Council.

 (2) The Medical Council must appoint as the chairman of a Health
Committee —

       (a) if the Health Committee has only one member of the
            Medical Council — that member of the Medical Council;
            and

       (b) if the Health Committee has more than one member of the
            Medical Council — any of those members of the Medical
            Council as the Medical Council thinks fit.

 (3) A Health Committee is to inquire into any case or matter
referred to it under this Act.

 (4) A Health Committee may be appointed in connection with one
or more matters or for a fixed period of time as the Medical Council
thinks fit.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Unfitness to practise medicine through illness, etc.

 59I.—(1) Where a Health Committee determines that a registered
medical practitioner’s fitness to practise medicine is impaired by
reason of the registered medical practitioner’s physical or mental
condition, the Health Committee may take one or more of the
following actions:

       (a) by order suspend his registration in the appropriate register
            for such period not exceeding 12 months as may be
            specified in the order;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
83  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (b) where the registered medical practitioner is a fully
         registered medical practitioner in Part I of the Register
         of Medical Practitioners — by order remove his name from
         Part I of that Register and register him instead as a medical
         practitioner with conditional registration in Part II of that
         Register, and section 21(4), (6), (7), (8) and (9) applies
         accordingly;

    (c) where the registered medical practitioner is registered in
        any register other than Part I of the Register of Medical
        Practitioners — by order impose additional appropriate
        conditions or restrictions on his registration or vary the
        conditions or restrictions already imposed under
        section 21, 23 or 24, as the case may be;

    (d) recommend to the Medical Council that the name of the
         registered medical practitioner be removed from the
         appropriate register;

    (e) order that the registered medical practitioner pay to the
        Medical Council costs and expenses of and incidental to
        any inquiry or hearing by the Health Committee and,
        where applicable, an Interim Orders Committee.

 (2) Where the Medical Council accepts the recommendation of the
Health Committee under subsection (1)(d), the Medical Council must
by order remove the name of the registered medical practitioner from
the appropriate register and that order takes effect from the date the
order is made.

 (3) Where a registered medical practitioner, in respect of whom an
order under subsection (1)(b) or (c), (4) or (5)(b) or section 59L(1)(b)
or 59N(1)(d) is made, is determined by a Health Committee to have
failed to comply with any of the requirements imposed on him as
conditions or restrictions of his registration, the Health Committee
may, if it thinks fit, by order suspend his registration in the
appropriate register for such period not exceeding 12 months as
may be specified in the order.

 (4) Where a Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(a) or (3), the Health Committee may make an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            84

order under subsection (1)(b) or (c), to take effect from the expiration
of the current period of suspension.

 (5) Where a Health Committee has made an order for suspension
under subsection (1)(a) or (3) against a person and that person has
failed to comply with that order, the Health Committee may, if it
thinks fit —

(a) make a recommendation mentioned in subsection (1)(d) to
     the Medical Council, and subsection (2) applies
     accordingly; or

(b) make an order under subsection (1)(b) or (c), to take effect
     immediately after the expiration of the current period of
     suspension.

 (6) Where a Health Committee has made an order under
subsection (1)(b) or (c), the Health Committee or another Health
Committee appointed in its place may, on its own motion or on the
application of the Medical Council or the registered medical
practitioner, revoke the order or revoke or vary any of the
conditions or restrictions imposed by the order.

 (7) An application under subsection (6) must not be made in respect
of the same registered medical practitioner more than once in any
period of 12 months.

 (8) Where a Health Committee has made an order (including a
revocation of the order or a revocation or variation of any condition or
restriction imposed by the order) under this section, the Registrar
must immediately serve on the person to whom the order applies a
notice of the order or of the revocation or variation.

 (9) While a person’s registration in a register is suspended by virtue
of this section, the person is to be treated as not being registered in the
register even though the person’s name still appears in it.

 (10) Section 59A(3) to (13) applies, with the necessary
modifications, to a Health Committee as it applies to a Disciplinary
Tribunal appointed under section 58 and for this purpose —

(a) a reference in those provisions to a Disciplinary Tribunal is
     a reference to the Health Committee; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
85  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (b) a reference in those provisions to the President of the
         Disciplinary Commission is a reference to the Medical
         Council.

 (11) Any person who is aggrieved by an order (including a
revocation of the order or a revocation or variation of any
condition or restriction imposed by the order) made under this
section may, within 30 days after the service on the person of the
notice of the order, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (12) Any order (including a revocation of the order or a revocation
or variation of any condition or restriction imposed by the order)
made under this section takes effect from the date the order,
revocation or variation is made unless the Minister decides otherwise.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

               Division 10 — Interim Orders Committees

Interim Orders Committee

 59J.—(1) The Medical Council may, from time to time, appoint
one or more committees each comprising 3 members who must each
be a member of the Medical Council or the Complaints Panel, to be
known for the purposes of this Act as Interim Orders Committees, to
inquire into or review any matter under this Division.

 (2) An Interim Orders Committee may be appointed in connection
with one or more matters or for a fixed period of time.

 (3) The chairman of the Complaints Panel, the President of the
Disciplinary Commission, an Inquiry Committee, a Complaints
Committee, a Review Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal or a Health
Committee may refer any complaint or information, that was referred
to the chairman, President, Committee or Tribunal (as the case may
be), to the Medical Council for the purpose of —

       (a) appointing an Interim Orders Committee; or

       (b) referring the complaint or information to an Interim Orders
            Committee,

for the Interim Orders Committee to determine whether an order
should be made under section 59L(1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            86

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Medical Council may, on its own
motion and at any time after any complaint or information is made,
provided or referred under section 40(1) or (6)(a), refer the complaint
or information to an Interim Orders Committee for the purpose of
determining whether an order should be made under section 59L(1).

 (5) The Medical Council must not refer any complaint or
information to which section 42(1) or (2) applies to an Interim
Orders Committee under subsection (4) at any time before the
President of the Disciplinary Commission has assessed that it is in the
public interest to refer the complaint or information to the chairman
of the Complaints Panel under section 42(3)(a).

 (6) The chairman of the Complaints Panel, or a member of an
Inquiry Committee, a Complaints Committee, a Review Committee,
a Disciplinary Tribunal or a Health Committee, is disqualified from
acting as a member of an Interim Orders Committee inquiring into
and determining the same matter as the chairman, or the Inquiry
Committee, Complaints Committee, Review Committee,
Disciplinary Tribunal or Health Committee, as the case may be.

 (7) Where the Medical Council refers any complaint or information
under subsection (4) to an Interim Orders Committee, any member of
the Medical Council who participated in or influenced the making of
the decision to make the referral is disqualified from acting as a
member of the Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or reviewing
the same matter.

 (8) A member of an Interim Orders Committee inquiring into or
reviewing any matter is disqualified from acting as a member of an
Inquiry Committee, a Complaints Committee, a Review Committee,
a Disciplinary Tribunal or a Health Committee inquiring into or
reviewing the same matter, or taking part in any deliberation of the
Medical Council in respect of the same matter under any provision of
this Part.

 (9) Section 59A(3) to (9) applies, with the necessary modifications,
to an Interim Orders Committee and to proceedings before it as it
applies to a Disciplinary Tribunal appointed under section 58 and to
proceedings before such Disciplinary Tribunal.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
87  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

Immediate interim orders

 59K.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), an Interim Orders Committee
may, at any time after any complaint or information is referred to it
but before an interim order is made under section 59L(1), make an
immediate interim order against a registered medical practitioner
without first giving the registered medical practitioner an opportunity
to be heard if —

    (a) the Interim Orders Committee is satisfied that —

    (i) a court of law in Singapore has found that the
        registered medical practitioner has engaged in any
        conduct alleged in the complaint or information; and

    (ii) the conduct poses an imminent danger to the health
         or safety of any patient of the registered medical
         practitioner; or

    (b) the Medical Council certifies that the Medical Council is of
         the opinion that any conduct alleged in the complaint or
         information poses an imminent danger to the health or
         safety of any patient of the registered medical practitioner.

 (2) The Registrar must immediately notify the registered medical
practitioner of the order made under subsection (1), and such order
takes effect from the date the order is made.

(3) An immediate interim order ceases to have effect from —

    (a) the date the Interim Orders Committee revokes the
         immediate interim order;

    (b) the date an interim order is made under section 59L(1) to
         replace the immediate interim order; or

    (c) where the registered medical practitioner has not, within
        one month after the date of the immediate interim order,
        been given an opportunity to be heard by the Interim
        Orders Committee on the question whether an interim
        order under section 59L(1) should be made — the
        expiration of one month after the date of the immediate
        interim order,

whichever occurs first.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            88

(4) In this section, “immediate interim order” means an order —

(a) that a registered medical practitioner’s registration in the
     appropriate register be suspended from the date of the
     order; or

(b) that a registered medical practitioner’s registration be
     conditional on his compliance, from the date of the order,
     with such conditions or restrictions specified in the order as
     the Interim Orders Committee thinks fit to impose.

 (5) This section does not apply in relation to any complaint or
information referred to an Interim Orders Committee if the Interim
Orders Committee has made an interim order under section 59L(1) in
respect of the same complaint or information.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Interim orders

 59L.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), where, upon due inquiry into
any complaint or information referred to an Interim Orders
Committee, the Interim Orders Committee is satisfied that it is
necessary for the protection of members of the public or is otherwise
in the public interest, or it is in the interests of the registered medical
practitioner concerned, that his registration be suspended or be made
subject to conditions or restrictions, the Interim Orders Committee
may make an order —

       (a) that his registration in the appropriate register be
            suspended for a period not exceeding 18 months
            specified in the order (called in this Part an interim
            suspension order); or

       (b) that his registration be conditional on his compliance,
            during a period not exceeding 18 months, with such
            conditions or restrictions specified in the order as the
            Interim Orders Committee thinks fit to impose (called in
            this Part an interim restriction order).

 (2) An Interim Orders Committee must inquire into and decide on
the complaint or information referred to it as soon as is practicable
after the complaint or information is referred to it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
89  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (3) The Registrar must immediately notify the registered medical
practitioner of the order made under subsection (1), and such order
takes effect from the date the order is made.

 (4) An Interim Orders Committee must not make an order under
subsection (1) at any time after the relevant proceedings are
concluded.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the relevant proceedings are
concluded when any one of the events mentioned in
section 59Q(2)(a), (b), (c) or (d) occurs.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Review of interim orders

 59M.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where an Interim Orders
Committee has made an order under section 59L(1), the Interim
Orders Committee or another Interim Orders Committee appointed in
its place —

       (a) must review the order within the period of 6 months
            beginning on the date the order was made, and must, for so
            long as the order continues in force, further review it before
            the end of the period of 3 months beginning on the date of
            the decision of the immediately preceding review; and

       (b) may review the order where new evidence relevant to the
            order has become available after the making of the order.

 (2) Where the General Division of the High Court has extended an
order under section 59P(2) or an Interim Orders Committee has made
a replacement order under section 59N(1)(c) or (d), the first review
after such extension or making of the replacement order must take
place —

       (a) if the order (or the order which has been replaced) had not
            been reviewed under subsection (1) — within the period of
            6 months beginning on the date on which the General
            Division of the High Court ordered the extension or on
            which the replacement order was made, as the case may be;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            90

(b) if the order (or the order which has been replaced) had been
     reviewed under subsection (1) — within the period of 3
     months beginning on the date on which the General
     Division of the High Court ordered the extension or on
     which the replacement order was made.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Interim Orders Committee may revoke, vary or replace
interim order

 59N.—(1) Upon a review under section 59M or upon the
recommendation of the chairman of the Complaints Panel, the
President of the Disciplinary Commission, the Medical Council or
any specified committee, the Interim Orders Committee that made an
interim suspension order or interim restriction order under this
section or section 59L(1) in relation to any registered medical
practitioner may do any of the following:

       (a) revoke the order or revoke any condition or restriction
            imposed by the order;

       (b) make an order varying any condition or restriction imposed
            by the order;

       (c) in the case of an interim restriction order — if satisfied that
            to do so is necessary for the protection of members of the
            public or is otherwise in the public interest, or is in the
            interests of the registered medical practitioner, or that the
            registered medical practitioner has not complied with any
            requirement imposed as a condition or restriction of his
            registration in the interim restriction order, replace that
            order with an interim suspension order having effect for the
            remainder of the period of the former;

       (d) in the case of an interim suspension order — if satisfied
            that the public interest or the interests of the registered
            medical practitioner would be more adequately served by
            an interim restriction order, replace the interim suspension
            order with an interim restriction order having effect for the
            remainder of the period of the former.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
91  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (2) The Registrar must immediately notify the registered medical
practitioner of the decision under subsection (1), and such order takes
effect from the date the order is made.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a reference to an Interim
Orders Committee that made an interim suspension order or interim
restriction order includes a reference to another Interim Orders
Committee appointed in its place.

 (4) In this section, “specified committee”, in relation to the
registered medical practitioner against whom an interim suspension
order or interim restriction order has been made, means an Inquiry
Committee, a Complaints Committee, a Review Committee, a
Disciplinary Tribunal or a Health Committee appointed to conduct
an inquiry or review (as the case may be) in relation to the complaint
against or information about the registered medical practitioner.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Right of hearing

 59O.—(1) An order under section 59L(1) or 59N(1)(b), (c) or (d)
must not be made by an Interim Orders Committee in respect of any
registered medical practitioner unless he has been afforded an
opportunity of appearing before the Interim Orders Committee and
being heard on the question of whether such an order should be made
in his case.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the registered medical
practitioner may be represented before the Interim Orders Committee
by counsel.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Application to General Division of the High Court

 59P.—(1) The Medical Council may apply to the General Division
of the High Court for an extension of the period for which an order
made under section 59L(1) or 59N(1)(c) or (d) has effect, and may
apply again for one or more further extensions.

 (2) Upon an application under subsection (1), the General Division
of the High Court may grant an extension (or a further extension) for a
period not exceeding 12 months.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            92

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may, upon application
by the registered medical practitioner concerned —

(a) in the case of an interim suspension order — revoke the
     order;

(b) in the case of an interim restriction order — revoke the
     order or vary any condition or restriction imposed by the
     order; or

          (c) in either case — substitute for the period specified in the
              order (or in the order extending it) some other period which
              could have been specified in the order when it was made
              (or in the order extending it).

 (4) An application under subsection (3) must be made within 14
days after the registered medical practitioner concerned is notified of
the interim suspension order or interim restriction order under
section 59L(3) or 59N(2), as the case may be.

 (5) An application under subsection (3) must be heard otherwise
than in open court.

 (6) The General Division of the High Court may, upon an
application by the registered medical practitioner, order that any
information contained in any document relating to an application
under subsection (3) must not be published or disclosed, unless —

(a) the registered medical practitioner consents to the
     publication or disclosure; or

(b) the General Division of the High Court is satisfied that the
     information if published or disclosed does not disclose any
     confidential information.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Duration of interim orders
 59Q.—(1) An interim suspension order or an interim restriction

order is in force until the earlier of the following:
       (a) the end of the period specified —
               (i) in the order; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
93  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

    (ii) if the period is extended under section 59P(2), in the
         order extending it;

    (b) the date on which the relevant proceedings are concluded.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), the relevant proceedings
are concluded when any one of the following occurs:

    (a) where an Inquiry Committee has been appointed to inquire
         into the complaint or information — the Inquiry
         Committee has under section 43 —

    (i) dismissed the complaint; or

    (ii) issued a letter of advice;

    (b) where a Complaints Committee has been appointed to
         inquire into the complaint or information — the
         Complaints Committee has taken an action under
         section 46(1) and —

    (i) no request for review under section 54(1), (2) or (3)
        was made to the Review Committee against that
        action within the period specified in that section; or

    (ii) such a request was made but withdrawn, or the
         Review Committee made an order under
         section 56(4)(a) in relation to the request;

    (c) where a Disciplinary Tribunal has been appointed to
        inquire into the complaint or information — the
        Disciplinary Tribunal —

    (i) has made an order under section 59D(2) which has
        taken effect; or

    (ii) has dismissed the complaint or matter under
         section 59D(4);

    (d) where a Health Committee has been appointed to inquire
         into the matter —

    (i) the Health Committee has made an order under
        section 59I(1) which has taken effect;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            94

          (ii) the Medical Council has made an order under
               section 59I(2) which has taken effect; or

          (iii) the Health Committee has dismissed the complaint
                or matter.

                                                                      [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Person suspended under interim suspension order not
regarded as registered

 59R.—(1) While a person’s registration in the register is suspended
by virtue of an interim suspension order, the person is not to be
regarded as being registered even though the person’s name still
appears in the register.

 (2) Upon the expiration or revocation of an interim suspension
order, the person’s rights and privileges as a registered medical
practitioner are revived immediately after the date of the expiration or
revocation, but only if he has complied with all the terms of the order.

 (3) To avoid doubt, sections 40 to 59E, 59H and 59I continue to
apply to a person whose registration in the register is suspended by or
under an interim suspension order.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                       Division 11 — Miscellaneous

Medical Council may appoint legal counsel

 59S.—(1) For the purposes of an inquiry under this Part by any
Inquiry Committee, Complaints Committee, Review Committee,
Health Committee or Interim Orders Committee, the Medical
Council may appoint an advocate and solicitor to advise that
Committee on any legal matter relating to the inquiry.

 (2) Where an advocate and solicitor is appointed under
subsection (1), the Medical Council may pay the advocate and
solicitor, as part of the expenses of the Medical Council, such
remuneration as the Medical Council may determine.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
95  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

Restoration of names to register

 59T.—(1) This section applies in relation to a medical practitioner
whose name has been removed from a register —

    (a) under section 38(2)(a) or 46(1)(g)(i) or (3)(a) or under
         section 37A(1)(i) or 49(1)(g)(i) as in force immediately
         before the date of commencement of section 7 of the
         Medical Registration (Amendment) Act 2020;

    (b) pursuant to an order made by a Disciplinary Tribunal under
         section 59D(2)(a) or 59E(1)(a) or (3)(a) or under
         section 53(2)(a) or 54(1)(a) or (3)(a) as in force
         immediately before that date;

    (c) on the recommendation of a Health Committee under
        section 59I(1)(d) or under section 58(1)(d) as in force
        immediately before that date;

    (d) pursuant to an order made by a Disciplinary Committee
         under section 45 or 46 as in force immediately before
         1 December 2010; or

    (e) under section 22 of the repealed Medical Registration Act
        (Cap. 174, 1985 Ed.).

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Medical Council may,
upon an application for restoration by the medical practitioner
mentioned in subsection (1), if it thinks fit —

    (a) restore his name to the register; or

    (b) register him as a medical practitioner with conditional
         registration in Part II of the Register of Medical
         Practitioners, and section 21(4), (6), (7), (8) and (9)
         applies accordingly.

 (3) In the case mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the Medical Council
must not restore the name of a medical practitioner to the register or
register him as a medical practitioner with conditional registration
under subsection (2) if —

    (a) the medical practitioner has not complied with all the terms
         of any order made against him by the Disciplinary
         Tribunal;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            96

(b) the application for restoration is made before the expiration
     of 3 years from the date of the removal; or

          (c) the application for restoration is made more than once in
              any period of 12 months by or on behalf of the medical
              practitioner.

 (4) In the case mentioned in subsection (1)(c), (d) or (e), the
Medical Council must not restore the name of a medical practitioner
to the register or register him as a medical practitioner with
conditional registration under subsection (2) if —

(a) the medical practitioner has not complied with all the terms
     of any order made against him by the Health Committee,
     Disciplinary Committee or Medical Council, as the case
     may be; or

(b) the application for restoration is made more than once in
     any period of 12 months by or on behalf of the medical
     practitioner.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Applications to General Division of the High Court for
extension of time

 59U.—(1) Subject to subsection (1A), where an application is made
to the General Division of the High Court under section 45(4), 56(3)
or 59A(13), the General Division of the High Court may, subject to
such conditions as the General Division of the High Court may
impose, grant one or more further extensions of time, each not
exceeding 9 months.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (1A) Despite subsection (1), if there are circumstances beyond the
control of the Complaints Committee, Review Committee or
Disciplinary Tribunal mentioned in section 45(4), 56(3) or 59A(13)
(as the case may be) that necessitate a further extension of time that
exceeds 9 months, the General Division of the High Court may,
subject to such conditions as the General Division of the High Court
may impose, grant one or more further extensions of time, each
exceeding 9 months.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
97  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) may be made by an
originating application without notice, and must not be heard in open
court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/07/2022]

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may, upon an
application by the Medical Council, order that any information
contained in any document relating to an application under
subsection (1) must not be published or disclosed, unless —

    (a) the Medical Council consents to the publication or
         disclosure; or

    (b) the General Division of the High Court is satisfied that the
         information if published or disclosed does not disclose any
         confidential information.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Meetings and proceedings of committees

 59V.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this section applies to every
Inquiry Committee, Complaints Committee, Review Committee,
Health Committee or Interim Orders Committee (each called in this
section a relevant committee) appointed under this Act.

 (2) Subsection (8) does not apply in relation to an Inquiry
Committee.

 (3) The appointing authority of a relevant committee may at any
time —

       (a) revoke the appointment of the relevant committee;

       (b) remove any member of the relevant committee;

       (c) fill any vacancy in the relevant committee; or

       (d) where the appointment of the relevant committee has been
            revoked under paragraph (a) or the relevant committee is
            for any reason unable to continue with an inquiry or review
            (as the case may be), appoint another relevant committee in
            place of the firstmentioned relevant committee to continue
            with the inquiry or review (as the case may be).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            98

 (4) No act done by or under the authority of a relevant committee is
invalid as a consequence of any defect that is subsequently
discovered in the appointment or qualifications of the members or
any of them.

 (5) The chairman of a relevant committee may at any time summon
a meeting of the relevant committee.

 (6) A relevant committee may meet for the purposes of its inquiry
or review (as the case may be), and may adjourn and otherwise
regulate the conduct of its inquiry or review (as the case may be) as its
members think fit.

 (7) All the members of a relevant committee must be present to
constitute a quorum for a meeting of the relevant committee, and any
resolution or decision in writing signed by all the members of a
relevant committee is as valid and effectual as if it had been made or
reached at a meeting of the relevant committee where all its members
were present.

 (8) All the members of a relevant committee present at any meeting
of the relevant committee must vote on any question arising at the
meeting, and such question must be determined by a majority of
votes.

(9) However, if any member of a relevant committee —

(a) has his appointment revoked or is removed under
     subsection (3); or

(b) is unable through death, illness or any other cause to
     continue with the inquiry or review (as the case may be),

the relevant committee must not make any decision on any question
arising at a meeting until that vacancy is filled.

 (10) A member of a relevant committee who ceases to be a member
of the Complaints Panel or Medical Council (as the case may be) on
the expiration of his term of office is taken to be a member of the
relevant committee until the completion of the work by the relevant
committee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
99  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

(11) In this section, “appointing authority” means —

    (a) in relation to an Inquiry Committee, a Complaints
         Committee or Review Committee — the chairman of the
         Complaints Panel; and

    (b) in relation to a Health Committee or an Interim Orders
         Committee — the Medical Council.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Employee of Ministry of Health not disqualified from being
committee member

 59W. Any member of the Medical Council who is employed in the
Ministry of Health is not disqualified from being a member of any
Inquiry Committee, Complaints Committee, Review Committee,
Disciplinary Tribunal, Health Committee or Interim Orders
Committee by reason only that the member is so employed.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Confidentiality of information

 59X.—(1) A person to whom this section applies is not compellable
in any proceedings to give evidence in respect of, or to produce any
document containing any information which has been obtained in the
course of, a performance assessment or fitness assessment under
section 52 or 53 except in —

       (a) an inquiry by any Inquiry Committee, Complaints
            Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal, Health Committee or
            Interim Orders Committee;

       (b) a review by any Review Committee; or

       (c) a prosecution for an offence.

 (2) A person to whom this section applies must not disclose any
information contained in any document that may have come to the
person’s knowledge in the course of a performance assessment or
fitness assessment under section 52 or 53 unless the disclosure is
made —

       (a) under or for the purpose of administering or enforcing this
            Act or the Infectious Diseases Act 1976*; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            100

      (b) for any other purpose with the consent of the person to
           whom the information relates.

                                               [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

(3) This section applies to —

(a) a member of a Performance Assessment Panel or Fitness
     Assessment Panel;

(b) an investigator appointed under section 60A to carry out an
     investigation under this Part;

          (c) a member of any Inquiry Committee, Complaints
              Committee, Review Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal,
              Health Committee or Interim Orders Committee; and

(d) a member or an officer or an agent, of the Medical Council
     or Disciplinary Commission.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                                    PART 8

                                  GENERAL

Application of funds of Medical Council, etc.

 60.—(1) All fees, penalties and other moneys payable to the
Medical Council under this Act that are not paid are recoverable as a
debt due to the Medical Council.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) Subject to subsection (2A), all fees and other moneys (other
than penalties) collected or recovered by the Medical Council under
this Act must be paid to the Medical Council.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2A) All penalties collected or recovered under this Act must be
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (3) The costs and expenses of and incidental to the performance of
the functions of the Medical Council, the Complaints Committees,
the Disciplinary Tribunals, the Health Committee and any other
committee appointed by the Medical Council under this Act must be
paid by the Medical Council out of its funds.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
101  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (4) The Minister may pay into the funds of the Medical Council
such sum of money out of moneys to be provided by Parliament as the
Minister may determine.

 (4A) The Medical Council may invest moneys belonging to its
funds in accordance with the standard investment power of statutory
bodies as defined in section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Investigators

 60A.—(1) The Medical Council may, in writing, appoint a member
or an employee of the Medical Council, a public officer or any other
person as an investigator, subject to such conditions and limitations as
the Medical Council may specify —

       (a) to investigate the commission of an offence under this Act;
            or

       (b) to carry out an investigation under Part 7.

 (2) An investigator may, for the purposes of subsection (1) —

       (a) by order in writing require any person —

               (i) to furnish any information within that person’s
                   knowledge; or

                                                                                                        [S 759/2022]

              (ii) to produce any book, document, paper or other
                   record, or any article or thing which may be in that
                   person’s custody or possession and which may be
                   related to or be connected with the subject matter of
                   the investigation for inspection by the investigator
                   and for making copies thereof, or to provide copies
                   of such book, document, paper or other record,

       (a) and may, if necessary, further require such person to attend
            at a specified time and place for the purpose of complying
            with sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii);

                                                                                                        [S 759/2022]

       (b) by order in writing require the attendance before the
            investigator of any person who, from any information

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            102

          given or otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the facts
          and circumstances of the matter under investigation;

          (c) examine orally any person apparently acquainted with the
              facts and circumstances of the matter under investigation,
              and to reduce into writing the answer given or statement
              made by that person who is bound to state truly the facts
              and circumstances with which that person is acquainted,
              and the statement made by that person must be read over to
              that person and must, after correction, be signed by that
              person; and

(d) without warrant enter, inspect and search during regular
     business hours any premises which are used or proposed to
     be used, or in respect of which there is reasonable cause to
     believe are being used by the registered medical
     practitioner who is under investigation to carry out the
     practice of medicine and may —

          (i) inspect and make copies of and take extracts from, or
              require the registered medical practitioner or the
              person having the management or control of the
              premises to provide copies of or extracts from, any
              book, document, record or electronic material
              relating to the affairs of the premises or the
              facilities or services provided or the practices or
              procedures being carried out at the premises;

          (ii) inspect any apparatus, appliance, equipment or
               instrument used or found on the premises;

          (iii) inspect, test, examine, take and remove any
                chemical, pharmaceutical or any other substance
                found on the premises;

          (iv) inspect, test, examine, take and remove any
               container, article or other thing that the investigator
               reasonably believes to contain or to have contained
               any chemical, pharmaceutical or any other substance
               found on the premises;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
103  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

     (v) inspect any test or procedure performed or carried
          out on the premises;

     (vi) take such photographs or video recording as the
          investigator thinks necessary to record the premises
          or part of the premises, including any apparatus,
          appliance, equipment, instrument, article, book,
          document or record found on the premises; and

     (vii) seize and remove from the premises any book,
           record, document, apparatus, equipment, instrument,
           material, chemical, pharmaceutical or any other
           substance which the investigator reasonably
           believes to be the subject matter of, or to be
           connected with, an investigation under
           subsection (1)(a) or (b).

(3) Any person who, without lawful excuse —

     (a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
          investigator in the exercise of any power under
          subsection (2); or

     (b) fails to comply with any requisition or order of an
          investigator under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (4) In this section, “record” includes the medical record of any
person.

Proceedings conducted by officers of Medical Council

 61. Despite the provisions of any written law, a legal officer of the
Medical Council who has been admitted as an advocate and solicitor
under the Legal Profession Act 1966* may —

       (a) appear in any proceedings under this Act or any other civil
            proceedings involving the Medical Council in the
            performance of its functions or duties under any written
            law; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            104

(b) make and do all acts and applications in respect of any
     proceedings under this Act or any other civil proceedings,
     on behalf of the Medical Council.

                                                                    [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                                      [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

Fraudulent registration

 62. Any person who —

       (a) procures or attempts to procure registration or a certificate
            of registration as a medical practitioner or a practising
            certificate under this Act by knowingly making or
            producing or causing to be made or produced any false
            or fraudulent declaration, certificate, application or
            representation, whether in writing or otherwise;

       (b) wilfully makes or causes to be made any false entry in any
            register maintained under this Act;

       (c) forges or alters any certificate of registration as a medical
            practitioner or any practising certificate issued under this
            Act;

       (d) fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any certificate
            of registration as a medical practitioner or any practising
            certificate which the person knows or has reason to believe
            is forged or altered; or

       (e) buys, sells or fraudulently obtains a certificate of
            registration as a medical practitioner or any practising
            certificate issued under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Medical practitioner not to practise during suspension from
practice

 63.—(1) A registered medical practitioner whose registration in the
appropriate register is suspended under Part 7 must not practise
medicine or act as a medical practitioner during his suspension.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
105  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

 (2) Any registered medical practitioner who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Medical practitioner to use only qualifications entered in
register and approved title, etc.

 64.—(1) A registered medical practitioner must not —

       (a) use or exhibit or publish in any card, letter, stationery,
            nameplate, signboard, placard, circular, handbill or any
            notice displayed at the premises used by him for the
            practice of medicine any qualification other than the
            qualifications which are entered in any register kept under
            this Act or which has been approved by the Medical
            Council; or

       (b) use any title, addition or designation other than the title,
            addition or designation which has been approved by the
            Medical Council.

 (2) Any registered medical practitioner who contravenes
subsection (1) may be subject to disciplinary proceedings under
this Act.

False assumption of title of specialist or family physician

 65.—(1) A registered medical practitioner who is not registered
under section 22 as a specialist in a branch of medicine must not —

       (a) practise medicine or that branch of medicine under the
            style or title of a specialist in that branch of medicine, or
            under any name, title, addition or description implying that
            he is such a specialist or has any degree, qualification or
            experience in that branch of medicine; or

       (b) advertise or hold himself out as a specialist in that branch
            of medicine.

 (1A) A registered medical practitioner who is not registered under
section 22A as a family physician must not —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            106

(a) practise under any name, title, addition or description
     implying that he is registered under that section as a family
     physician or has any degree, qualification or experience
     that could make him eligible for such registration; or

(b) advertise or hold himself out as being registered as a family
     physician.

 (2) A registered medical practitioner who contravenes
subsection (1) or (1A) may be subject to disciplinary proceedings
under this Act.

Deemed public servants

 65A.—(1) The following persons are each taken to be a public
servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871* in relation to his
performance of any function or duty under this Act:

       (a) the chairman of the Complaints Panel;

       (b) the President of the Disciplinary Commission;

       (c) any member of —

               (i) the Medical Council;

              (ii) the Disciplinary Commission;

             (iii) any Inquiry Committee, Complaints Committee,
                   Review Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal, Health
                   Committee or Interim Orders Committee; and

             (iv) any other committee appointed by the Medical
                   Council or the Disciplinary Commission under this
                   Act;

       (d) any employee of the Medical Council or the Disciplinary
            Commission, or any other person acting under the direction
            of the Medical Council or the Disciplinary Commission.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (2) For the purposes of sections 193 and 228 of the Penal Code
1871*, “judicial proceeding” is taken to include any proceedings
before an Inquiry Committee, a Complaints Committee, a Review

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
107  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

Committee, a Disciplinary Tribunal, a Health Committee or an
Interim Orders Committee.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

General exemption

 65B.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Medical
Council, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person or class of
persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either generally
or in a particular case and subject to such conditions as the Minister
may impose.

 (2) This section does not affect section 66.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Exemption for ships’ surgeons

 66. All ships’ surgeons while in discharge of their duties relating to
the treatment of cabin crew and passengers on board are —

       (a) exempted from registration and from compliance with
            section 13 relating to practising certificate; and

       (b) entitled to all the privileges of registered medical
            practitioners under this Act.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Composition of offences

 66A.—(1) The Medical Council may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one‑half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Medical Council may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations to prescribe the offences which may be
compounded.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            108

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Duty of medical practitioner to inform Medical Council of
medical practitioners who are unfit to practise

 67.—(1) A registered medical practitioner who treats or attends to
another registered medical practitioner who is, in the opinion of the
medical practitioner treating or attending to him, unfit to practise
medicine by reason of his mental or physical condition must inform
the Medical Council accordingly.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) Any registered medical practitioner who fails to comply with
subsection (1) may be subject to disciplinary proceedings under this
Act.

Protection from personal liability

 68. No liability shall lie against —

       (a) the chairman of the Complaints Panel;

       (b) the President of the Disciplinary Commission;

       (c) any member of —

               (i) the Medical Council;

              (ii) the Disciplinary Commission;

             (iii) any Inquiry Committee, Complaints Committee,
                   Review Committee, Disciplinary Tribunal, Health
                   Committee or Interim Orders Committee; and

             (iv) any other committee appointed by the Medical
                   Council or the Disciplinary Commission under this
                   Act; or

       (d) any employee of the Medical Council or the Disciplinary
            Commission, or any other person acting under the direction
            of the Medical Council or the Disciplinary Commission,

for anything which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be
done, in good faith and with reasonable care in the exercise or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
109  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

purported exercise of any power or the performance or purported
performance of any function under this Act.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Power to amend, vary, rescind, revoke or suspend condition or
restriction

 68A. To avoid doubt, the power of the Medical Council to impose a
condition or restriction under Parts 4, 5 and 5A includes, unless the
contrary intention appears, the power to amend, vary, rescind, revoke
or suspend such condition or restriction.

Service of documents

 68B.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

       (e) [Deleted by Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            110

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
     authorised representative, of the partnership;

                                                                    [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address; or

                                                                    [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

(c) [Deleted by Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association or the limited
     liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

                                                                    [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

(c) [Deleted by Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

      (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
           corporate or unincorporated association.

                                                                             [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) [Deleted by Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
111  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

     (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
         after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
         undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

     “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
        than a limited liability partnership), means any person
        authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
        partnership;

                                                                            [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

     “business address” means —

     (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
          last known place of business in Singapore; or

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
          liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
          last known place of business in Singapore;

     “document” includes a direction, order or notice permitted or
        required by or under this Act to be served on a person;

                                                                            [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

     “last email address” means the last email address given by the
        addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
        document as the email address for the service of documents
        under this Act;

     “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
        place of residence in Singapore.

                       [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            112

Jurisdiction of court

 69. A Magistrate’s Court or a District Court has jurisdiction to hear
and determine all offences under this Act and, despite anything to the
contrary in the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, has power to impose
the full penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

Regulations

 70.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Medical Council
may, with the approval of the Minister, make such regulations as may
be necessary or expedient to give effect to the provisions and
purposes of this Act and for the due administration of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Medical Council may, with
the approval of the Minister, make regulations —

       (a) prescribing the time, place and procedure for the election
            of members of the Medical Council;

       (b) regulating the grant and renewal of practising certificates,
            including prescribing conditions for such grant and
            renewal, and the reinstatement of practising certificates
            cancelled under the Act;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

       (c) regulating the registration of medical practitioners;

       (d) prescribing the procedure of any committee appointed by
            the Medical Council under this Act and the conduct of any
            proceedings by such committee;

       (e) enabling the Health Committee and an Interim Orders
            Committee to order discovery or inspection of documents
            for the purpose of any proceedings before them;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

      (ea) prescribing that a registered medical practitioner in respect
            of whom an interim suspension order or an interim
            restriction order has been made is, if he so requires,
            entitled to be heard by the Interim Orders Committee on
            each occasion the Committee reviews the order, and may
            be represented by counsel at each review;

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
113  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

     (eb) prescribing the procedure for the withdrawal of charges by
           the Medical Council in any proceedings under Part 7;

                                                                           [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

       (f) regulating the professional practice, etiquette, conduct and
           discipline of registered medical practitioners, except in
           relation to the proceedings of a Disciplinary Tribunal;

                                                                           [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

      (g) prescribing the forms necessary for the administration of
           this Act;

     (h) regulating the removal and restoration of names in any
          register kept under this Act;

     (i) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

     (j) prescribing the fees including, in the case of a practising
         certificate under this Act, a late application fee for late
         applications and other charges for the purposes of this Act;

     (k) prescribing the penalties for failure to comply with the
         provisions of this Act; and

     (l) generally providing for such other matters as may be
         necessary or expedient for carrying out the provisions of
         this Act.

 (3) Regulations made under this Act may make different provisions
for different classes of persons and different circumstances.

Rules relating to Disciplinary Commission and Disciplinary
Tribunals

 70A. The Minister may make rules —

       (a) to provide for matters relating to the Disciplinary
            Commission; and

       (b) to regulate the practice and procedure of Disciplinary
            Tribunals, including enabling Disciplinary Tribunals to
            order discovery or inspection of documents for the purpose
            of any proceedings before them.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            114

Amendment of Schedules

 71.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Medical
Council, by order amend the First or Second Schedule.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such saving or transitional provision as may be necessary or
expedient.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

                                    PART 9

           SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Persons who are already registered

 72.—(1) Every person who is registered under the provisions of the
repealed Medical Registration Act (Cap. 174, 1985 Revised Edition)
(called in this Part the repealed Act) immediately before 3 April 1998
is upon that date deemed to be a registered medical practitioner under
the provisions of this Act.

 (2) The Registrar is to —

       (a) transfer to Part I of the Register of Medical Practitioners
            the names, addresses, qualifications and any other
            particulars of all medical practitioners registered
            pursuant to section 9(1)(a) of the repealed Act which
            appear, immediately before 3 April 1998, in the register
            kept under that Act;

       (b) transfer to Part II of the Register of Medical Practitioners
            the names, addresses, qualifications and any other
            particulars of all medical practitioners registered
            pursuant to section 9(1)(b) and (c) of the repealed Act
            which appear, immediately before 3 April 1998, in the
            register kept under that Act;

       (c) transfer to the Register of Provisionally Registered
            Medical Practitioners the names, addresses,
            qualifications and any other particulars of all persons
            provisionally registered pursuant to section 13 of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
115  Medical Registration Act 1997                            2020 Ed.

     repealed Act which appear, immediately before 3 April
     1998, in the Register of Provisional Medical Registration
     kept under that Act; and

     (d) transfer to the Register of Temporarily Registered Medical
          Practitioners the names, addresses, qualifications and any
          other particulars of persons registered for a limited period
          pursuant to section 9(3) of the repealed Act which appear,
          immediately before 3 April 1998, in the register kept under
          that Act.

 (3) In transferring the names under subsection (2), the Registrar
may omit the names of any person known to the Registrar to be
deceased.

(4) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022]

Pending disciplinary proceedings

 73.—(1) This Act does not apply to any inquiry, investigation or
other proceedings of a disciplinary nature commenced before 3 April
1998 and the repealed Act continues to apply to that inquiry,
investigation or proceedings as if this Act had not been enacted.

 (2) Where on 3 April 1998 any matter is in the course of being
investigated by the Preliminary Proceedings Committee, the
Preliminary Proceedings Committee continues to exist to complete
the investigation and may make such order, ruling or direction as it
could have made under the powers conferred upon it by the repealed
Act.

 (3) Any order, ruling or direction made or given by the Medical
Council pursuant to the repealed Act is treated as an order, a ruling or
a direction under this Act and has the same force and effect as if it had
been made or given by the Medical Council pursuant to the powers
vested in the Medical Council under this Act.

 (4) Nothing in this section is taken as prejudicing section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.  Medical Registration Act 1997                            116

Term of office of member appointed or elected to take place of
existing member

 74.—(1) Despite section 4(2), a person appointed or elected after
24 January 2003 as a member of the Medical Council to take the place
of a member of the Medical Council who was appointed or elected
before that date and whose term of office has expired, holds office for
a term that is determined by the Minister by order in the Gazette.

 (2) The Minister may determine a term of office that is at least
6 months and not more than 40 months.

Transitional provisions

 75.—(1) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2020 wef 01/07/2022&#93;

 (2) Despite sections 20, 21 and 23, the Minister may, subject to such
conditions as the Minister may determine, by regulations exempt any
person or person within a class of persons who, at any time on or
before 24 January 2003, was engaged as a house officer, or in such
other similar capacity as may be approved by the Medical Council, in
a hospital or an institution approved by the Medical Council under
section 25, from the requirement that the person must —

       (a) in the case of section 20(1), hold a certificate of
            experience;

       (b) in the case of section 20(2), 21(1) or 23, comply with
            section 26; or

       (c) in the case of section 21(2), hold a certificate referred to in
            paragraph (b) of that subsection,

before the person may be registered.

                          FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                    Sections 2, 20(1A) and 71

                               SINGAPORE DEGREE
1. Licentiate in medicine and surgery of the King Edward VII College of

   Medicine, Singapore.
2. Degree in medicine and surgery of the University of Malaya in Singapore.
3. Degree in medicine and surgery of the University of Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
117                   Medical Registration Act 1997                 2020 Ed.

                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

4. Degree in medicine and surgery of the Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine
   (formerly known as the Faculty of Medicine), National University of
   Singapore.

5. Doctor of Medicine of the Duke-NUS Medical School Singapore (formerly
   known as the Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore).

                                                                                  [S 31/2026 wef 01/02/2026]

6. Degree in medicine and surgery of the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine,
   Nanyang Technological University — Imperial College London.

                                                                                                    [S 404/2014]

7. Degree in medicine and surgery of the Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine,
   Nanyang Technological University.

                                                                                  [S 31/2026 wef 01/02/2026]

                         SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                               Sections 21(1) and (3) and 71

     LIST OF REGISTRABLE BASIC MEDICAL QUALIFICATIONS

First column .        Second column                 . Third column

Country or region     Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications

Australia          .  1. Australian National        . MB BS, MChD

                      University, School of

                      Medicine and Psychology

                      2. Monash University,          MB BS, MD
                         Faculty of Medicine,
                         Nursing and Health
                         Sciences

                      3. The University of           MB BS, BMedSt/MD
                         Adelaide, Faculty of
                         Health and Medical
                         Sciences

                      4. The University of           MB BS, MD
                         Melbourne, Melbourne
                         Medical School

                      5. The University of           MB BS, Doctor of
                         Queensland, School of       Medicine AQF
                         Medicine                    Level 9 Masters
                                                     (Extended)

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.           Medical Registration Act 1997                    118

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications
Austria
Belgium            6. The University of           MB BS, MD
Canada                Sydney, Sydney Medical
                      School

                   7. The University of           MB BS, MD
                      Western Australia, UWA
                      Medical School

                   8. University of New South     MB BS, BMed MD,
                      Wales, Faculty of           MD
                      Medicine and Health

                   9. University of Newcastle,    BMed, BMedSc/MD
                      School of Medicine and
                      Public Health

                   10. Adelaide University,       MB BS, BMedSt/MD
                        College of Health

                   1. Medizinische Universitat Dr.med.univ.
                      Wien

                   1. Katholieke Universiteit     Arts (Physician)
                      Leuven, Faculteit
                      Geneeskunde

                   1. McGill University,          MD, CM
                      Faculty of Medicine and
                      Health Sciences

                   2. McMaster University,        MD

                   Michael G. DeGroote

                   School of Medicine

                   3. Université de Montréal, MD
                      Faculté de Médecine

                   4. University of Alberta,      MD

                   Faculty of Medicine and

                   Dentistry

                   5. University of British       MD

                   Columbia, Faculty of

                   Medicine

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
119                Medical Registration Act 1997                 2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications
Denmark
Finland            6. University of Calgary,      MD
France
Germany            Cumming School of

Hong Kong          Medicine
Special
Administrative     7. University of Toronto,      MD
Region, People’s
Republic of        Temerty Faculty of
China
                   Medicine

                   1. Aarhus Universitet,         Candidatus
                      Faculty of Health           Medicinae

                   1. University of Helsinki,     Licenciate in
                      Faculty of Medicine         Medicine

                   1. Sorbonne Université,        Docteur en Medecine
                      Faculté de Santé

                   1. Charité-                    Zeugnis über die
                      Universitätsmedizin         Ärztliche Prüfung
                      Berlin, Medizinische
                      Fakultät

                   2. Ludwig-Maximilians-         Zeugnis über die
                      Universität, München        Ärztliche Prüfung
                      Medizinische Fakultät

                   3. Ruprecht-Karls-             Zeugnis über die
                      Universität Heidelberg,     Ärztliche Prüfung
                      Medizinische Fakultät
                      Heidelberg

                   1. The Chinese University      MB ChB
                      of Hong Kong, Faculty of
                      Medicine

                   2. The University of Hong      MB BS
                      Kong, Li Ka Shing
                      Faculty of Medicine

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.           Medical Registration Act 1997                   120

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
India              Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications

Ireland            1. All India Institute of      MB BS
                      Medical Sciences, New
Japan                 Delhi

                   2. Christian Medical           MB BS
                      College, Vellore

                   3. Manipal Academy of          MB BS
                      Higher Education,
                      Kasturba Medical
                      College, Manipal

                   1. The University of Dublin,   MB BCh BAO
                      Trinity College Dublin,
                      School of Medicine

                   2. University College          MB BCh BAO
                      Cork — National
                      University of Ireland,
                      School of Medicine

                   3. University College          MB BCh BAO
                      Dublin — National
                      University of Ireland,
                      School of Medicine

                   4. Royal College of            MB BCh BAO
                      Surgeons in Ireland —
                      National University of
                      Ireland, School of
                      Medicine

                   5. University of Galway,       MB BCh BAO
                      School of Medicine

                   1. Kyoto University, Faculty Igaku (Bachelor of

                   of Medicine                    Medicine)

                   2. Osaka University, Faculty Igaku (Bachelor of

                   of Medicine                    Medicine)

                   3. The University of Tokyo, Igaku (Bachelor of

                   School of Medicine             Medicine)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
121                Medical Registration Act 1997              2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
Malaysia           Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications

Netherlands        1. Universiti Kebangsaan       Doktor Perubatan
                      Malaysia (Kuala
New Zealand           Lumpur), Faculty of
                      Medicine
Pakistan
People’s           2. Universiti Malaya (Kuala    MB BS
Republic of           Lumpur), Faculty of
China                 Medicine

                   3. Universiti Sains            MD

                   Malaysia, School of

                   Medical Sciences

                   1. Erasmus University          Arts

                   Rotterdam, Erasmus

                   University Medical

                   Center (Erasmus MC)

                   2. Leiden University, Leiden Arts
                      University Medical
                      Center (LUMC)

                   3. University of               Arts

                   Amsterdam, Academic

                   Medical Center (AMC)

                   4. Utrecht University,         Arts, MSc (Medicine)
                      Faculty of Medicine -
                      UMC Utrecht

                   1. The University of           MB ChB
                      Auckland, Faculty of
                      Medical and Health
                      Sciences

                   2. University of Otago,        MB ChB
                      Otago Medical School

                   1. The Aga Khan University MB BS
                      Medical College

                   1. Fudan University,           Doctor of Medicine
                      Shanghai Medical
                      College

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.           Medical Registration Act 1997                   122

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications
South Korea
Spain              2. Peking University Health Master of Medicine,
Sweden                Science Centre (PUHSC) Doctor of Medicine
Switzerland
                   3. Shanghai Jiao Tong          Doctor of Medicine
                      University, School of
                      Medicine

                   4. Tsinghua University,        Doctor of Medicine
                      Peking Union Medical
                      College (PUMC)

                   5. Tsinghua University,        MD (Eight‑Year
                      School of Medicine          Medical
                                                  Experimental Class),
                                                  MD (Outstanding
                                                  Physician‑Scientist
                                                  Program)

                   1. Seoul National              Eui-haksa
                      University, College of
                      Medicine

                   2. Yonsei University,          Eui-haksa, Euimoo-
                      College of Medicine         suksa
                      (Seoul)

                   1. Universitat de Barcelona,   Licenciado en
                      Facultat de Medicina i      Medicina y Cirugia,
                      Ciències de la Salut        Grau en Medicina

                   1. Karolinska Institutet       Läkarexamen

                   2. Lunds Universitet,          Läkarexamen
                      Medicinska Fakulteten

                   3. Uppsala Universitet,        Läkarexamen
                      Medicinska Fakulteten

                   1. Universitat Basel,          Diplome Federal
                      Medizinische Fakultat

                   2. Universitat Bern,           Diplome Federal
                      Medizinische Fakultat

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
123                Medical Registration Act 1997              2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications
Taiwan
United Kingdom     3. Universitat Zurich,         Diplome Federal
                      Medizinische Fakultat

                   4. Université de Genève,       Diplôme Fédéral de
                      Faculté de Médecine         Médecine

                   1. National Taiwan             Doctor of Medicine
                      University, College of
                      Medicine (Taipei)

                   1. Cardiff University,         MB BCh
                      School of Medicine

                   2. Imperial College London, MB BS
                      School of Medicine

                   3. The University of           MB ChB
                      Edinburgh, Edinburgh
                      Medical School

                   4. The University of           MB ChB
                      Manchester, Faculty of
                      Biology, Medicine and
                      Health

                   5. The University of           MB ChB
                      Sheffield, School of
                      Medicine and Population
                      Health

                   6. University of               MB ChB
                      Birmingham, College of
                      Medical and Dental
                      Sciences

                   7. University of Bristol,      MB ChB
                      Bristol Medical School

                   8. University of Cambridge,    MB BChir
                      School of Clinical
                      Medicine

                   9. University of Dundee,       MB ChB
                      School of Medicine

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.           Medical Registration Act 1997                    124

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                    . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications     Qualifications

                   10. University of Glasgow,       MB ChB
                        School of Medicine,
                        Dentistry and Nursing

                   11. University of Leicester, MB ChB
                        Leicester Medical School

                   12. University of Liverpool,     MB ChB
                        School of Medicine

                   13. University of London,        MB BS
                        King’s College London,
                        GKT School of Medical
                        Education

                   14. University of London,        MB BS
                        Queen Mary University
                        of London, Barts and The
                        London School of
                        Medicine and Dentistry

                   15. University of London,        MB BS
                        St. George’s University of
                        London, St. George’s
                        Hospital Medical School

                   16. University of London,        MB BS
                        University College
                        London, UCL Medical
                        School

                   17. University of                BMBS
                        Nottingham, School of
                        Medicine

                   18. University of Oxford,        BM BCh
                        Medical Sciences
                        Division

                   19. University of                BM, BM BS
                        Southampton, Faculty of
                        Medicine

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
125                Medical Registration Act 1997              2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications
United States of
America            20. The Queen’s University     MB ChB,
                        of Belfast, School of     MB BCh BAO
                        Medicine, Dentistry and
                        Biomedical Sciences

                   21. University of Aberdeen,    MB ChB
                        School of Medicine,
                        Medical Sciences and
                        Nutrition

                   22. University of Leeds,       MB ChB
                        School of Medicine

                   23. University of Newcastle    MB BS
                        upon Tyne, Faculty of
                        Medical Sciences

                   24. University of Warwick, MB ChB
                        Warwick Medical School

                   25. City St George’s,          MB BS
                        University of London,
                        School of Health &
                        Medical Sciences

                   26. University of Exeter,      BMBS
                        Faculty of Health and
                        Life Sciences

                   1. Baylor College of           MD

                   Medicine

                   2. Boston University,          MD

                   Chobanian & Avedisian

                   School of Medicine

                   3. Columbia University,        MD

                   Vagelos College of

                   Physicians and Surgeons

                   4. Duke University, School MD
                      of Medicine

                   5. Emory University, School MD
                      of Medicine

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.           Medical Registration Act 1997                   126

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications

                   6. Geisel School of            MD

                   Medicine at Dartmouth

                   7. Harvard Medical School MD

                   8. Icahn School of Medicine MD
                      at Mount Sinai

                   9. Johns Hopkins               MD

                   University, School of

                   Medicine

                   10. Keck School of Medicine MD
                        of the University of
                        Southern California

                   11. Mayo Clinic Alix School MD
                        of Medicine

                   12. New York University,       MD

                   Grossman School of

                   Medicine

                   13. Northwestern University, MD
                        The Feinberg School of
                        Medicine

                   14. Stanford University,       MD

                   School of Medicine

                   15. The Ohio State             MD

                   University, College of

                   Medicine

                   16. The Warren Alpert          MD

                   Medical School of Brown

                   University (formerly

                   known as Brown Medical

                   School)

                   17. University of California, MD
                        Los Angeles, David
                        Geffen School of
                        Medicine

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
127                Medical Registration Act 1997              2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications

                   18. University of California, MD
                        San Diego, School of
                        Medicine

                   19. University of California, MD
                        San Francisco, School of
                        Medicine

                   20. University of Chicago,     MD

                   Pritzker School of

                   Medicine

                   21. University of Michigan, MD
                        Medical School (Ann
                        Arbor)

                   22. University of North        MD

                   Carolina at Chapel Hill,

                   School of Medicine

                   23. University of              MD

                   Pennsylvania, Perelman

                   School of Medicine

                   24. University of Pittsburgh, MD
                        School of Medicine

                   25. University of              MD

                   Washington, School of

                   Medicine (Seattle)

                   26. University of Wisconsin, MD
                        School of Medicine and
                        Public Health (Madison)

                   27. Vanderbilt University,     MD

                   School of Medicine

                   28. Washington University in MD
                        St Louis, School of
                        Medicine

                   29. Weill Cornell Medicine MD

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
2020 Ed.           Medical Registration Act 1997                   128

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

  First column .   Second column                 . Third column
Country or region
                   Body Granting Qualifications   Qualifications

                   30. Yale School of Medicine MD

                                                  [S 31/2026 wef 01/02/2026]
                                                 [S 857/2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                                                    [S 613/2019]
                                                 [S 722/2022 wef 01/09/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
        LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
MEDICAL REGISTRATION ACT 1997

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 5 of 1997 — Medical Registration Act 1997

Date of First Reading     : 2 June 1997
                                (Bill No. 2/97 published on 3 June
                                1997)

Date of Second and Third  : 25 August 1997
Readings

Date of commencement      : 3 April 1998

2. 1998 Revised Edition — Medical Registration Act

Date of operation         : 30 May 1998

3. Act 28 of 2000 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                          2000

Date of First Reading     : 25 August 2000
                                (Bill No. 22/2000 published on
                                26 August 2000)

Date of Second and Third  : 9 October 2000
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2000

4. G. N. No. S 536/2001 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                   Schedule) Order 2001

Date of commencement      : 26 October 2001

5. Act 46 of 2002 — Medical Registration (Amendment) Act 2002

Date of First Reading     : 25 November 2002
                                (Bill No. 47/2002 published on
                                26 November 2002)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 December 2002
Readings

Date of commencement      : 24 January 2003

6. G. N. No. S 122/2003 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                   Schedule) Order 2003

Date of commencement      : 14 March 2003

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
                          ii

7. 2004 Revised Edition — Medical Registration Act

Date of operation         : 31 July 2004

8. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005

Date of First Reading     : 17 October 2005
                                (Bill No. 30/2005 published on
                                18 October 2005)

Date of Second and Third  : 21 November 2005
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2006 (Item (14) of the Fifth
                                Schedule)

9. G. N. No. S 178/2006 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                   Schedule) Order 2006

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2006

10. G. N. No. S 440/2006 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                     Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2006

Date of commencement      : 1 August 2006

11. G. N. No. S 138/2007 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                     Schedule) Order 2007

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2007

12. G. N. No. S 525/2007 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                     Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2007

Date of commencement      : 1 October 2007

13. G. N. No. S 183/2009 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                     Schedule) Order 2009

Date of commencement      : 29 April 2009

14. G. N. No. S 521/2009 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                     Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2009

Date of commencement      : 30 October 2009

15. Act 1 of 2010 — Medical Registration (Amendment) Act 2010

Date of First Reading     : 19 October 2009
                                (Bill No. 22/2009 published on
                                19 October 2009)

Date of Second and Third  : 11 January 2010
Readings

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
                          iii

Date of commencement      : 10 August 2010
                                1 December 2010
                                1 July 2011
                                1 July 2012

16. G. N. No. S 455/2012 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of
                                     Schedule) Order 2012

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2010
                                15 September 2012

17. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012

Date of First Reading     : 21 November 2011
                                (Bill No. 22/2011 published on
                                21 November 2011)

Date of Second and Third  : 18 January 2012
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2012

18. G. N. No. S 404/2014 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of First
                                     and Second Schedules) Order 2014

Date of commencement      : 2 June 2014

19. 2014 Revised Edition — Medical Registration Act (Chapter 174)

Date of operation         : 31 December 2014

20. G.N. No. S 252/2016 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of Second
                                   Schedule) Order 2016

Date of commencement      : 1 June 2016

21. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 6 November 2017 (Bill No. 45/2017
                                published on 6 November 2017)

Date of Second and Third  : 8 January 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2018

22. G.N. No. S 613/2019 — Medical Registration Act (Amendment of Second
                                   Schedule) Order 2019

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2020

23. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019 (Bill No. 32/2019
                                published on 7 October 2019)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
                          iv

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

24. 2020 Revised Edition — Medical Registration Act 1997

Date of operation         : 31 December 2021

25. G.N. No. S 759/2022 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of
                                    Acts) (No. 2) Order 2022

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

Publication               : 26 September 2022

26. Act 33 of 2021 — Judicial Service (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 4 October 2021
                                (Bill No. 30/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 November 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 14 January 2022
                                1 July 2022

27. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 26 July 2021
                                (Bill No. 18/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2022
                                1 July 2022

28. Act 34 of 2020 — Medical Registration (Amendment) Act 2020

Date of First Reading     : 3 September 2020
                                (Bill No. 30/2020)

Date of Second and Third  : 6 October 2020
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2022

29. G.N. No. S 722/2022 — Medical Registration Act 1997 (Amendment of
                                    Second Schedule) Order 2022

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2022

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
                      v

30. Act 11 of 2023 — Healthcare Services (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2023

First Reading         : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2023

Commencement          : 1 May 2023

31. G.N. No. S 857/2024 — Medical Registration Act 1997 (Amendment of
                                    Second Schedule) Order 2024

Date of commencement  : 1 January 2025

32. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill                  : 9/2025

First Reading         : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement          : 5 December 2025

33. G.N. No. S 31/2026 — Medical Registration Act 1997 (Amendment of
                                   Schedules) Order 2026

Date of commencement  : 1 February 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
.                                 vi
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
MEDICAL REGISTRATION ACT 1997

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.                   2014 Ed.
—                           11—(4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                           60—(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/2/2026
