         LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE ACT 2021

         (No. 11 of 2021)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “chargeable consent”
     2.  Meanings of “material interest” and “owner”
     3.  Purpose of Act
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                        LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE

 6. Land betterment charge is tax
 7. Tax is on increase in value of land
 8. Leviable increase in value of land
 9. Ascertaining amount of land betterment charge
10. Valuation method
11. Table of Rates method

                                        PART 3

                         CONCESSIONS AND RELIEF

12. General exemption
13. Concessionary relief for planning objectives
14. Remission

                                        PART 4
                                      LIABILITY

                           Division 1 — Taxable persons
15. Who is liable to pay land betterment charge
16. Assumed liability
17. Apportionment of liability according to material interests

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
2  NO. 11 OF 2021

Section
   18. Joint liability
   19. Interests held on trust

                        Division 2 — Deferment determinations

   20. Deferment of liability by deferment determination
   21. Effect of deferment determination
   22. Cancelling deferment determination
   23. Transfer of deferred liability

                                            PART 5

                         ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION

   24. When land betterment charge is payable
   25. Liability order
   26. When liability order must be given
   27. Revised liability order
   28. Valuation method process
   29. Liability order, etc., ceases to have effect when land betterment

            charge is fully paid
   30. Payment of land betterment charge short levied, etc.

                                            PART 6

                              RECOVERY AND EVASION

                                  Division 1 — Recovery

   31. Recovery of land betterment charge
   32. Action to recover may be taken any time
   33. Priority of case in insolvency
   34. Contribution between taxable persons jointly liable
   35. Contribution by tenants or occupiers
   36. Land betterment charge to be first charge on land
   37. Overpayment

                          Division 2 — Default and penalty tax

   38. Interest in case of default
   39. Penalty tax payable where illegal development, etc., carried out
   40. Rectification order
   41. Amount of penalty tax
   42. Reduction in penalty tax for voluntary disclosure, etc.
   43. Increase in penalty tax for concealment

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                                    3

Section
   44. Recovery of penalty tax
   45. Evasion

                                            PART 7

                                           APPEAL

   46. Interpretation of this Part
   47. Appeal to Minister
   48. Appeal does not excuse payment

                                            PART 8

                                    ADMINISTRATION

   49. Administration of Act
   50. Authorised officers
   51. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
   52. Power to obtain information
   53. Power of designated valuer to obtain information
   54. Offences for obstruction, etc.
   55. Authority to issue evidentiary certificates in respect of certain

            matters
   56. Protection from personal liability
   57. Consolidated Fund
   58. Composition of offences
   59. Offences by corporations
   60. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

                                            PART 9

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   61. Interface with other laws
   62. Service of documents
   63. Application to Government, etc.
   64. Regulations by Authority
   65. Regulations for Valuation method and Table of Rates method,

            etc.

                                           PART 10

        AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND FINAL PROVISIONS

   66. Amendments to Planning Act 1998

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
4  NO. 11 OF 2021

Section
   67. Amendments to Singapore Land Authority Act 2001
   68. Saving and transitional provisions

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE  5

An Act to provide for the imposition and collection of a tax on the
  increase in the value of land resulting from a chargeable consent
  given in relation to land, and to make consequential and related
  amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
6  NO. 11 OF 2021

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Land Betterment Charge Act 2021 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appointed day” means the date of commencement of section 6;

      “authorised development”, for any land, means a development
         of the land —

              (a) authorised under —

                     (i) the Planning Act 1998;

                     (ii) the predecessor Act; or

                    (iii) any other written law on planning and land use,
                          which has been at any time in force in
                          Singapore and corresponds to the Planning
                          Act 1998; or

              (b) effected or carried out pursuant to any written
                   approval granted under any written law mentioned
                   in paragraph (a)(iii) before 1 February 1960,

         and includes a development of any land that is deemed
         authorised without express written permission;

      “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision of this Act or its
         subsidiary legislation, means an individual who is appointed
         as an authorised officer under section 50(1) for the purposes
         of that provision;

      “Authority” means the public authority called the Singapore
         Land Authority established by the Singapore Land Authority
         Act 2001;

      “building” includes a structure and a part of a building;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     7

      “chargeable consent” has the meaning given by section 3;

      “charitable institution” means —

              (a) a charity;

              (b) a trust of which all the beneficiaries are charities; or

              (c) a unit trust scheme in which all the unit holders are
                   charities;

      “charitable purposes” and “charity” have the meanings given by
         section 2(1) of the Charities Act 1994;

      “Chief Valuer” means the Chief Valuer appointed under
         section 2A of the State Lands Act 19201, and includes any
         individual authorised by the Chief Valuer to perform the
         functions, or otherwise act on behalf, of the Chief Valuer
         under this Act;

      “competent authority” means any competent authority
         appointed under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 to be
         responsible for the operation of Part 3 of that Act, and
         includes any individual authorised under section 5(2) of that
         Act to perform any of those functions conferred on the
         competent authority;

      “concessional State title” means a State title for any land that —

              (a) is granted with a restrictive covenant binding the
                   owner of the land to refrain from using the land in a
                   particular way, or from developing that land to an
                   intensity —

                     (i) that is lower than the maximum use or
                          maximum intensity allowed under the
                          provisions of the Master Plan in force at the
                          time of granting; or

                     (ii) where the provisions of the Master Plan in
                          force at the time of granting do not prescribe
                          any use or maximum intensity allowed for that
                          land; and

1 Section 2A of the State Lands Act 1920 is to be construed as section 3 of the State Lands Act 1920, according to
 section 20(1) of the Revised Edition of the Laws Act 1983.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
8  NO. 11 OF 2021

           (b) contains an express term binding the owner of the
                land under the State title to pay the Government, and
                entitling the Government to demand, an additional
                premium for the land, if the land is —

                  (i) developed by or on behalf of the owner beyond
                       a particular intensity specified in the State title;
                       or

                  (ii) otherwise used by or on behalf of the owner in a
                       particular way (such as but not limited to strata
                       subdivision) specified in the State title;

   “conduct” means any act or omission, or any series of acts or
      omissions, or both;

   “conservation area” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
      Planning Act 1998;

   “conservation permission” means permission required by
      section 12(2) of the Planning Act 1998 to carry out or
      permit the carrying out of any works within a conservation
      area;

   “controlled activity”, for any land that is the subject of a State
      title, means any of the following conduct:

           (a) to keep and maintain the composition of individuals
                who may be licensed or otherwise allowed by an
                owner of the land to enter and use the land according
                to a composition described in the State title;

           (b) to be or not be a corporation or partnership or an
                unincorporated association the members of which are
                of a composition described in the State title;

           (c) to be or not be a corporation or partnership or an
                unincorporated association the officers of which are
                of a composition described in the State title;

   “controlled activity restrictive covenant”, for any land, means a
      restrictive covenant expressed in a State title for the land,
      binding the owner of the land under the State title to carry on

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     9

   or not to carry on any controlled activity described in the
   State title;

“deemed authorised without express written permission” means
   a development authorised by notification in the Gazette made
   under section 21(6) of the Planning Act 1998;

“deferment determination” means a determination made under
   section 20 and that is in force, and includes so much of a
   deferment determination that is in force after it is cancelled in
   part;

“designated valuer” means the Chief Valuer or an individual
   appointed under section 10(2);

“development” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
   Planning Act 1998;

“development control restrictive covenant”, for any land, means
   a restrictive covenant expressed in a State title for the land,
   binding the owner of the land under the State title to not carry
   out any development of the land described in the State title,
   being a development which does not involve any subdivision
   of the land;

“directly allotted State title” means a State title granted for
   consideration without a tender or an auction;

“engage in conduct” means to do an act or omit to do an act;

“functions” includes powers and duties;

“its subsidiary legislation” means any Regulations, order or
   other subsidiary legislation made under this Act;

“land” means —

        (a) the surface of any defined parcel of the earth in
             Singapore;

        (b) any parcel of airspace or subterranean space within
             Singapore, whether or not held apart from the surface
             of the earth in Singapore; or

        (c) any foreshore in Singapore,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
10  NO. 11 OF 2021

       and includes a space of any shape below, on or above the
       surface of the earth, or partly below and partly above the
       surface of the earth, in Singapore the dimensions of which are
       delineated;

    “land betterment charge” means the tax imposed under section 6
       and calculated in the manner fixed by or under this Act;

    “Land Planning Minister” means the Minister charged with the
       responsibility for land and urban development;

    “liability order” means a liability order given under section 25
       and that has effect;

    “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
       Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “Master Plan” has the meaning given by the Planning Act 1998
       and includes any Certified Interpretation Plan prepared and
       certified by the competent authority under section 7 of that
       Act;

    “material interest” has the meaning given by section 4;

    “occupier”, for any land, includes any person in actual
       occupation of the land or any person having the charge,
       management or control of the land either on the person’s own
       account or as an agent of another person, but does not include
       a lodger;

    “officer” —

            (a) in relation to a corporation, means any director,
                 partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other
                 similar officer of the corporation, and includes —

                   (i) any person purporting to act in any such
                        capacity; and

                   (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
                        its members, any of those members as if the
                        member were a director of the corporation; and

            (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
                 than a partnership), means the president, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     11

             secretary, or any member of the committee of the
             unincorporated association, and includes —

               (i) any person holding a position analogous to that
                    of president, secretary or member of a
                    committee of the unincorporated association;
                    and

               (ii) any person purporting to act in any such
                    capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“penalty tax” means the penalty tax imposed under Division 2 of
   Part 6;

“planning permission” means permission required by
   section 12(1) of the Planning Act 1998 to carry out or
   permit the carrying out of any development of any land
   outside a conservation area;

“predecessor Act”, in relation to the Planning Act 1998, means
   the Planning Act (Cap. 232, 1990 Ed.) repealed by the
   Planning Act 1998;

“provisional permission” means provisional permission granted
   under section 17(1) or 17A(2) of the Planning Act 1998;

                                                                       [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

“public authority” means a body established by or under any
   public Act to perform a public function;

“rectification order” means a rectification order given under
   section 40;

“Regulations” means any regulations made by the Authority
   under section 64, or by the Minister under section 65;

“relevant point in time” has the meaning given by section 8(3)
   and (4);

“restrictive covenant” means a reservation, restriction,
   covenant, an easement or a right in the nature of an
   easement, that is expressed in a State title for any land, and
   binding the owner of the land under the State title —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
12  NO. 11 OF 2021

            (a) to refrain from using the land subject to the State title
                 in a particular way, or from doing a particular thing in
                 relation to that land;

            (b) to not sublet, subdivide or otherwise deal with the
                 land, or part of the land, without the permission of the
                 Authority; or

            (c) to construct, replace or maintain, or limit the type,
                 style or proportion of building materials that may be
                 used in the construction, replacement or maintenance
                 of, any building on that land,

       and includes a controlled activity restrictive covenant, but
       excludes any reservation, restriction, covenant, easement or
       right in the nature of an easement in a State title that is
       imposed or created by or under the provisions of an Act;

    “revised liability order” has the meaning given by section 27;

    “special condition” means a reservation, restriction or covenant
       expressed in a directly allotted State title, requiring the initial
       owner of the land that is the subject of the State title to refrain
       from abandoning or changing the use of the land in a
       particular way, failing which the lessor is entitled to demand
       the surrender of the land;

    “State title” means any of the following issued or granted
       (whenever) in respect of land by or on behalf of the Crown or
       the East India Company, or under the State Lands Act 1920 or
       any written law repealed by that Act:

            (a) any grant in fee simple;

            (b) any grant of an estate in perpetuity;

            (c) any State lease (of whatever tenure),

       but excludes any tenancy or like agreement for a term of less
       than 10 years, and any temporary occupation licence, in
       respect of land;

    “strata subdivision” has the meaning given by section 3(1) of the
       Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     13

“subdivision”, for any land, means the division of the land into
   2 or more parts which can be conveyed, assigned, transferred,
   subleased or otherwise disposed of, and includes a strata
   subdivision of any building after completion of the building
   comprised in a development of the land;

“subdivision control restrictive covenant”, for any land, means a
   restrictive covenant expressed in a State title for the land,
   binding the owner of the land under the State title to not carry
   out any subdivision of the land described in the State title,
   with or without involving any development of the land;

“Table of Rates method” has the meaning given by section 11;

“taxable person” means a person who may be liable under
   section 15(1) for a land betterment charge;

“trustee” includes, in addition to every person appointed or
   constituted trustee by act of parties, by order or declaration of
   a court or by operation of law, any of the following:

        (a) an executor or administrator, a guardian, committee,
             receiver or liquidator;

        (b) every person having or taking upon himself, herself
             or itself the administration or control of land affected
             by any express or implied trust or acting in any
             fiduciary capacity, or having the possession, control
             or management of land of a person under legal or
             other disability;

“unincorporated association” means a society or body
   unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be
   sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
   or body duly appointed for that purpose;

“valuation”, in relation to land, means a determination of an
   amount that is the value of the land made in accordance with
   the provisions of this Act;

“Valuation method” has the meaning given by section 10;

“vary”, in relation to a restrictive covenant, includes to
   extinguish the restrictive covenant;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
14  NO. 11 OF 2021

    “written permission” means a planning permission or
        conservation permission.

(2) In this Act —

    “Charities Act 1994” includes the Charities Act (Cap. 37,
        2007 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title “the
        Charities Act 1994”;

    “Criminal Procedure Code 2010” includes the Criminal
        Procedure Code (Cap. 68, 2012 Ed.) until it is revised and
        citable by the short title “the Criminal Procedure Code 2010”;

    “Interpretation Act 1965” includes the Interpretation Act
        (Cap. 1, 2002 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the
        short title “the Interpretation Act 1965”;

    “Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967” includes the Land Titles (Strata)
        Act (Cap. 158, 2009 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the
        short title “the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967”;

    “Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005” includes the Limited
        Liability Partnerships Act (Cap. 163A, 2006 Ed.) until it is
        revised and citable by the short title “the Limited Liability
        Partnerships Act 2005”;

    “Penal Code 1871” includes the Penal Code (Cap. 224,
        2008 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title
        “the Penal Code 1871”;

    “Planning Act 1998” includes the Planning Act (Cap. 232,
        1998 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title “the
        Planning Act 1998”;

    “Singapore Land Authority Act 2001” includes the Singapore
        Land Authority Act (Cap. 301, 2002 Ed.) until it is revised
        and citable by the short title “the Singapore Land Authority
        Act 2001”;

    “State Lands Act 1920” includes the State Lands Act (Cap. 314,
        1996 Ed.) until it is revised and citable by the short title “the
        State Lands Act 1920”.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     15

Meaning of “chargeable consent”

 3.—(1) In this Act, a reference to “chargeable consent” in relation
to any land is a reference to —

       (a) the grant, on or after the appointed day, of a planning
            permission or conservation permission in relation to the
            land, as a result of which a person is entitled to carry out a
            development of the land;

       (b) a varying by the Authority, on or after the appointed day, of
            any of the following restrictive covenants in a State title or
            a concessional State title relating to the land:

               (i) a development control restrictive covenant, as a
                   result of which a person is entitled to carry out a
                   development of the land without any subdivision of
                   the land that is the subject of the development control
                   restrictive covenant;

              (ii) a subdivision control restrictive covenant, as a result
                   of which a person is entitled to carry out a
                   subdivision of the land (with or without any
                   development of the land) that is the subject of the
                   subdivision control restrictive covenant;

             (iii) a controlled activity restrictive covenant, as a result
                   of which a person is entitled to carry on or not carry
                   on, or to stop carrying on, a controlled activity that is
                   the subject of the controlled activity restrictive
                   covenant; or

       (c) the accepting of a lodgment, on or after the appointed day,
            of any plans for a development of the land deemed
            authorised without express written permission.

 (2) A chargeable consent by way of varying a restrictive covenant
in a State title relating to land must not be regarded as given until —

       (a) the date of the deed of release, or the date a contract or an
            agreement, for varying the restrictive covenant is entered
            into between the Authority and the owner of the land,
            whichever date is earlier;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
16  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (b) where the deed of release, or the contract or agreement, for
            varying the restrictive covenant is undated, the date on
            which the deed, contract or agreement is executed by the
            Authority, whichever date is earliest; or

       (c) where the deed of release, or the contract or agreement, for
            varying the restrictive covenant is subject to any condition
            precedent for the variation to take effect, the date when all
            those conditions are satisfied.

 (3) However, where a person is not entitled to carry out a
development of any land except as a result of more than one of the
following events:

       (a) a varying of a restrictive covenant in a State title relating to
            the land and the restrictive covenant is not any of those
            mentioned in subsection (4)(a);

       (b) the grant of a planning permission or conservation
            permission in relation to the land;

       (c) the accepting of a lodgment of any plans for a development
            of the land deemed authorised without express written
            permission,

then despite subsections (1) and (2), a chargeable consent must be
regarded as given in relation to the development of the land upon the
happening of the earliest of those events, and all other subsequent
chargeable consents must be disregarded for the purposes of this Act.

 (4) Where a person is not entitled to carry out a development of any
land except as a result of more than one of the following events:

       (a) a varying of any of the following restrictive covenants in a
            State title relating to the land:

               (i) a special condition in a directly allotted State title
                   relating to the land;

              (ii) a restrictive covenant in a concessional State title
                   relating to the land;

             (iii) a controlled activity restrictive covenant in a State
                   title relating to the land;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     17

             (iv) a subdivision control restrictive covenant in a State
                   title relating to the land;

       (b) the grant of a planning permission or conservation
            permission in relation to the land;

       (c) the accepting of a lodgment of any plans for a development
            of the land deemed authorised without express written
            permission,

then despite subsections (1) and (2), only the varying of a restrictive
covenant mentioned in paragraph (a) is regarded as the giving of
chargeable consent in relation to the development of the land, and the
happening of events in paragraphs (b) and (c) must be disregarded for
the purposes of this Act.

Meanings of “material interest” and “owner”

 4.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person is not an owner of any
land unless the person has a material interest in the land.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a “material interest” in any land
means a legal interest in the land which is —

       (a) an estate in fee simple;

       (b) an estate in perpetuity;

       (c) a leasehold estate under a State title of whatever tenure; or

       (d) subject to subsection (3), an interest in the land entitling the
            person to receive rent of the land (whether on the person’s
            own account or as trustee for any other person or as a
            receiver) —

               (i) if the land is let to a tenant for more than 10 years; or

              (ii) if the land is in fact let for more than 10 years,

and includes a mortgagee in possession.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2) —

       (a) the fact that the term of a lease may be extended pursuant
            to an option exercisable wholly at the lessee’s discretion
            must be taken into consideration in determining whether

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
18  NO. 11 OF 2021

            the term of the lease exceeds any periods specified in
            subsection (2)(d); and

       (b) the fact that a lease for a specified period of time is
            determinable on the happening of an event within that time
            must not be taken into consideration in determining the
            term of the lease.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, a person must not be regarded as
having a material interest in any land by reason only that the person
has purchased, from a developer of a development for which planning
permission is granted for strata division after completion of any
building comprised in the development, an estate or interest in a lot or
proposed lot in the development before that completion.

 (5) In subsection (4), “developer” means the person for whom or on
whose behalf any development of land is carried out.

Purpose of Act

 5. The purpose of this Act is to define and impose a tax on the
increase in the value of land resulting from a chargeable consent
given in relation to the land —

       (a) that ensures the return to the community of an appropriate
            proportion of economic benefits from the grant of rights to
            develop or otherwise use land;

       (b) that affords certainty and transparency through rules and
            processes for calculating most land betterment charges that
            refer to fixed rates or formulae without need for valuation;

       (c) that would promote land development activity in
            Singapore and support outcomes which accord with the
            land planning and urban development system and
            productivity enhancement measures for the construction
            industry in Singapore; and

       (d) that will promote or encourage environmentally
            sustainable development or use of land that balances the
            interests of current and future generations in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     19

                                    PART 2

                    LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE

Land betterment charge is tax

 6. A tax called a land betterment charge is charged in accordance
with the provisions of this Act in respect of each chargeable consent
given in relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled
activity with respect to, any land.

Tax is on increase in value of land

 7.—(1) A land betterment charge payable in respect of any
chargeable consent given in relation to a development or
subdivision of, or a controlled activity with respect to, any land is
on the increase in the value of the land likely to accrue from the
giving of the chargeable consent that is leviable under this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, the leviable increase in the value of
any land likely to accrue from the giving of a chargeable consent in
relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
with respect to, the land is the prescribed percentage according to
section 8 of the increase in the value of the land likely to accrue from
the giving of the chargeable consent, the amount of which must be
ascertained in accordance with this Act.

Leviable increase in value of land

 8.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the prescribed percentage of the
increase in the value of any land likely to accrue from the giving of a
chargeable consent in relation to a development of the land is any
percentage prescribed by Regulations —

       (a) made under section 65; and

       (b) in force at the relevant point in time pertaining to that
            chargeable consent.

 (2) In the case of a chargeable consent given in relation to —

       (a) a development or a subdivision of any land by way of
            varying a special condition in a directly allotted State title
            relating to the land, but not the following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
20  NO. 11 OF 2021

               (i) a development of land without a material change of
                   use of the land as described in the directly allotted
                   State title;

              (ii) a directly allotted State title (but not a concessional
                   State title) granted to a public authority; or

       (b) a development or a subdivision of, or a controlled activity
            with respect to, any land by way of varying any of the
            following restrictive covenants in a State title relating to
            the land:

               (i) a restrictive covenant in a concessional State title;

              (ii) a controlled activity restrictive covenant;

             (iii) a subdivision control restrictive covenant,

the prescribed percentage of the increase in the value of the land
likely to accrue from the giving of the chargeable consent is a
percentage that —

       (c) is higher than the percentage prescribed for the purposes of
            subsection (1); and

       (d) is prescribed by Regulations —

               (i) made under section 65; and

              (ii) in force at the relevant point in time pertaining to that
                   chargeable consent.

 (3) In the case of any chargeable consent given in relation to a
development of any land by way of any of the following:

       (a) a planning permission or conservation permission;

       (b) a varying of a restrictive covenant in a State title (with or
            without a special condition) or a concessional State title
            relating to the land that is neither —

               (i) a controlled activity restrictive covenant; nor

              (ii) a subdivision control restrictive covenant,

the relevant point in time pertaining to the chargeable consent is, for
the purposes of this Act —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     21

       (c) the date a planning permission or conservation permission
            (as the case may be) is granted in respect of the
            development of the land to which the permission relates,
            where —

               (i) no provisional permission is granted with respect to
                   the development of the land; and

              (ii) no lodgment is made of any plans for development
                   that may be deemed authorised without express
                   written permission;

       (d) the date where provisional permission is granted with
            respect to the development of the land — where any
            provisional permission is granted with respect to the
            development and written permission is granted, for that
            same development of land under section 14 or 17(4) (as the
            case may be) of the Planning Act 1998, following not more
            than one extension of the provisional permission; or

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

       (e) the date where provisional permission granted with respect
            to the development of the land is last extended — where
            any provisional permission is granted with respect to the
            development and written permission is granted, for that
            same development of land under section 14 or 17(4) (as the
            case may be) of the Planning Act 1998, following 2 or
            more extensions of the provisional permission.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, the relevant point in time
pertaining to any chargeable consent not mentioned in
subsection (3) is whichever of the following dates that is applicable:

       (a) for a chargeable consent that is accepting a lodgment of
            any plans for a development of the land deemed authorised
            without express written permission — the date of the
            acceptance of the lodgment;

       (b) for a chargeable consent that is varying a restrictive
            covenant in a State title that is —

               (i) a controlled activity restrictive covenant; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
22  NO. 11 OF 2021

              (ii) a subdivision control restrictive covenant,

       (b) the date the chargeable consent is given.

 (5) This section is subject to Part 3.

Ascertaining amount of land betterment charge

 9.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the amount of the land betterment
charge in respect of any chargeable consent given in relation to a
development or a subdivision of any land not mentioned in
subsection (2) is the amount ascertained by the Table of Rates
method.

 (2) The amount of the land betterment charge in respect of a
chargeable consent given in relation to —

       (a) a development or a subdivision of any land by way of
            varying a special condition in a directly allotted State title
            relating to the land, but not the following:

               (i) a development of land without a material change of
                   use of the land as described in the directly allotted
                   State title;

              (ii) a directly allotted State title (but not a concessional
                   State title) granted to a public authority; or

       (b) a development or a subdivision of, or a controlled activity
            with respect to, any land by way of varying any of the
            following restrictive covenants in a State title relating to
            the land:

               (i) a restrictive covenant in a concessional State title;

              (ii) a controlled activity restrictive covenant;

             (iii) a subdivision control restrictive covenant,

is the amount ascertained by the Valuation method.

 (3) The amount of the land betterment charge in respect of any
chargeable consent given in relation to a development of any land as
described in subsection (1) may be ascertained by the Valuation
method in lieu of the Table of Rates method where —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     23

       (a) all taxable persons concerned elect, before a liability order
            is given to the taxable persons, for the Valuation method to
            be so used; or

       (b) the Table of Rates method is inapplicable to the particular
            development.

 (4) Any election under subsection (3)(a) must —

       (a) be in writing by or on behalf of the taxable person
            concerned;

       (b) be in a prescribed form (if prescribed); and

       (c) be given to the Authority within a prescribed period after
            the relevant point in time for the chargeable consent
            concerned, or such extension of that time as allowed by the
            Authority in any particular case.

 (5) Any election under subsection (3)(a) is irrevocable.

Valuation method

 10.—(1) The Valuation method of ascertaining the amount of the
land betterment charge in respect of any chargeable consent given in
relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
with respect to, any land involves a valuation by a designated valuer
according to section 8(1) or (2) and Part 3 (whichever is applicable)
of the increase in the value of the land likely to accrue from the giving
of the chargeable consent.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, the Chief Valuer or another
individual may be appointed by the Authority to ascertain the amount
of land betterment charge by the Valuation method.

 (3) However, no land betterment charge ascertained using the
Valuation method is payable in respect of any chargeable consent in
relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
with respect to, any land where the price the land might reasonably
obtain if sold at the relevant point in time pertaining to the chargeable
consent, does not exceed the price if sold before that relevant point in
time.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
24  NO. 11 OF 2021

Table of Rates method

 11.—(1) The Table of Rates method for ascertaining the amount of
the land betterment charge in respect of any chargeable consent in
relation to a development of any land involves a calculation by —

       (a) first, deriving the post‑chargeable valuation of the land and
            the pre‑chargeable valuation of the land using the rates and
            methods prescribed by Regulations made under section 65
            or Part 3; and

       (b) then, subtracting the pre‑chargeable valuation of the land
            from the post‑chargeable valuation of the land.

 (2) However, no land betterment charge ascertained using the Table
of Rates method is payable in respect of any chargeable consent in
relation to a development of any land where the post‑chargeable
valuation of the land does not exceed the pre‑chargeable valuation.

 (3) Subject to Part 3, for the purposes of assessing any land
betterment charge payable in respect of a chargeable consent given in
relation to any land, the pre‑chargeable valuation of the land must
take into account the following:

       (a) the last authorised development of the same land, where
            the following were paid or payable:

               (i) all development charges earlier paid under the
                   Planning Act 1998 or the predecessor Act;

              (ii) all land betterment charges earlier paid under this
                   Act;

             (iii) all penalty tax earlier paid under this Act;

       (b) any restrictive covenant expressed in a State title for the
            land, binding the owner of the land under the State title —

               (i) to refrain from using or developing the land in a
                   particular way, or from doing a particular thing in
                   relation to that land;

              (ii) to not sublet, subdivide or otherwise deal with the
                   land, or part of the land, without the permission of
                   the Authority; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     25

             (iii) to construct, replace or maintain, or limit the type,
                   style or proportion of building materials that may be
                   used in the construction, replacement or maintenance
                   of, any building on that land,

       (b) if comparably higher than paragraph (a);

       (c) any exemption or remission from any liability to pay in
            connection with the last authorised development of the
            same land —

               (i) any development charge under the Planning
                   Act 1998 or the predecessor Act; or

              (ii) any land betterment charges under this Act;

       (d) any concessionary relief under section 13 from any
            liability to pay any land betterment charges in
            connection with the last authorised development of the
            same land;

       (e) the absence of any liability to pay any tax mentioned in
            paragraph (a) in connection with the last authorised
            development of the same land.

 (4) However, the following must be disregarded in determining the
pre‑chargeable valuation of any land:

       (a) any development of the land which is not an authorised
            development;

       (b) any use of the land which could be restrained by any court
            or is contrary to law;

       (c) any development of the land authorised by a planning
            permission or conservation permission granted for a
            specified period not exceeding 10 years;

       (d) any development of the land where the planning
            permission or conservation permission granted for it has
            lapsed under section 20 of the Planning Act 1998 except to
            the extent that any of the following were paid for that
            development:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
26  NO. 11 OF 2021

           (i) development charges earlier payable under the
                Planning Act 1998 or the predecessor Act;

          (ii) land betterment charges payable under this Act;

    (e) any development of land for use as a hotel or part of a hotel
         authorised by the grant of written permission under the
         predecessor Act between 18 April 1968 and 31 December
         1969 (both dates inclusive) on any prescribed land if —

           (i) the use of the development as a hotel or part of a
                hotel has ceased; or

          (ii) the application for a planning permission or
                conservation permission being considered by the
                competent authority for the land is for development
                of the land for a use other than as a hotel;

    (f) any development of land, being a development in respect
         of which development charge was exempted or remitted
         under the Planning Act 1998, if —

           (i) any term of an exemption or a remission under that
                Act provides that the development (for which
                development charge was exempted or remitted)
                must be disregarded for the Development Baseline
                under that Act; or

          (ii) any term of the exemption or remission under that
                Act has ceased to be or is not complied with;

    (g) any development of land, being a development in respect
         of which concessionary relief under section 13 was
         applied, if —

           (i) any term of the concessionary relief provides that the
                development must be disregarded for the
                pre‑chargeable valuation of the land; or

          (ii) any term of the concessionary relief has ceased to be
                or is not complied with;

    (h) any matter mentioned in subsection (5).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     27

 (5) Subject to subsection (2) and Part 3, for the purposes of
assessing any land betterment charge payable in respect of a
chargeable consent given in relation to any land, the
post‑chargeable valuation of the land must take into account
whichever of the following that the land may be put to:

       (a) the development of the land a person is entitled to carry out
            on the land as a result of the giving of the chargeable
            consent;

       (b) the entitlement to carry on or not carry on, or the release
            from carrying on, a controlled activity as a result of varying
            a controlled activity restrictive covenant under the
            chargeable consent given.

 (6) However, any development of land previously authorised by a
planning permission or conservation permission granted for a
specified period not exceeding 10 years must be disregarded in
determining the post‑chargeable valuation of the land for the
purposes of assessing any land betterment charge payable in
respect of a current chargeable consent given in relation to a
development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity with respect
to, the land.

                                    PART 3

                     CONCESSIONS AND RELIEF

General exemption

 12.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act,
either generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions
as the Minister may impose.

 (2) Every order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Concessionary relief for planning objectives

 13.—(1) The Land Planning Minister may, after consulting the
Minister, provide by order in the Gazette for concessionary relief, for

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
28  NO. 11 OF 2021

a period or permanently, from the whole or part of any land
betterment charge for chargeable consent given in relation to —

       (a) a development or subdivision of any land within any land,
            or land in any area, specified in the order;

       (b) a development of any land within any development or class
            of developments specified in the order; or

       (c) a development or subdivision of any land within any area
            or other extent of development specified in the order,

if and so far as the relief appears to the Land Planning Minister to be
necessary or expedient.

 (2) However, the Land Planning Minister may only make an order
under subsection (1) if satisfied that the subject of the order is not
covered by section 12 and —

       (a) will advance an integrated or a more optimal use of land in
            Singapore or any part of Singapore, and one of the
            following applies:

               (i) the desirability of the proposed development or
                   subdivision of any land in achieving economic
                   development or maintaining the cultural, economic,
                   physical and social wellbeing of the people of
                   Singapore and the community in the area concerned;

              (ii) there is an appropriate balance between potential
                   short‑term and long‑term environmental effects of
                   the proposed development or subdivision of any land
                   or any adverse environmental effects of development
                   or subdivision (climate change and urban
                   congestion, for example) that may result are
                   otherwise avoided or minimised;

             (iii) the desirability of funding (in whole or part) from
                   any land betterment charge relating to the proposed
                   development or subdivision of any land or other
                   activity, the actual and expected estimated total cost
                   of infrastructure and amenities required to support
                   the improvement of the area in which the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     29

                   development or subdivision is to take place, taking
                   into account other actual and expected sources of
                   funding;

       (b) will promote or encourage the greater use of technology or
            other techniques and improvements in the construction
            process that enhance productivity in the construction
            industry; or

       (c) will promote or encourage environmentally sustainable
            development of land that balances the interests of current
            and future generations in Singapore.

 (3) An order under subsection (1) may —

       (a) provide for a reduction of the land betterment charge
            chargeable, such as —

               (i) by a reduced percentage of the increase in the value
                   of the land likely to accrue from the giving of a
                   chargeable consent;

              (ii) by specifying a higher pre‑chargeable valuation for
                   the development concerned; or

             (iii) by providing for an off‑set against the land
                   betterment charge payable;

       (b) prescribe that the concessionary relief contained in the
            order is subject to conditions related to the matters in
            subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c), including conditions
            prohibiting or restricting the disposal of or dealing with
            land for a period; and

       (c) provide different concessionary reliefs for land,
            developments and areas of different descriptions and for
            different circumstances.

 (4) Section 65 applies with such modifications as are required for
the making of an order under subsection (1).

 (5) Where an order is made under this section and it is applicable to
any land, development of land or chargeable consent described in the
order, then for the purposes of this Act, any reference to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
30  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (a) the prescribed percentage of the increase in the value of the
            land likely to accrue from the giving of the chargeable
            consent in relation to the land or a development or
            subdivision of the land is as specified or described in the
            order; and

       (b) the pre‑chargeable valuation of the land is as specified or
            described in the order.

 (6) Every order made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Remission

 14.—(1) Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Minister —

       (a) that a natural person liable to pay any land betterment
            charge has suffered such a loss, or is in such circumstances,
            that the exaction of the full amount of land betterment
            charge would entail serious hardship;

       (b) that payment of any land betterment charge payable or to
            become payable is likely to cause substantial hardship to a
            taxable person; or

       (c) that payment of any land betterment charge payable or to
            become payable by a particular taxable person is not
            compatible with the purposes of this Act having regard to
            the peculiar facts of the case,

the Minister may remit the payment of the land betterment charge,
either wholly or in part.

 (2) The Minister may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred upon the Minister under subsection (1) to the
Authority, an employee of the Authority or a public officer, and any
reference in subsection (1) to the Minister includes a reference to the
Authority or that employee or public officer, as the case may be.

 (3) Any delegation under subsection (2) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Minister may specify.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     31

 (4) This section also applies to any interest imposed under
section 38 and any penalty tax payable under Part 6.

                                    PART 4

                                  LIABILITY

                       Division 1 — Taxable persons

Who is liable to pay land betterment charge

 15.—(1) A land betterment charge in respect of a chargeable
consent given in relation to a development or subdivision of, or a
controlled activity with respect to, any land is payable —

       (a) by every person who, when the chargeable consent is
            given, is an owner of the land;

       (b) by every person who gives an assumption of liability notice
            under section 16 that the person assumes liability to pay the
            land betterment charge in place of any person in
            paragraph (a); or

       (c) by every transferee to whom a deferred liability to pay the
            land betterment charge is transferred under section 23.

 (2) Where a taxable person becomes liable to pay a land betterment
charge for a chargeable consent given in relation to a development or
subdivision of, or a controlled activity with respect to, any land, the
person’s liability continues despite the taxable person disposing of
the land or other changes in ownership of the land.

 (3) This section is subject to the making of any of the following:

       (a) a deferment determination or a transfer of deferred liability
            under section 20 or 23, as the case may be;

       (b) an exemption under section 12;

       (c) a remission under section 14.

Assumed liability

 16.—(1) A person who wishes to assume liability to pay any land
betterment charge for a chargeable consent given in relation to a

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
32  NO. 11 OF 2021

development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity with respect
to, any land may give an assumption of liability notice to the
Authority —

       (a) at any time before, on or after a liability order is given with
            respect to the chargeable consent; but

       (b) not after a revised liability order is given with respect to the
            same chargeable consent.

 (2) An assumption of liability notice must —

       (a) be in writing and in a form required by the Authority; and

       (b) identify the person in place of whom liability to pay the
            land betterment charge is being assumed by that notice
            (called the default taxable person).

 (3) An assumption of liability notice is valid if it complies with
subsection (2).

 (4) A person is deemed to have assumed liability on the day on
which the Authority receives and acknowledges receipt of a valid
assumption of liability notice from that person.

 (5) On receiving a valid assumption of liability notice, the
Authority must send an acknowledgment of its receipt to the
person who assumed liability.

 (6) An assumption of liability notice given in accordance with this
section is irrevocable.

 (7) A person who assumes liability in accordance with this section
is liable to pay an amount of the land betterment charge equal to the
amount that the default taxable person would have been liable to pay
if not for this section; and the default taxable person then ceases to be
liable to pay that amount of the land betterment charge.

Apportionment of liability according to material interests

 17.—(1) Where no one has, in accordance with section 16, assumed
liability to pay any land betterment charge for a chargeable consent
given in relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled
activity with respect to, any land, the liability to pay the land

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     33

betterment charge must be apportioned between each material
interest in the land.

 (2) Before the Authority apportions liability between material
interests in any land and gives a liability order under Part 5, the
Authority may require each owner of the land to provide —

       (a) information about the owner’s material interest in the land;
            and

       (b) such other information in the owner’s possession or control
            which the Authority considers relevant to assist it in
            apportioning liability.

Joint liability

 18.—(1) Where 2 or more persons are joint owners of a material
interest in land, they are each jointly and severally liable to pay any
land betterment charge in respect of that material interest in that land.

 (2) Where 2 or more persons have, in accordance with section 16,
assumed liability to pay any land betterment charge for a chargeable
consent given in relation to a development or subdivision of, or a
controlled activity with respect to, any land, they are each jointly and
severally liable to pay the land betterment charge payable.

Interests held on trust

 19.—(1) Where a material interest in any land is held by a person as
a bare trustee, this Act applies as if that interest were vested in, and
the acts of the trustee in relation to it were the acts of, the person for
whom that person is the trustee.

 (2) Where the trustees of a settlement are liable to pay land
betterment charge, any amount due may be recovered from any one or
more of the responsible trustees.

 (3) The responsible trustees in relation to a material interest in the
land are the persons who were trustees on the day on which
chargeable consent is given in relation to the land, and any person
who subsequently becomes a trustee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
34  NO. 11 OF 2021

(4) In this section —

    “bare trust” means a trust under which property is held by a
        person as trustee —

            (a) for a person who is absolutely entitled as against the
                 trustee, or who would be so entitled but for being a
                 minor or other person under a disability; or

            (b) for 2 or more persons who are or would be jointly so
                 entitled,

        and includes a case in which a person holds property as
        nominee for another;

    “settlement” means a trust which is not a bare trust.

                 Division 2 — Deferment determinations

Deferment of liability by deferment determination

 20.—(1) A taxable person may apply to the Authority for a
determination deferring payment of any land betterment charge
payable by the taxable person (called in this Act a deferment
determination).

 (2) The Authority may make a deferment determination deferring
payment of any land betterment charge payable by a taxable person in
respect of a chargeable consent given in relation to a development or
subdivision of, or a controlled activity with respect to, any land if the
Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the taxable person is a charitable institution and the land
            will be used wholly or mainly for charitable purposes
            (whether of the taxable person or of that person and other
            charitable institutions); or

       (b) the taxable person and the land satisfy any other prescribed
            criteria in Regulations made under section 65.

 (3) However, for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) and the
disqualifying event under section 22(2)(b), land must not be
regarded as used wholly or mainly for charitable purposes where

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     35

the material interest in the land is owned by the taxable person jointly
with a person who is not a charitable institution.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2) and the disqualifying event
under section 22(2)(b), use of any land for charitable purposes
includes leaving it unoccupied.

 (5) A deferment determination may do either or both of the
following:

       (a) defer the liability of the taxable person or a taxable person
            to pay all or part of the total amount of the land betterment
            charge payable as at the date of the determination;

       (b) defer the obligation of the taxable person or a taxable
            person to pay all or part of each amount of the land
            betterment charge to become payable while the deferment
            determination is in force.

 (6) Where the Authority makes a deferment determination, the
Authority must give a copy of the deferment determination to the
taxable person to whom the deferment determination relates.

Effect of deferment determination

 21.—(1) A deferment determination that defers a taxable person’s
liability to pay all or part of the total amount of any land betterment
charge payable has the following effect:

       (a) the taxable person’s liability to pay the amount of land
            betterment charge as at the date of the deferment
            determination is reduced in accordance with that
            determination;

       (b) the person becomes indebted to the Authority for the
            amount by which the liability is reduced.

 (2) A deferment determination that defers a taxable person’s
obligation to pay all or part of each amount of any additional land
betterment charge to become payable while the deferment
determination is in force has the following effect:

       (a) immediately after each amount of the additional land
            betterment charge becomes payable, the person’s liability

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
36  NO. 11 OF 2021

            to pay the amount of the additional land betterment charge
            is reduced in accordance with the deferment determination;

       (b) the person becomes indebted to the Authority for the
            amount by which the liability is reduced.

 (3) If a person is indebted to the Authority for an amount referred to
in subsection (1)(b) or (2)(b), the amount is not recoverable by the
Authority while the deferment determination is in force.

Cancelling deferment determination

 22.—(1) This section applies if a deferment determination is made
and the Authority is satisfied that a disqualifying event in
subsection (2) or (3) (as the case may be) occurs.

 (2) Where a taxable person’s liability to pay any land betterment
charge is reduced by or under a deferment determination because of
section 20(2)(a), the disqualifying event is any of the following:

       (a) the taxable person ceases to be a charitable institution;

       (b) the whole or part of the land in respect of which the
            deferred land betterment charge relates —

               (i) is disposed of or transferred to another person;

              (ii) ceases to be occupied by or under the control of the
                   taxable person; or

             (iii) ceases to be used wholly or mainly for charitable
                   purposes;

       (c) any other disqualifying event prescribed in Regulations
            made under section 65 for such a deferment determination
            takes place.

 (3) Where a taxable person’s liability to pay any land betterment
charge is reduced by or under a deferment determination because of
section 20(2)(b), the disqualifying event is any of the following:

       (a) the taxable person ceases to satisfy the criteria prescribed
            in Regulations made under section 65 for the purposes of
            section 20(2)(b);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     37

       (b) the whole or part of the land in respect of which the
            deferred land betterment charge relates —

               (i) is disposed of or transferred to another person;

              (ii) ceases to be occupied by or under the control of the
                   taxable person; or

             (iii) ceases to be used or maintained or otherwise satisfy
                   the criteria prescribed in Regulations made under
                   section 65 for the purposes of section 20(2)(b);

       (c) any other disqualifying event prescribed in Regulations
            made under section 65 for such a deferment determination
            takes place.

 (4) Before exercising any power to cancel a deferment
determination, the Authority must give written notice to the taxable
person concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to cancel a deferment
            determination relating to the taxable person;

       (b) specifying the disqualifying event that is the ground for the
            proposed cancellation; and

       (c) specifying the time (being not less than 7 days from the
            date the written notice is given to the taxable person)
            within which written representations may be made to the
            Authority with respect to the proposed cancellation.

 (5) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (4)(c), decide to cancel the deferment determination
in whole or in part.

 (6) Where the Authority has made any decision under
subsection (5) to cancel a deferment determination relating to a
taxable person, the Authority must give the taxable person concerned
a notice of its decision.

 (7) Subject to section 48, a decision to cancel a deferment
determination under this section takes effect from the date on
which the notice under subsection (6) is given, or on such other later
date as may be specified in that notice.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
38  NO. 11 OF 2021

 (8) Where a deferment determination is cancelled under
subsection (5), the person who, immediately before a disqualifying
event concerned occurs, is the taxable person whose liability to pay
any land betterment charge is reduced by or under the deferment
determination, is liable to pay —

       (a) the amount of the land betterment charge that was reduced
            in accordance with that determination; or

       (b) if the deferment determination is cancelled in part, such
            part of the amount of the land betterment charge that was
            reduced in accordance with that determination as
            corresponding to the part of the deferment determination
            cancelled.

Transfer of deferred liability

 23.—(1) A taxable person whose liability to pay any land
betterment charge is reduced by or under a deferment
determination (called in this section the transferor) may transfer the
whole of the person’s deferred liability to another person (called in
this section the transferee) with the approval of the Authority.

 (2) To obtain the approval of the Authority under subsection (1), the
transferor must give the Authority a deferred liability transfer
notice —

       (a) in writing and in a form required by the Authority;

       (b) identifying the transferee to whom the deferred liability to
            pay the land betterment charge is being transferred,
            accompanied by the consent of the transferee; and

       (c) including any other particulars prescribed in order for the
            Authority to make a decision under this section.

 (3) A transferee is deemed to have assumed a transferor’s deferred
liability to pay a land betterment charge on the day on which the
Authority approves the transferor’s application under subsection (1).

 (4) If the Authority approves a transfer of deferred liability, the
Authority must give a copy of the approval to the transferee
concerned, accompanied by the relevant deferment determination
setting out the details of the deferred liability transferred.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     39

                                    PART 5

                  ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION

When land betterment charge is payable

 24.—(1) A land betterment charge that is payable by a taxable
person is due and payable to the Authority —

       (a) at the end of one month after a liability order is given to the
            taxable person by the Authority in respect of that land
            betterment charge; or

       (b) at the end of any period of extension allowed under
            subsection (4) for payment of that land betterment charge.

 (2) Where an assessment in a liability order is revised in accordance
with section 27 and any additional land betterment charge is payable
by a taxable person, the additional land betterment charge is due and
payable to the Authority —

       (a) at the end of one month after the revised liability order is
            given to the taxable person by the Authority in respect of
            that additional land betterment charge; or

       (b) at the end of any period of extension allowed under
            subsection (4) for payment of that additional land
            betterment charge.

 (3) Where a deferment determination is cancelled under
section 22(5) and a taxable person becomes liable under that
section to pay the amount of the land betterment charge that was
reduced in accordance with that deferment determination, that
amount of the land betterment charge is due and payable to the
Authority in full —

       (a) at the end of one month after the notice under section 22(6)
            about the cancellation of the deferment determination is
            given to the taxable person by the Authority; or

       (b) at the end of any period of extension allowed under
            subsection (4) for payment of the land betterment charge.

 (4) The Authority may, in such cases as it thinks fit, extend the time
for payment of any land betterment charge or additional land

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
40  NO. 11 OF 2021

betterment charge beyond the time mentioned in subsection (1)(a),
(2)(a) or (3)(a).

 (5) This section is subject to the making of a deferment
determination under section 20, a transfer of deferred liability
under section 23 or the making of a remission under section 14.

Liability order

 25.—(1) Every taxable person must be given a liability order
stating —

       (a) subject to paragraph (b), the amount of the land betterment
            charge payable by the taxable person in respect of the
            relevant chargeable consent given in relation to a
            development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
            with respect to, any land; or

       (b) if the relevant chargeable consent when given relates to a
            development of any land, an estimate of the amount of the
            land betterment charge that would be payable by the
            taxable person if the relevant chargeable consent were
            given in relation to a development of the land.

 (2) A liability order must —

       (a) specify an estimate of the total amount or the total amount
            (as the case may be) of the land betterment charge payable,
            and the apportioned amount among each taxable person
            concerned;

       (b) state that the liability order may be subsequently revised by
            the Authority, and that an additional amount of land
            betterment charge may become further payable as a result;

       (c) state that a taxable person given the liability order has to
            pay that estimated amount or amount (as the case may be)
            of land betterment charge within the time delimited by or
            under section 24(1); and

       (d) specify the time within which under section 47(2)(a) the
            person may appeal to the Minister against the liability
            order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     41

 (3) Where the Authority gives to a taxable person a revised liability
order under section 27 in respect of any chargeable consent given in
relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
with respect to, any land, any earlier liability order given by the
Authority to the taxable person in respect of the same chargeable
consent and relating to the same development or subdivision of, or the
same controlled activity with respect to, the same land ceases to have
any effect.

 (4) Subject to section 30, a liability order specifying an estimate of
the amount of the land betterment charge payable by the taxable
person if a chargeable consent were given in relation to a
development of any land is treated as final as regards the
assessment of the amount of land betterment charge payable in
relation to the same development of the same land when —

       (a) 24 months has lapsed after —

               (i) the date the chargeable consent was given to the
                   taxable persons; or

              (ii) if the chargeable consent was given on more than one
                   date, the last date the chargeable consent was given
                   to any of the taxable persons; and

       (b) no revised liability order is earlier given under section 27
            in respect of that same chargeable consent.

When liability order must be given

 26.—(1) The Authority must give in accordance with
subsection (2), (3) or (4) (whichever is applicable) a liability order
stating an estimate of the amount or the amount of land betterment
charge that is payable.

 (2) For a chargeable consent that is —

       (a) a planning permission or conservation permission; or

       (b) by way of varying of a restrictive covenant in a State title
            relating to any land that is not a controlled activity
            restrictive covenant or subdivision control restrictive
            covenant,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
42  NO. 11 OF 2021

the liability order must be given as soon as practicable after one of the
following dates, whichever is applicable:

       (c) the date a planning permission or conservation permission
            (as the case may be) is granted in respect of the
            development of the land to which the permission or
            authorisation relates, where —

               (i) no provisional permission is granted with respect to
                   the development of the land; and

              (ii) no lodgment is made of any plans for the
                   development that may be deemed authorised
                   without express written permission;

       (d) the date where the competent authority or Land Planning
            Minister notifies the Authority that the competent
            authority or Land Planning Minister (as the case may be)
            intends to grant written permission under section 14 or
            17(4) (as the case may be) of the Planning Act 1998 —
            where any provisional permission is granted with respect
            to the development of the land and that provisional
            permission does not lapse because of one or more
            extensions.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 (3) For a chargeable consent that is accepting a lodgment of any
plans for a development of the land deemed authorised without
express written permission, the liability order must be given as soon
as practicable after the date the lodgment is accepted.

 (4) For a chargeable consent that is by way of varying a controlled
activity restrictive covenant or a subdivision control restrictive
covenant in a State title, the liability order must be given as soon as
practicable after the date the chargeable consent is given.

Revised liability order

 27.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Authority may revise an
estimate of the amount or the amount of land betterment charge
assessed and stated in a liability order as payable either —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     43

       (a) on its own initiative, by making such alterations or
            additions to the assessment as it thinks necessary to
            ensure that a complete and accurate assessment is made; or

       (b) upon a reference by the Minister under section 47(4) after
            an appeal.

 (2) The Authority must not give a revised liability order under
subsection (1)(a) about an estimate of the amount or the amount of
land betterment charge payable in respect of a chargeable consent
given in relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled
activity with respect to, any land if more than 24 months has lapsed
after —

       (a) the date the chargeable consent was given to the taxable
            persons; or

       (b) if the chargeable consent was given on more than one date,
            the last date the chargeable consent was given to any of the
            taxable persons.

 (3) A revised liability order in respect of a chargeable consent in
relation to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
with respect to, any land must —

       (a) specify the revised amount of land betterment charge
            payable by every taxable person concerned in respect of
            the chargeable consent;

       (b) state that a taxable person given the revised liability order
            has to pay the additional amount of land betterment charge
            specified within the time delimited by or under
            section 24(2);

       (c) state that any earlier liability order given to the taxable
            person in respect of the same chargeable consent and
            relating to the same development or subdivision of, or the
            same controlled activity with respect to, the same land is
            superseded; and

       (d) specify the time within which under section 47(2)(a) the
            person may appeal to the Minister against the revised
            liability order.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
44  NO. 11 OF 2021

Valuation method process

 28. Where the Valuation method is required by section 9(2) or
allowed by section 9(3) to be used to ascertain the amount of land
betterment charge payable in respect of any chargeable consent
relating to a development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity
with respect to, any land, the Authority must —

       (a) arrange for a valuation required by that section to be
            carried out without delay by a designated valuer; and

       (b) upon receiving a report of the valuation mentioned in
            paragraph (a), give a liability order based on that report to
            the taxable person or persons concerned.

Liability order, etc., ceases to have effect when land betterment
charge is fully paid

 29. Subject to the making of a deferment determination under
section 20, a transfer of deferred liability under section 23 or the
making of a remission under section 14 —

       (a) a liability order; or

       (b) a revised liability order (if made),

that is given to a taxable person in respect of a chargeable consent
ceases to have effect in relation to the taxable person once all
outstanding amounts of land betterment charge due in respect of that
chargeable consent have been paid to the Authority.

Payment of land betterment charge short levied, etc.

 30.—(1) Despite sections 25(4) and 29, where any amount of land
betterment charge under this Act has been short levied or erroneously
refunded for any reason or owing to any cause, the person who should
have paid the amount short levied or to whom the refund has
erroneously been made must pay the deficiency or repay the amount
erroneously refunded, to the Authority on a valid demand being made
and given to that person.

 (2) A demand is valid under subsection (1) if it satisfies the
following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     45

       (a) it is in writing;

       (b) it is made within 2 years after the date of payment of the
            land betterment charge stated in the demand as having been
            short levied or erroneously refunded;

       (c) it specifies —

               (i) the amount of the short levy or erroneous refund that
                   the Authority requires to be paid or repaid; or

              (ii) the circumstances or land or chargeable consent in
                   relation to which the Authority has reason to believe
                   the short levy or erroneous refund arose.

 (3) Subsection (2)(b) does not apply if the short levy or erroneous
refund was the result of fraud or evasion on the part of the person
liable to pay the amount short levied, or who claimed for or to be
entitled to the refund erroneously made, as the case may be.

 (4) Where the short levy or erroneous refund does not exceed $20 or
such other amount as the Minister may prescribe in Regulations made
under section 65 in substitution, the Authority may waive the
recovery of the short levy or erroneous refund.

                                    PART 6

                       RECOVERY AND EVASION

                           Division 1 — Recovery

Recovery of land betterment charge

 31.—(1) Any land betterment charge is deemed, when it becomes
due and payable at the expiry of the time so delimited by or under
section 24, to be a debt due to the Government, and must be collected
and received by the Authority in accordance with this Act.

 (2) Any land betterment charge that is unpaid may be recovered as a
debt in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the
Authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
46  NO. 11 OF 2021

Action to recover may be taken any time

 32. Any action or remedy for recovery of land betterment charge
and any interest under section 38 may be taken at any time, any
written law to the contrary notwithstanding.

Priority of case in insolvency

 33.—(1) The amount of any land betterment charge or penalty
tax —

       (a) due from a bankrupt at the date of the bankruptcy order, or
            from the bankrupt so dying at the date of his or her death;
            and

       (b) having become due within 12 months before the date of the
            bankruptcy order or his or her death,

is, by this subsection, included among the debts which, under
section 352 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018, are to be paid in priority to all other debts in the
distribution of property of the bankrupt or individual dying insolvent.

 (2) The amount of any land betterment charge or penalty tax —

       (a) due from a company at the date of the winding up order;
            and

       (b) having become due within 12 months before the date of
            commencement of the winding up,

is, by this subsection, included among the taxes which, under
section 203 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018, are to be paid in priority to all other unsecured debts in
a winding up of the company.

Contribution between taxable persons jointly liable

 34. Where 2 or more persons are liable for the same land betterment
charge payable for a chargeable consent given in relation to a
development or subdivision of, or a controlled activity with respect
to, any land, any one of them who has paid the whole of the land
betterment charge (called A) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     47

       (a) may recover from any other person jointly liable with A an
            amount which bears to the amount of land betterment
            charge so paid the same proportion as the value of the
            estate or interest in the land of the other person bears to the
            total of the values of the estates or interests in the land of all
            persons liable for that land betterment charge; and

       (b) may —

               (i) sue for that firstmentioned amount in any court of
                   competent jurisdiction as money paid to the use of
                   that other person at that other person’s request; or

              (ii) retain or deduct that firstmentioned amount out of
                   any moneys in A’s hands belonging or payable to that
                   other person.

Contribution by tenants or occupiers

 35.—(1) Where a taxable person makes default in payment of any
land betterment charge, then, without in any way releasing the taxable
person from liability (except to the extent of any payments deemed to
be made on the taxable person’s behalf mentioned in paragraph (b)),
the following provisions apply as long as the default continues:

       (a) if the land betterment charge is payable in respect of any
            land which is the subject to any lease or occupied by any
            person, then the lessee or occupier is responsible for the
            payment of the contribution and it may be recovered from
            the lessee or occupier as if the lessee or occupier were the
            defaulting taxable person;

       (b) all payments made under this section by a lessee or an
            occupier are deemed to be made on behalf of the defaulting
            taxable person.

 (2) The responsibility of the lessee or occupier under this section is
limited to any rent or payments due by the lessee or occupier to the
taxable person at the time of demand made or action brought by or on
behalf of the Authority.

 (3) Any payment to the Authority under this section constitutes a
valid discharge to the lessee or occupier for rent or payments due by

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
48  NO. 11 OF 2021

the lessee or occupier to the defaulting taxable person as against all
persons whomsoever.

Land betterment charge to be first charge on land

 36.—(1) Any land betterment charge payable in respect of a
chargeable consent relating to any land shall, until it is paid, be a first
charge on that land in priority over all other encumbrances whatever.

 (2) Where any land (called in this subsection a portion) is disposed
of and that land formed part of land (called in this subsection the
whole parcel) which immediately before the disposition was subject
to a charge for an amount (called in this subsection the total charge)
under this section —

       (a) the portion is subject to a charge (as mentioned in
            subsection (1)) for such amount as bears to the total
            charge the same proportion as the area of that portion bears
            to the area of the whole parcel; and

       (b) the remainder of the whole parcel is subject to a charge (as
            mentioned in subsection (1)) for an amount equal to the
            difference between the total charge and the charge to which
            the portion is subject by virtue of paragraph (a), in addition
            to any other charge to which the portion or remainder of the
            whole parcel may become liable.

 (3) A certificate under section 55 is, for the purpose of determining
the amount of any charge on any land as at any date, conclusive
evidence in favour of any person referred to in section 55(2) as at the
date specified in the certificate there was no charge on the land other
than a charge arising out of any matter specified in the certificate.

Overpayment

 37.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), where a taxable person is liable
to pay any land betterment charge and the amount paid by the taxable
person proves greater than the amount for which that person is liable
under this Act, the taxable person is entitled to have the amount
overpaid refunded and the Authority must, as soon as practicable,
repay the overpayment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     49

 (2) In particular, where —

       (a) a taxable person has paid any amount by way of land
            betterment charge if a chargeable consent were given in
            relation to any land; and

       (b) no such chargeable consent is eventually given in relation
            to the land,

the taxable person is entitled to have the amount refunded and the
Authority must, as soon as practicable, repay that amount.

 (3) However, a refund under this section must be claimed in writing
and made to the Authority within 6 years starting the date the liability
order or revised liability order to which the claim relates becomes
final and conclusive.

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section operates to extend any
time limit for appeal under Part 7.

                  Division 2 — Default and penalty tax

Interest in case of default

 38. If any land betterment charge is not paid before the end of the
time delimited by or under section 24(1) or (2), the taxable person
concerned is liable to pay to the Authority interest, at the prescribed
rate, on the amount of land betterment charge unpaid, calculated on a
daily basis from the end of the time so delimited until the day the land
betterment charge is paid.

Penalty tax payable where illegal development, etc., carried out

 39.—(1) Where —

       (a) a person has, before, on or after the appointed day —

               (i) carried out any development or subdivision of any
                   land; or

              (ii) carried on, or stopped carrying on, a controlled
                   activity that is the subject of a controlled activity
                   restrictive covenant in a State title relating to any
                   land; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
50  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (b) the person was then not lawfully entitled to carry out the
            development or subdivision, or to carry on or stop carrying
            on a controlled activity (as the case may be), because any
            one or more of the events in section 3(3) or (4) did not first
            happen,

a person who has a material interest in the land when the rectification
order is given is liable to pay penalty tax upon the Authority giving
the person a rectification order under section 40(1)(d) or (2)(d).

 (2) Penalty tax imposed under this Division is in addition to any
interest under section 38.

 (3) However, penalty tax is not payable in relation to a mere failure
to pay interest under section 38 or a penalty tax previously imposed
under this Division.

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section limits the operation of
Part 4 of the Planning Act 1998.

Rectification order

 40.—(1) Where it appears to the Authority that a person has,
before, on or after the appointed day, carried out any development of
any land and there was no entitlement to do so because —

       (a) there was no grant of a planning permission or
            conservation permission for the development; or

       (b) there was no accepting of a lodgment of any plans for the
            development of the land that may be deemed authorised
            without express written permission,

the Authority may —

       (c) notify the competent authority with a view to the
            competent authority exercising relevant powers under
            Part 4 of the Planning Act 1998 relating to the land; and

       (d) give a rectification order to the person or persons with a
            material interest in the land when the rectification order is
            given, directing the person or persons to pay a penalty tax
            if the competent authority —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     51

               (i) grants planning permission or conservation
                   permission under section 14 of the Planning
                   Act 1998 for the development, which then
                   becomes an authorised development; or

              (ii) accepts a lodgment of any plans for the development
                   of the land which is then deemed authorised without
                   express written permission (as the case may be).

 (2) Where it appears to the Authority that a person has, before, on or
after the appointed day, carried out any development or subdivision of
any land, or carried on or stopped carrying on a controlled activity
that is the subject of a controlled activity restrictive covenant in a
State title relating to any land, and there was no entitlement to do so
because —

       (a) the carrying out of the development or subdivision, or the
            carrying on or stoppage in carrying on the controlled
            activity (as the case may be) would have been lawful only
            after varying by the Authority of —

               (i) a special condition in a directly allotted State title
                   relating to the land;

              (ii) a restrictive covenant in a concessional State title
                   relating to the land;

             (iii) a controlled activity restrictive covenant in a State
                   title relating to the land; or

             (iv) a subdivision control restrictive covenant in a State
                   title relating to the land; and

       (b) that variation was not obtained before the carrying out or
            carrying on of the development or subdivision of the land
            or the controlled activity, or the stoppage in carrying on a
            controlled activity, as the case may be,

the Authority may give a rectification order to the person or persons
with a material interest in the land when the rectification order is
given, directing the person or persons —

       (c) to restore the developed or subdivided land or to stop or
            resume any controlled activity to alleviate the effect of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
52  NO. 11 OF 2021

           unlawful development, subdivision or activity (as the case
           may be) at the person’s cost; or

      (d) to pay a penalty tax if —

             (i) the Authority considers that restoring the developed
                  or subdivided land or stopping or resuming any
                  controlled activity in paragraph (c) is not reasonably
                  practicable or is undesirable; and

            (ii) the competent authority grants or has granted
                  planning permission or conservation permission for
                  the development or subdivision under section 14 of
                  the Planning Act 1998, or accepts or has accepted a
                  lodgment of any plans for the development or
                  subdivision of the land which is then deemed
                  authorised without express written permission (as
                  the case may be) where that permission or lodgment
                  is required for it to be an authorised development or a
                  lawful subdivision.

(3) Any rectification order under subsection (2)(c) —

      (a) may include a requirement —

             (i) to demolish or remove any fence or partition
                  enclosing the land or any structure erected on the
                  land resulting from any unlawful development,
                  subdivision or activity mentioned in subsection (2),
                  and to dispose of the fence, partition or structure and
                  any resulting debris from the demolition; or

            (ii) to stop, either wholly or to the extent specified in the
                  rectification order, any controlled activity; and

      (b) takes effect despite the provisions of any other written law
           or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
           association, trust deed or other constitution of the person
           given the order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     53

 (4) A rectification order must state the period within which —

       (a) the person must comply with the rectification order (called
            in this Act the compliance period), which must be at least
            14 days after the order is given; and

       (b) the person may appeal against the rectification order if the
            person objects to and does not wish to comply with the
            rectification order.

 (5) The compliance period for a rectification order must not be
longer than the objection period specified in that rectification order.

 (6) A person who —

       (a) is given a rectification order under subsection (2)(c); and

       (b) does not appeal against the order within the time delimited
            by this Act for appeals,

must take, so far as is reasonably practicable and at the person’s cost,
such steps as are necessary to comply with the rectification order
within the compliance period specified in that order.

 (7) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $200,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Amount of penalty tax

 41.—(1) Subject to sections 42 and 43, the amount of penalty tax
payable upon the giving of a rectification order under section 40(1)(d)
or (2)(d) is the total of the following:

       (a) the amount of the land betterment charge that would have
            been payable as if a chargeable consent were given, on the
            date of the rectification order or a later date specified in
            that order, in relation to the development or subdivision of,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
54  NO. 11 OF 2021

            or the controlled activity with respect to, the land, that is
            the subject of the rectification order;

       (b) 30% of the amount in paragraph (a).

 (2) However, no penalty tax is payable upon giving a rectification
order to the person or persons with a material interest in the land when
the rectification order is given (each called in this Division a tax
payer) if the Authority is satisfied that the development or
subdivision of the land happened or the controlled activity was
carried on or stopped (as the case may be) solely because of
circumstances beyond the tax payer’s control (or if a person acted on
behalf of that tax payer, because of circumstances beyond either the
person’s or the tax payer’s control) but not amounting to financial
incapacity.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), it is for the tax payer to prove
that —

       (a) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
            in fact done to prevent the development or subdivision of
            the land, the carrying on of the controlled activity or the
            stoppage of the controlled activity, as the case may be; or

       (b) the tax payer (and the person acting on behalf of the tax
            payer) did not know and could not reasonably have known
            about the development or subdivision of the land, the
            carrying on of the controlled activity or the stoppage of the
            controlled activity, as the case may be.

Reduction in penalty tax for voluntary disclosure, etc.

 42. The Authority may in the following circumstances reduce the
amount of penalty tax payable upon the giving of a rectification order,
by using the percentages below in lieu of the percentage in
section 41(1)(b):

       (a) 6% of the amount of land betterment charge worked out
            under section 41(1)(a) if, before the Authority informs the
            tax payer given the rectification order that an investigation
            relating to the carrying out of any development or
            subdivision of the land or the carrying on of a controlled

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     55

            activity or the stoppage in carrying on a controlled activity
            (as the case may be) without the relevant chargeable
            consent is to be carried out, the tax payer discloses to the
            Authority or an authorised officer, in writing, sufficient
            information to enable the nature and extent of any
            development or subdivision of the land or controlled
            activity carried on or of the stoppage of a controlled
            activity (as the case may be) to be ascertained;

       (b) 24% of the amount of land betterment charge worked out
            under section 41(1)(a) if, after the Authority informs the
            tax payer given the rectification order that an investigation
            relating to the carrying out of any development or
            subdivision of the land or the carrying on of a controlled
            activity or the stoppage in carrying on a controlled activity
            (as the case may be) without the relevant chargeable
            consent is to be carried out and before the investigation is
            begun, the tax payer discloses to the Authority or an
            authorised officer, in writing, sufficient information to
            enable the nature and extent of any development or
            subdivision of the land or controlled activity carried on
            or of the stoppage of a controlled activity (as the case may
            be) to be ascertained.

Increase in penalty tax for concealment

 43. In lieu of the amount calculated according to section 41(1)(b),
the Authority may increase the amount of penalty tax payable upon
the giving of a rectification order by using 50% of the amount of land
betterment charge worked out under section 41(1)(a), if the Authority
is satisfied that —

       (a) the Authority has informed the tax payer given the
            rectification order that an investigation is to be carried
            out; and

       (b) before the investigation is completed, the tax payer (or a
            person acting on behalf of the tax payer) hinders or
            obstructs an authorised officer exercising functions under
            Part 8, or a designated valuer exercising functions under

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
56  NO. 11 OF 2021

            Part 8, for the purposes of determining the tax payer’s
            liability.

Recovery of penalty tax

 44. Any penalty tax imposed under this Division is recoverable as
if —

       (a) the penalty tax were a land betterment charge due and
            payable under this Act;

       (b) the rectification order imposing the penalty tax were a
            liability order; and

       (c) the rectification order imposing the penalty tax were a
            chargeable consent.

Evasion

 45.—(1) Any person who wilfully with intent to evade or to assist
any other person to evade payment of any land betterment charge —

       (a) makes any false statement, declaration or entry in any
            return required to be made under this Act or the
            Regulations;

       (b) gives any false answer, whether verbally or in writing, to
            any question or request for information asked or made in
            accordance with this Act; or

       (c) makes use of any fraud, art or contrivance or authorises the
            use of any such fraud, art or contrivance,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
penalty of 4 times the amount of land betterment charge which has
been underpaid in consequence of the offence, or which would have
been so underpaid if the offence had not been detected, and shall also
be liable to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (2) Whenever in any proceedings under this section it is proved that
any false statement or entry is made in any return furnished under this
Act or any Regulations by or on behalf of any person or any book of
accounts or other records maintained by or on behalf of any person,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     57

that person is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have made
that false statement or entry with intent to evade the land betterment
charge.

                                    PART 7

                                   APPEAL

Interpretation of this Part

 46. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the Authority not made upon a reference under
         section 47(4)(b):

              (a) a refusal to make a deferment determination under
                   section 20;

              (b) a cancellation of a deferment determination under
                   section 22(5);

              (c) the making of a liability order or a revised liability
                   order under section 25 or 27;

              (d) a refusal to approve a transfer of any deferred liability
                   to pay any land betterment charge under section 23;

              (e) the giving of a rectification order under
                   section 40(1)(d) or (2);

      “appellant” means the person making an appeal against an
         appealable decision given to that person.

Appeal to Minister

 47.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision
may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made —

       (a) for an appealable decision that is the making of a liability
            order or revised liability order — within 30 days after the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
58  NO. 11 OF 2021

            date the decision appealed against is given to the appellant;
            and

       (b) for any other appealable decision — within 14 days after
            the date that decision appealed against is given to the
            appellant.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

 (4) After considering an appeal, the Minister may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the appealable decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and refer the matter back to the Authority
            to reconsider the case.

 (5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (5).

Appeal does not excuse payment

 48. An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the appealable decision concerned or prevent the taking
of action to implement the appealable decision concerned, and unless
otherwise directed by the Minister under this section, that appealable
decision must be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

                                    PART 8

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act

 49.—(1) It is the function of the Authority to administer this Act.

 (2) In performing the functions conferred on the Authority by this
Act, the Authority must aim to strike what appears to the Authority to
be an appropriate balance between —

       (a) the desirability of funding from the land betterment charge
            (in whole or in part) the actual and expected estimated total
            cost of infrastructure required to support the development

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     59

            of land as a result of a chargeable consent, taking into
            account other actual and expected sources of funding; and

       (b) the potential effects (taken as a whole) of the imposition of
            any land betterment charge on the economic viability of
            any development of land.

 (3) Before making any decision under section 20 or 22 in relation to
a deferment determination, the Authority may consult with such
person or committee of persons specified by the Minister but, in
making such decision, the Authority is not bound by such
consultation.

Authorised officers

 50.—(1) The Authority may, in relation to any provision of this Act
or its subsidiary legislation, appoint —

       (a) any of its employees;

       (b) any public officer; or

       (c) any employee of a public authority,

to be an authorised officer for the purposes of that provision, either
generally or for any particular case.

 (2) The Authority may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Authority by any
provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation, to any authorised
officer, subject to any conditions or limitations that the Authority may
specify; and any reference in that provision of this Act or its
subsidiary legislation to the Authority includes a reference to such an
authorised officer.

 (3) However, nothing in subsection (2) authorises delegating —

       (a) the power of delegation conferred by that subsection;

       (b) any power of the Authority to make subsidiary legislation;
            or

       (c) any other power under section 14 to any individual who is
            not an employee of the Authority.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
60  NO. 11 OF 2021

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 51.—(1) An authorised officer may, with such assistants and
workmen as are necessary, enter at any reasonable time any land
which the authorised officer reasonably believes to be or may be the
subject of —

       (a) an application for a planning permission or conservation
            permission in relation to the land;

       (b) an application to the Authority to vary a restrictive
            covenant in a State title relating to the land; or

       (c) a lodgment of any plans for a development of the land
            deemed authorised without express written permission,

and do all or any of the activities mentioned in subsection (2) for the
relevant purposes.

 (2) An authorised officer may, after entering any land mentioned in
subsection (1), do all or any of the following:

       (a) examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the land;

       (b) make a still or moving image or recording of the land and
            any thing in or on the land;

       (c) inspect any document on the land and take extracts from, or
            make copies of, any such document;

       (d) take into or onto the land such equipment and materials as
            the authorised officer requires for the purpose of exercising
            powers in relation to the land;

       (e) operate electronic equipment in or on the land;

        (f) under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District Court,
            seize any thing found in or on the land which the authorised
            officer reasonably suspects is evidential material relevant
            to an offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation.

 (3) The power under subsection (2)(e) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any land includes the power —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     61

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            land and can be used with the equipment or in association
            with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the land to put the
            relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the land; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the land to transfer
            the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage device
            that —

               (i) is brought to the land for the exercise of the power; or

              (ii) is in or on the land and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the land,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            the land.

 (4) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, when an authorised officer
seizes any thing under this section.

 (5) In this section and section 52, “relevant purpose” means —

       (a) to determine compliance with this Act and its subsidiary
            legislation, including whether an offence under this Act or
            its subsidiary legislation has been committed;

       (b) to determine whether information provided to the
            Authority under a provision of this Act or its subsidiary
            legislation is correct; or

       (c) to investigate whether there are grounds to cancel a
            deferment determination.

Power to obtain information

 52.—(1) An authorised officer may by written notice require any
person to provide, within a reasonable period specified in the notice,
and in such form and manner as may be specified in the notice, all
documents and information which —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
62  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (a) relate to any matter which the authorised officer considers
            necessary for any of the relevant purposes; and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of that person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the person.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was an
            officer or agent or a representative of the person, to provide
            an explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person or individual to state, to the best of the
            knowledge and belief of that person or individual (as the
            case may be), where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Authority or an authorised officer in legible form.

 (3) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or any copy or extract thereof, provided
to the Authority or an authorised officer under subsection (1).

Power of designated valuer to obtain information

 53.—(1) A designated valuer may, at all reasonable times, enter any
land and exercise powers mentioned in section 51(2)(a) and (b), for
the purposes of carrying out a valuation of the land required by
section 9 or 28.

 (2) Where a designated valuer enters any land under subsection (1),
the owner or occupier of the land —

       (a) must answer any questions put by the designated valuer for
            the purpose of enabling a correct valuation to be made; and

       (b) when required by the designated valuer to do so, must
            generally provide to the designated valuer all information

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     63

            within the knowledge or in the possession of the owner or
            occupier that is necessary for that purpose.

 (3) A designated valuer may, by giving written notice to the owner
of any land, require that owner, within such reasonable time as may
be specified in the notice, to provide the designated valuer such
information, and to produce such documents, relating to the land as
may be required by the designated valuer for the purposes of carrying
out a valuation of any land required by section 9 or 28 and as may be
specified in the notice.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), a notice referred to in that
subsection may —

       (a) require information as to any one or more of the following
            matters:

               (i) the area, portions, lots, deposited plans, references to
                   title, situation, quality and use of the land that is the
                   subject of the request;

              (ii) the nature of the improvements thereon;

             (iii) any reservations, restrictions, covenants, easements
                   or rights in the nature of easements affecting the
                   land; or

       (b) require the production of any contract, or a copy of any
            contract, for the purchase of the land, any instrument
            incorporated or referred to in any such contract and any
            instrument or option relating to the purchase of the land by
            the owner, where the contract, copy, instrument or option is
            in the owner’s possession or control.

Offences for obstruction, etc.

 54.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person —

       (a) under section 17(2) by the Authority;

       (b) under section 52(1) by an authorised officer; or

       (c) under section 53(2) or (3) by a designated valuer,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
64  NO. 11 OF 2021

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document or information which the person has been
            required —

               (i) under section 52(1) by an authorised officer by a
                   notice to provide; or

              (ii) under section 53(2) or (3) by a designated valuer to
                   provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document or information
            required —

               (i) under section 17(2) by the Authority to provide;

              (ii) under section 52(1) by an authorised officer by a
                   notice to provide; or

             (iii) under section 53(2) or (3) by a designated valuer to
                   provide,

       (b) makes any statement which the person knows or ought
            reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person does not possess the document or information
            required; and

       (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
            person to obtain the document or information required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (4) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     65

information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Authority to issue evidentiary certificates in respect of certain
matters

 55.—(1) Upon receipt of an application in writing made by a person
in accordance with a form provided by the Authority for the purpose
and upon payment of a prescribed fee (if any), the Authority must
provide the applicant, in relation to any land, a certificate containing
information in relation to the following matters as at the date of the
certificate:

       (a) whether or not a liability order, revised liability order or
            deferment determination has been given applying to the
            land and, if such an order or determination has been so
            given, the date thereof;

       (b) where any land betterment charge is payable in respect of a
            chargeable consent relating to the land, whether an appeal
            against such a liability order, revised liability order or
            deferment determination is pending;

       (c) such other matters as may be prescribed by Regulations
            made under section 64.

 (2) A certificate issued under this section is, for the purposes of
determining a person’s liability for land betterment charge,
conclusive evidence of the information specified in the certificate
as at the date so specified —

       (a) where the applicant for the certificate is the owner of the
            land to which the certificate relates — in favour of that
            applicant and of any successor in title of the applicant who
            is a bona fide purchaser for value of the land; or

       (b) where the applicant is not the owner of the land to which
            the certificate relates — in favour of that applicant and, if
            the applicant becomes the owner of the land, of any
            successor in title who is a bona fide purchaser for value of
            the land.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
66  NO. 11 OF 2021

 (3) Subsection (2) does not operate —

       (a) in relation to any certificate that was obtained by
            misrepresentation or by fraudulent or improper means to
            which the applicant for the certificate was privy; or

       (b) in favour of an applicant for a certificate where any
            information specified in the certificate was to the
            knowledge of the applicant erroneous as at the date on
            which the certificate was issued.

 (4) Nothing in this section requires the Authority to provide a
certificate under this section as to any land betterment charge paid or
payable in respect of a chargeable consent relating to any land if the
Authority is of the opinion that the amount of that land betterment
charge could be revised or altered because of any proceedings taken
or that may be taken under this Act.

 (5) In this section, “purchaser” includes a mortgagee.

Protection from personal liability

 56. No liability shall lie personally against any member, officer or
employee of the Authority, any designated valuer or any other person
acting under the direction of the Authority or Chief Valuer (as the
case may be) for anything done or intended to be done in good faith
and with reasonable care in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act.

Consolidated Fund

 57. All land betterment charges and penalty tax collected and
recovered by the Authority under this Act, and all late payment
interest imposed under section 38, must be paid into the Consolidated
Fund.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     67

Composition of offences

 58.—(1) The Chief Executive of the Authority, or an employee of
the Authority authorised in writing by the Authority, may compound
any offence under this Act or the Regulations that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Offences by corporations

 59.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
68  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
         includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
         following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

              (a) action towards —

                     (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                          the provision creating the offence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     69

                     (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                          professional assessments of its compliance
                          with the provision;

              (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                   employees, agents and contractors are provided
                   with information, training, instruction and
                   supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                   comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                   as the provision is relevant to them;

              (c) action towards ensuring that —

                     (i) the equipment and other resources; and

                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

              (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 60.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
70  NO. 11 OF 2021

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE  71

and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any written law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 59;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

                                    PART 9
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Interface with other laws
 61. To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act limits section 31 of the
Singapore Land Authority Act 2001 with respect to an offence under
this Act or any of its subsidiary legislation or the powers of the
competent authority under the Planning Act 1998.

Service of documents
 62.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be

given to a person may be served as described in this section.
 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be given to an

individual may be served —
       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
72  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be given to a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be given to a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     73

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior consent to service
in that way.

 (7) However, this section does not apply to documents to be served
in proceedings in court.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
74  NO. 11 OF 2021

      “last email address” means —

              (a) the last email address given by the addressee
                   concerned to the person giving or serving the
                   document as the email address for the service of
                   documents under this Act; or

              (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
                   known to the person giving or serving the document;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Application to Government, etc.

 63.—(1) This Act binds the Government, but nothing in this Act
renders the Government, or the Minister for the time being charged
with the responsibility for finance in his or her capacity as a body
corporate, liable to any land betterment charge or prosecution for an
offence under this Act.

 (2) To avoid doubt, no public authority or other person is immune
from liability to any land betterment charge or prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the public authority or
person (as the case may be) is engaged to provide services to the
Government or is acting in any other similar capacity for, or on behalf
of, the Government.

Regulations by Authority

 64.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations prescribing matters which by this Act are required
or permitted to be prescribed, or which are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed, for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the Authority may, with the approval of the
Minister, make Regulations to provide for any of the following:

       (a) the procedure for applying for a deferment determination
            or approval to transfer any deferred liability to pay any
            land betterment charge;

       (b) the procedure for appeals under Part 7;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     75

       (c) the fees payable with respect to processing applications for
            deferment determinations or approvals to transfer any
            deferred liability to pay land betterment charges, or for any
            other service provided by the Authority in the
            administration of this Act;

       (d) the offences under this Act that may be compounded;

       (e) that any contravention of any provision of the Regulations
            is an offence and that the penalty for which on conviction
            may be a fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or both;

        (f) such saving, transitional, and other consequential,
            incidental and supplemental provisions as is necessary or
            expedient for the Regulations made under this section.

 (3) All Regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations for Valuation method and Table of Rates method,
etc.

 65.—(1) The Minister may make regulations which are necessary
or convenient to be prescribed, for carrying out or giving effect to the
Table of Rates method, such as providing for the rates and methods to
calculate a pre‑chargeable valuation and post‑chargeable valuation
for any land, which may be in one or more of the following terms:

       (a) by reference to location of the land in question;

       (b) by reference to the different intended and existing uses of
            the land in question;

       (c) by reference to the nature of the material interest of taxable
            persons;

       (d) by reference to the area of the land that is the subject of the
            chargeable consent given;

       (e) by reference to development intensity;

        (f) by reference to historical rates;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
76  NO. 11 OF 2021

       (g) by reference to the date or validity of any planning
            permission or conservation permission granted;

       (h) by reference to metrics that are the equivalent of planning
            parameters used to express written permissions under the
            Planning Act 1998 or the predecessor Act.

 (2) The Regulations made under this section may also —

       (a) provide for situations where the Authority does not have
            sufficient information, or information of sufficient quality,
            to enable it to establish any area of the land —

               (i) that is the subject of the chargeable consent given or
                   to be given; or

              (ii) that is an authorised development or otherwise in
                   lawful use;

       (b) set differential rates, supplementary rates, nil rates,
            increased rates or reductions;

       (c) provide for how liability for any land betterment charge is
            apportioned; and

       (d) prescribe any matter necessary or convenient for carrying
            out or giving effect to the Valuation method.

 (3) However, the Regulations made under this section prescribing
the rates and method to calculate a pre-chargeable valuation for any
land or for carrying out or giving effect to the Valuation method must
disregard —

       (a) any authorised development of the land that relates to one
            single dwelling‑house on the land if the development in
            respect of which a chargeable consent is to be given is for a
            use other than as land with only one single dwelling‑house
            on it;

       (b) any use of the land that is not an authorised development or
            is otherwise not in lawful use; or

       (c) any authorised development of the land prescribed in
            Regulations made under this section as excluded for this
            purpose.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     77

 (4) In this section, “single dwelling‑house” means one detached,
semi‑detached, linked or terrace house used or adapted for use wholly
or mainly for the purpose of human habitation.

 (5) The Minister may also make regulations under this section
prescribing —

       (a) the criteria for deferment determinations;

       (b) the disqualifying events for the cancellation of deferment
            determinations;

       (c) the prescribed percentage of the increase in the value of the
            land likely to accrue from the giving of a chargeable
            consent in relation to land, for the purposes of section 8;
            and

       (d) such saving, transitional, and other consequential,
            incidental and supplemental provisions as are necessary
            or expedient for the Regulations made under this section.

 (6) All Regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                   PART 10

AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Amendments to Planning Act 1998

 66. The Planning Act 1998 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the words “and for the imposition of
            development charges on the development of land” in the
            long title;

       (b) by deleting the definition of “development charge” in
            section 2;

       (c) by inserting, immediately after section 21, the following
            section:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
78  NO. 11 OF 2021

                  “Full payment of land betterment charge may be
                  condition precedent to written permission, etc.

                    21A. Despite any other provision in this Act, it is
                  lawful for —

                          (a) the competent authority or Minister to
                               refuse to grant written permission under
                               section 14 for a development or
                               subdivision of any land; or

                          (b) the competent authority to refuse to accept
                               a lodgment of any plans for a development
                               or subdivision of any land authorised by
                               notification in the Gazette made under
                               section 21(6),

                  if any land betterment charge that is payable under the
                  Land Betterment Charge Act 2021 with respect to the
                  development or subdivision is not paid in full and
                  where no deferment determination relating to the land
                  betterment charge is in force.”;

       (d) by deleting the words “, 29 or 39(7)” in section 22A and
            substituting the words “or 29”;

       (e) by repealing Parts 5 and 5A;

        (f) by repealing section 50;

       (g) by deleting paragraph (a) of section 60(1); and

       (h) by deleting subsection (4) of section 62.

Amendments to Singapore Land Authority Act 2001

 67. The Singapore Land Authority Act 2001 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after the words “recovery of” in
            section 6(1)(e)(iv), the words “any land betterment charge
            payable under the Land Betterment Charge Act 2021,
            and”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (e) of
            section 6(1), the following paragraph:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     79

                       “(ea) to cooperate and collaborate with the
                               competent authority in the discharge of its
                               functions under the Planning Act
                               (Cap. 232) or the Planning Act 1998,
                               when it is revised and citable by that
                               short title;”; and

       (c) by inserting, immediately after item 6 of the
            Third Schedule, the following item:

                  “7. All provisions of the Land Betterment Charge Act 2021.”.

Saving and transitional provisions

 68.—(1) Despite section 66(e), this Act does not apply to or in
relation to —

       (a) any development charge that is payable under the Planning
            Act 1998 by virtue of an interim order served under
            section 38 or 39 of the Planning Act 1998 before the date of
            commencement of section 66(e), and in respect of which
            proceedings under that Act for its recovery have started
            before that date; or

       (b) any temporary development levy that is payable under the
            Planning Act 1998 by virtue of any notice requiring the
            payment of the amount of temporary development levy
            issued under section 40B of the Planning Act 1998 before
            the date of commencement of section 66(e), and in respect
            of which proceedings under that Act for its recovery have
            started before that date,

and that development charge or temporary development levy (as the
case may be) continues to be recoverable under the Planning
Act 1998 as if section 66(e) were not enacted.

 (2) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister —

       (a) under section 39(7) of the Planning Act 1998 before the
            date of commencement of section 66(e); and

       (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of
            immediately before that date,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
80  NO. 11 OF 2021

the appeal may continue to be dealt with under Part 5 of the Planning
Act 1998 as if section 66(e) had not been enacted.

 (3) Except as provided in subsection (1) —

       (a) every interim order or final order served under section 38
            or 39 of the Planning Act 1998 before the date of
            commencement of section 66(e) requiring the payment
            of any development charge that is payable under the
            Planning Act 1998; and

       (b) every notice issued under section 40B of the Planning
            Act 1998 before the date of commencement of
            section 66(e) requiring the payment of any temporary
            development levy that is payable under the Planning
            Act 1998,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to
continue as if —

       (c) the interim order, final order and notice (as the case may
            be) are each a liability order or revised liability order given
            under this Act;

       (d) the development charge or temporary development levy
            that is the subject of the interim order, final order or notice
            (as the case may be) is a land betterment charge; and

       (e) the person given that interim order, final order or notice (as
            the case may be) is a taxable person.

 (4) Despite any provision of this Act, where the liability of a person
to pay any development charge or temporary development levy under
the Planning Act 1998 for the development of any land is deferred
under —

       (a) the Planning (Deferment of Payment of Temporary
            Development Levy by Charities) Rules 2016 (G.N. No.
            S 46/2016); or

       (b) the Planning (Deferment of Payment of Development
            Charge by Charities) Rules 2017 (G.N. No. S 232/2017),

and the deferment is in force on the date immediately before the date
of commencement of section 66(e), the liability is to continue, so far

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
LAND BETTERMENT CHARGE                                     81

as it is not inconsistent with Part 4, as if it were a deferment
determination under section 20.

 (5) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

 (6) Nothing in this section prejudices section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 18/12/2023
