THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                   TRADE UNIONS ACT 1940

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Trade Unions Act 1940

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

     APPOINTMENT OF REGISTRAR AND OTHER OFFICERS

3. Appointment of Registrar
4. Appointment of Assistant Registrars and other officers
5. All officers to be deemed to be public servants
6. Protection of public servants

                                        PART 3

                                  REGISTRATION

 7. Register of trade unions
 8. Necessity for registration
 9. Application for registration
10. Registration
11. Certificate of registration
12. Power of Registrar to call for further particulars
13. Power of Registrar to require alteration of name
14. Refusal of registration
15. Cancellation or withdrawal of registration
16. Power to stop payment of money held by financial institution
17. Appeal to Minister
18. Procedure on appeal
19. Consequences of failure to register or of cancellation of

         registration
20. Consequences upon dissolution of trade union

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                             2

          PART 4

          RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF TRADE UNIONS

Section   Disabilities of unregistered trade union
   21.    Immunity from civil suit in certain cases
   22.    Liability in tort
   23.    Liability in contract
   24.    Objects in restraint of trade not unlawful in case of registered
   25.    trade union
          Proceedings by and against trade union
   26.    Strike or industrial action
   27.

          PART 5

          CONSTITUTION

28.       Membership of minors and Government employees
29.       Membership of employees of specified statutory board or body
30.       Officers of trade union
30A.      Authority of officers, etc., to bind union without ratification
31.       Employees of trade union
32.       Powers of Minister in relation to sections 30 and 31
33.       Change of name
34.       Amalgamation
35.       Notice of change of name or amalgamation
36.       Effect of change of name or amalgamation
37.       Registered office
38.       Rules of registered trade union
39.       Secret ballot
40.       Notification of change of officers, etc.
41.       Notification of change of employees
42.       Notice of dissolution
43.       Trustees

                                        PART 6

                                     PROPERTY

44. All property vested in trustees
45. Devolution of property
46. Purchase or lease of land or buildings

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
3        Trade Unions Act 1940                                      2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS

Section  Application of funds
         Prohibition of payment of fines or penalties
   47.   Use of funds for political purposes and investment of those funds
   48.   Injunction to restrain misuse of funds
   49.   Treasurer to render accounts
   50.   Production of documents, etc., for examination
   51.   Annual returns
   52.   Inspection of accounts and documents
   53.
   54.

                                           PART 8

                            OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

   55. Penalty for misuse of money or property of registered trade
            union

   56. Supplying false information regarding trade unions
   57. Failure to submit returns
   58. General penalty
   59. Composition of offences
   60. Limitation of prosecutions
   61. Saving of offences under other written law

                                           PART 9

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   62. Act not to affect certain agreements
   63. Certain written laws not applicable to trade unions
   64. Service of legal process
   65. Notification in Gazette
   66. Regulations

            The Schedule — Matters for which provision must be made in
                                  the rules of registered trade union

An Act for the registration and control of the trade unions.
                                                                  [1 July 1941]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.     Trade Unions Act 1940                                 4

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Trade Unions Act 1940.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “combined federation” means a federation comprising 2 or more
         trade unions and one or more platform work associations;

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

      “delegate” means —

              (a) in relation to a trade union which is not a federation, a
                   person who is elected or appointed in accordance
                   with the rules of the trade union to attend and vote at a
                   meeting of the trade union on behalf of any number of
                   members of the trade union; or

              (b) in relation to a federation, a person elected or
                   appointed in accordance with the rules of the
                   federation to attend and vote at a meeting of the
                   federation on behalf of any of the constituent trade
                   unions or, in the case of a combined federation, any
                   constituent trade union or constituent platform work
                   association of the federation;

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

      “employer” includes the Government in respect of such
         employees or of such categories, classes or descriptions of
         such employees as from time to time are declared by the
         President by notification in the Gazette to be deemed to be
         workmen for the purposes of this Act;

      “executive” means the body, by whatever name called, to which
         the management of the affairs of a trade union or of any
         branch thereof is entrusted;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
5  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

   “executive employee”, in relation to an employer, means an
      employee who is employed in a managerial or an executive
      position by the employer;

   “federation” means a federation of 2 or more trade unions, and
      includes a combined federation;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

   “lockout” means the closing of a place of employment or the
      suspension of work, or the refusal by an employer to continue
      to employ any number of persons employed by him in
      consequence of a dispute, done with a view to compelling
      those persons, or to aid another employer in compelling
      persons employed by him, to accept terms or conditions of or
      affecting employment;

   “non‑executive employee”, in relation to an employer, means an
      employee other than an executive employee;

   “officer”, in relation to a trade union, includes any member of
      the executive thereof and any member of any committee,
      provision for which is made in the rules of the trade union,
      but does not include an auditor;

   “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
      Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

   “platform work association” has the meaning given by
      section 19 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

   “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
      Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                          [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

   “register” means the register of trade unions maintained by the
      Registrar under section 7;

   “registered office” means the office of a trade union which is
      registered under this Act as the head office of the trade union;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    6

“registered platform work association” means a platform work
   association registered under the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“registered trade union” means a trade union registered under
   this Act;

“Registrar” means the person for the time being appointed by the
   Minister under section 3 by name or by office to be or to act
   as Registrar of Trade Unions, and includes any person
   appointed by the Minister under section 4 to be or to act as an
   Assistant Registrar of Trade Unions;

“requisite consent” —

          (a) in relation to a trade union which is not a federation,
               means the consent, obtained by secret ballot, of —

          (i) the majority of the members of the trade union
              voting on their own behalf on the matter for
              which consent is sought; or

          (ii) where the rules of the trade union allow or
               require a decision on that matter to be taken by
               means of voting by delegates and the decision
               is taken using that means, two-thirds of the total
               number of delegates representing the members;
               or

        (b) in relation to a federation, means the consent,
             obtained by secret ballot, of two-thirds of the total
             number of delegates representing the constituent
             trade unions and, in the case of a combined
             federation, also the constituent platform work
             associations of the federation;

                                                                       [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

“strike” means the cessation of work by a body of workmen
   employed in any trade, industry or calling acting in
   combination, or a concerted refusal, or a refusal under a
   common understanding of any number of workmen who are
   or have been so employed to continue to work or to accept
   employment;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
7  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

   “trade dispute” means any dispute between employers and
      workmen or between workmen and workmen, or between
      employers and employers which is connected with the
      employment or non-employment, or the terms of
      employment or the conditions of work, of any person;

   “trade union” means any association or combination of
      workmen or employers, whether temporary or permanent,
      whose principal object is to regulate relations between
      workmen and employers for all or any of the following
      purposes:

   (a) to promote good industrial relations between
        workmen and employers;

   (b) to improve the working conditions of workmen or
        enhance their economic and social status;

   (c) to achieve the raising of productivity for the benefit
       of workmen, employers and the economy of
       Singapore,

   and includes any federation;

   “workman” means any person who has entered into or works
      under a contract of service or apprenticeship with an
      employer, whether the contract is for manual labour,
      clerical work or otherwise, is express or implied, oral or in
      writing.

                                                                                                       [1/2015]

                                    PART 2

  APPOINTMENT OF REGISTRAR AND OTHER OFFICERS

Appointment of Registrar

 3. The Minister shall appoint a Registrar of Trade Unions who shall
be responsible for the due performance of the duties and functions
assigned to him as Registrar under this Act.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    8

Appointment of Assistant Registrars and other officers

 4. The Minister may appoint one or more Assistant Registrars of
Trade Unions and such other officers as may from time to time be
required for the purposes of this Act.

All officers to be deemed to be public servants

 5. All officers appointed under sections 3 and 4 shall be deemed to
be public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Protection of public servants

 6. No suit shall lie against any public servant for anything done or
omitted to be done by him in good faith without negligence and in
intended exercise of any power or performance of any duty provided
or imposed by this Act.

                                    PART 3

                              REGISTRATION

Register of trade unions

 7.—(1) The Registrar shall keep and maintain a register of trade
unions which shall contain such particulars of each registered trade
union as may be prescribed.

 (2) The register may be kept in whole or in part in an electronic
form.

 (3) The Registrar may require an officer or member of a registered
trade union to produce such document or provide such information as
the Registrar may require for the purposes of maintaining the register.

 (4) The Registrar may order the destruction of any document in the
registry after the document has been microfilmed or converted to
electronic form.

 (5) A certified copy of any entry in the register shall be conclusive
proof of the facts specified therein as on the date of such certified
copy.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
9  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

Necessity for registration

 8.—(1) Every trade union shall apply to be registered under this Act
within a period of one month reckoned from the date on which it is so
established.

 (2) The Registrar may, if he thinks fit, from time to time, grant an
extension of the period specified in subsection (1), provided that no
such period shall, in any particular case, be so extended as to exceed a
period of 6 months in the aggregate.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a trade union is established on the
first date on which any workmen or employers agree to become or to
create an association or combination for the furtherance of any one or
more of the objects specified in the definition of a trade union in
section 2.

 (4) For the purpose of prosecuting any trade union which fails to
apply for registration in accordance with this section, the date of
establishment of that trade union shall, in the absence of proof of the
date referred to in subsection (3), be deemed to be —

   (a) the date on which any person is proved to have been
        accepted or admitted as a member of that trade union; or

   (b) the date on which any act is proved to have been done by
        that trade union in furtherance of any one or more of the
        objects specified in the definition of a trade union in
        section 2.

 (5) Where proof is available of both the dates referred to in
subsection (4)(a) and (b), the earlier of such dates shall be deemed so
to be the date of the establishment of that trade union.

Application for registration

 9.—(1) Every application for registration of any association or
combination of workmen or employers as a trade union shall be made
to the Registrar in the prescribed form and shall be signed by at least
7 members of the trade union, any of whom may be officers thereof.

 (2) Every application shall be made in the prescribed form and shall
be accompanied by —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    10

(a) the prescribed fee;

(b) a copy of the rules of the trade union; and

          (c) a statement of the prescribed particulars of the members
              making the application and the officers of the trade union.

Registration

 10.—(1) If the Registrar is satisfied —

       (a) that a trade union applying for registration has complied
            with the provisions of this Act;

       (b) that the objects, rules and constitution of the trade union do
            not conflict with any of such provisions and are not
            unlawful and that such rules and constitution are not
            oppressive or unreasonable;

       (c) that the trade union is not likely to be used for unlawful
            purposes or for purposes inconsistent with its objects and
            rules; and

       (d) that, where the trade union is an association or combination
            of workmen in a particular trade, occupation or industry, it
            is not likely to be used against the interests of the workmen
            in that particular trade, occupation or industry,

the Registrar may register the trade union in the prescribed manner.

 (1A) Where a federation applies for registration, the Registrar may
register the federation if the Registrar is satisfied that, in addition to
the matters in subsection (1), the federation is not likely to be used
against the interests of —

       (a) the workmen in any trade, occupation or industry with
            which any constituent trade union is connected; and

       (b) in the case of a combined federation, also the platform
            workers providing any platform service with which any
            constituent platform work association is connected.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
11  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) or (1A), if any one of the
objects of a trade union is unlawful, the registration of the trade union
shall be void.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Certificate of registration

 11. The Registrar, on registering a trade union under section 10,
shall issue to the trade union a certificate of registration in the
prescribed form and that certificate, unless proved to have been
cancelled or withdrawn, shall be conclusive evidence for all purposes
that the trade union has been duly registered under this Act.

Power of Registrar to call for further particulars

 12. The Registrar may call for further information for the purpose
of satisfying himself that any application complies with section 9 or
that the trade union is entitled to registration under this Act.

Power of Registrar to require alteration of name

 13.—(1) If the name under which a trade union is proposed to be
registered is identical with that by which any other existing trade
union has been registered or, in the opinion of the Registrar, so nearly
resembles that name as to be likely to deceive or mislead the public or
the members of either trade union, the Registrar shall require the
persons applying for registration to alter the name of the trade union
stated in the application.

 (2) The Registrar shall refuse to register the trade union until the
alteration has been made.

Refusal of registration

 14.—(1) The Registrar may refuse to register any trade union if he
is —

       (a) not satisfied that the trade union has complied with the
            provisions of this Act;

       (b) of the opinion that any one of the objects or rules or the
            constitution of the trade union is unlawful or conflicts with
            any provision of this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    12

          (c) of the opinion that the constitution or any of the rules of the
              trade union is oppressive or unreasonable;

(d) of the opinion that the trade union is likely to be used for
     unlawful purposes or purposes inconsistent with its objects
     and rules;

          (e) of the opinion, where the trade union is an association or
              combination of workmen in a particular trade, occupation
              or industry, that the trade union is likely to be used against
              the interests of the workmen in that particular trade,
              occupation or industry; or

        (f) satisfied, where the trade union is an association or
            combination of workmen in a particular trade,
            occupation or industry, that there is an existing trade
            union registered in respect of that particular trade,
            occupation or industry.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) In addition to subsection (1), the Registrar may refuse to register
any federation if the Registrar —

(a) is of the opinion that the federation is likely to be used
     against the interests of —

          (i) the workmen in any trade, occupation or industry
              with which any constituent trade union is connected;
              or

          (ii) where the applicant is a combined federation, the
               workmen mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or the
               platform workers providing any platform service
               with which any constituent platform work
               association is connected or both; or

(b) is satisfied that there is an existing federation registered
     that comprises —

          (i) one or more trade unions in respect of the workmen
              in a particular trade, occupation or industry with
              which any constituent trade union of the applicant is
              connected; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
13  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

    (ii) where the applicant is a combined federation, also
         one or more platform work associations in respect of
         the platform workers providing a particular platform
         service with which any constituent platform work
         association of the applicant is connected.

                                                              [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Cancellation or withdrawal of registration

 15.—(1) A certificate of registration of a trade union may be
withdrawn or cancelled by the Registrar —

       (a) at the request of the trade union upon its dissolution to be
            verified in such manner as the Registrar may require;

       (b) if he is satisfied —

               (i) that the certificate of registration was obtained by
                   fraud or mistake;

              (ii) that any one of the objects or rules of the trade union
                   is unlawful;

             (iii) that the constitution of the trade union or of its
                   executive is unlawful;

             (iv) that the trade union is being used for any unlawful
                   purpose or for any purpose inconsistent with its
                   objects and rules;

              (v) that the trade union has rescinded any rule providing
                   for any matter for which provision is required by
                   section 38 or has wilfully and after notice from the
                   Registrar —

                    (A) contravened any provision of this Act or
                          allowed any rule to continue in force which
                          is inconsistent with that provision; or

                     (B) allowed any rule to continue in force which is
                          in the opinion of the Registrar oppressive or
                          unreasonable;

             (vi) that the funds of the trade union are expended in an
                   unlawful manner or on an unlawful object or on an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    14

          object not authorised by the rules of the trade union;
          or

          (vii) that the trade union has ceased to exist;

          (c) if he is satisfied in the case of a trade union of workmen in a
              particular trade, occupation or industry, that it is being used
              or is likely to be used against the interests of workmen in
              that particular trade, occupation or industry; or

(d) if he is of the opinion in the case of a trade union of
     workmen in a particular trade, occupation or industry and
     having regard to the existence of another trade union or
     other trade unions of workmen in the same trade,
     occupation or industry that it is necessary in the interests
     of the workmen in that particular trade, occupation or
     industry, to cancel or withdraw the certificate of
     registration of the trade union.

 (1A) In addition to subsection (1), a certificate of registration of a
federation may be cancelled or withdrawn by the Registrar if the
Registrar —

(a) is of the opinion that the federation is being used or is
     likely to be used against the interests of —

          (i) the workmen in any trade, occupation or industry
              with which any constituent trade union is connected;
              or

          (ii) in the case of a combined federation, the workmen
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or the platform
               workers providing any platform service with which
               any constituent platform work association is
               connected or both; or

(b) having regard to the matters in subsection (1B), is of the
     opinion that it is necessary in the interests of the persons
     mentioned in subsection (1B)(a)(i) or (ii) to cancel or
     withdraw the certificate of registration of the combined
     federation.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
15  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (1B) The matters mentioned in subsection (1A)(b) are the
following:

    (a) that a federation comprises —

    (i) one or more trade unions in respect of the workmen
        in a particular trade, occupation or industry; and

    (ii) in the case of a combined federation, also one or
         more platform work associations in respect of the
         platform workers providing a particular platform
         service;

    (b) the existence of any other federation which comprises —

    (i) one or more trade unions in respect of the workmen
        in the same trade, occupation or industry mentioned
        in paragraph (a)(i); or

              (ii) in the case of a combined federation, also one or
                   more platform work associations in respect of the
                   platform workers providing the same platform
                   service mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii).

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) Except in a case falling within subsection (1)(a), not less than
2 months previous notice in writing specifying the ground on which it
is proposed to withdraw or to cancel its certificate of registration shall
be given by the Registrar to a trade union before the certificate is
withdrawn or cancelled.

 (3) A trade union served with a notice under subsection (2) may, at
any time within a period of 2 months reckoned from the date of the
notice, show cause in writing against the proposal to withdraw or to
cancel its certificate of registration, as the case may be.

 (4) If such cause under subsection (3) is shown, the Registrar may
hold such inquiry as he may consider necessary in the circumstances.

 (5) The Registrar may, after the expiration of the period of 2 months
referred to in subsection (3), withdraw or cancel the certificate of
registration of any trade union which has failed duly to show cause
under that subsection, or which, having so shown cause, has failed to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    16

satisfy him that its certificate of registration should not be withdrawn
or cancelled, as the case may be.

 (6) An order made by the Registrar under this section withdrawing
or cancelling the certificate of registration of any trade union —

(a) shall be dated as of the date on which it was made;

(b) shall specify briefly the grounds for the withdrawal or
     cancellation of the certificate of registration; and

          (c) shall immediately be served on the trade union.

Power to stop payment of money held by financial institution

 16.—(1) Where a notice has been given by the Registrar to a trade
union under section 15(2), the Minister may, if he is satisfied that it is
likely that the funds of the trade union may be misused, by notice in
writing direct any financial institution not to pay or cause to be paid
any money out of or honour any cheque drawn on the account of the
trade union for a specified period not exceeding 3 months, except
with the written authorisation of the Registrar.

 (2) Where an investigation is being conducted by a public authority
regarding the improper use or misapplication of the funds of a trade
union, the Minister may by notice in writing direct any financial
institution not to pay or cause to be paid any money out of or honour
any cheque drawn on the account of the trade union for a specified
period not exceeding 3 months, except with the written authorisation
of the Registrar.

 (3) A financial institution which complies with a notice of the
Minister under subsection (1) or (2) shall be relieved of any liability
to any other person in respect of the payment prohibited by the notice.

 (4) Any financial institution which fails to comply with a notice of
the Minister under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (5) Where an offence under subsection (4) is proved to have been
committed with the consent and connivance of, or to be attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, secretary, manager,
accountant, sub‑accountant or other similar officer of a financial

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
17                     Trade Unions Act 1940                 2020 Ed.

institution, or a person who was purporting to act in such capacity, he
as well as the financial institution shall be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

(6) In this section —

    “financial institution” means a bank, a finance company, or any
       co‑operative society carrying on the business of managing
       and investing funds;

    “public authority” means the Registrar, the Commissioner of
       Police, the Commissioner of Inland Revenue and the Director
       of the Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau.

Appeal to Minister

 17. Any person aggrieved —

       (a) by the refusal of the Registrar to register a trade union;

       (b) by an order made by the Registrar under section 15; or

       (c) by the refusal of the Registrar to register a new rule or any
            alteration of any rule under section 38,

may appeal against the refusal or order to the Minister at any time
within a period of 30 days reckoned from the date of the refusal or
order.

Procedure on appeal

 18.—(1) Any appeal to the Minister under section 17 shall be
presented, considered and disposed of in such manner and in such
form as may be prescribed.

 (2) It shall be competent for the Minister after considering any such
appeal to —

       (a) confirm any refusal of registration or other order of the
            Registrar;

       (b) order the registration of any trade union;

       (c) order the registration of any new rule or alteration of any
            rule;

       (d) reverse any order made by the Registrar; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    18

          (e) make such order or give such direction as to the Minister
              seems just or necessary.

 (3) The decision of the Minister on an appeal under section 17 shall
be final and shall not be called in question in any court.

Consequences of failure to register or of cancellation of
registration

 19. If any trade union does not apply for registration in due time, or
if the registration of any trade union is refused, withdrawn or
cancelled, then —

       (a) the trade union shall be deemed to be an unlawful
            association and shall cease to enjoy any of the rights,
            immunities or privileges of a registered trade union, but
            without prejudice to any liabilities incurred or to be
            incurred by the trade union which may be enforced against
            the trade union and its assets;

       (b) the trade union shall not, nor shall any of its officers,
            members or agents on behalf of the trade union, take part in
            any trade dispute or promote, organise or finance any strike
            or lockout, or provide pay or other benefits for its members
            during a strike or lockout;

       (c) the trade union shall be dissolved; and

       (d) no person shall, except for the purpose of defending
            proceedings against the trade union or dissolving the trade
            union and disposing of its funds in accordance with the
            rules, take any part in its management or organisation, or
            act or purport to act on behalf of the trade union or as an
            officer of the trade union.

Consequences upon dissolution of trade union

 20.—(1) Upon the dissolution of a trade union under section 19 —

       (a) the property of the trade union shall immediately vest in
            the Official Receiver; and

       (b) the Official Receiver shall proceed to wind up the affairs of
            the trade union and after satisfying and providing for all

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
19  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

    debts and liabilities of the trade union and the costs of
    winding up shall pay the surplus assets, if any, of the trade
    union —

    (i) where the Minister so directs, into the Workers’ Fund
        as defined in the Work Injury Compensation
        Act 2019; or

              (ii) in the absence of a direction from the Minister, in
                   accordance with the rules of the trade union.

                                                                                                 [5/2008; 27/2019]

 (2) Where no direction is given by the Minister under
subsection (1)(b)(i) and the surplus assets or part thereof cannot be
distributed in accordance with the rules of the trade union either
because the members cannot be found, or no meeting of the members
is possible or for any other good and sufficient reason, the surplus
assets shall be paid into the Workers’ Fund.

 (3) For the purpose of winding up the affairs of the trade union, the
Official Receiver shall have all the powers vested in the Official
Receiver under the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 for the purpose of discovery of the property of a debtor,
the realisation thereof and the winding up of a company, and the
provisions of that Act shall apply, with the necessary modifications,
to the winding up of the affairs of a trade union under this Act.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

                                    PART 4
         RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES OF TRADE UNIONS
Disabilities of unregistered trade union
 21. A trade union shall not enjoy any of the rights, immunities or
privileges of a registered trade union until it is registered.

Immunity from civil suit in certain cases
 22.—(1) No suit or other legal proceedings shall be maintainable in

any civil court against any registered trade union or any officer or
member thereof in respect of any act done in contemplation or in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    20

furtherance of a trade dispute to which a member of the trade union is
a party on the ground only that —

(a) the act induces some other person to break a contract of
     employment; or

       (b) it is in interference with the trade, business or employment
            of some other person or with the right of some other person
            to dispose of his capital or of his labour as he wills.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any registered trade union
which is a combined federation.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Liability in tort

 23.—(1) A suit against a registered trade union or against any
members or officers thereof on behalf of themselves and all other
members of a trade union in respect of any tortious act alleged to have
been committed by or on behalf of the trade union shall not be
entertained by any court.

 (2) Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of a trade union
or any officer thereof to be sued in any court touching or concerning
the property or rights of a trade union except in respect of any tortious
act committed by or on behalf of the trade union in contemplation or
in furtherance of a trade dispute.

Liability in contract

 24.—(1) Every registered trade union shall be liable on any contract
entered into by it or by an agent acting on its behalf.

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a trade union shall not be so
liable on any contract which is void or unenforceable at law.

Objects in restraint of trade not unlawful in case of registered
trade union

 25. The objects of a registered trade union shall not, by reason only
that they are in restraint of trade, be deemed to be unlawful so as to
render any member of that trade union liable to criminal prosecution

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
21  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

for conspiracy or otherwise or to render void or voidable any
agreement or trust.

Proceedings by and against trade union

 26.—(1) A registered trade union may sue and be sued and be
prosecuted under its registered name.

 (2) An unregistered trade union may be sued and prosecuted under
the name by which it has been operating or is generally known.

 (3) A trade union whose registration has been cancelled or
withdrawn may be sued and prosecuted under the name by which
it was registered.

 (4) An enforcement order for any money recovered from a trade
union in civil proceedings may issue against any property belonging
to or held in trust for the trade union other than the benevolent fund of
a registered trade union.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) Any fine ordered to be paid by a trade union may be recovered
by distress and sale of any movable property belonging to or held in
trust for the trade union in accordance with the provisions of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (6) In any civil or criminal proceedings in which a registered trade
union is a party such trade union may appear in such proceedings by
any one of its officers or by an advocate and solicitor.

Strike or industrial action

 27.—(1) A registered trade union (other than a registered trade
union which is a combined federation) shall not commence, promote,
organise or finance any strike or any form of industrial action
affecting the whole or any section of its members without obtaining
the consent, by secret ballot, of the majority of the members so
affected.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) A registered trade union (other than a registered trade union
which is a combined federation) the majority of whose membership
consists of non‑executive employees shall not commence, promote,
organise or finance any strike or any form of industrial action in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    22

connection with any trade dispute between members who are
executive employees that are represented by the trade union under
section 30A of the Industrial Relations Act 1960 and their employer.

                                                                                                             [1/2015]

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2A) A registered trade union which is a combined federation shall
not commence, promote, organise or finance any strike or any form of
industrial action affecting the whole or any section of its members.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (3) Any registered trade union which, and every member of its
executive who, contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$3,000.

 (3A) A registered trade union which is a combined federation
which, and every member of its executive who, contravenes
subsection (2A) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (4) The members of a trade union who commence, promote,
organise, participate or otherwise act in furtherance of any strike or
any form of industrial action —

(a) where the consent of the majority of the members so
     affected has not been obtained by secret ballot; or

(b) taken in contravention of the rules or by-laws of the trade
     union,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

 (5) No member of a registered trade union who is an executive
employee that is represented by the trade union under section 30A of
the Industrial Relations Act 1960 shall commence, promote,
organise, participate or otherwise act in furtherance of any strike or
any form of industrial action taken by the trade union.

                                                                                                             [1/2015]

 (6) No member of a registered trade union the majority of whose
membership consists of non‑executive employees shall commence,
promote, organise, participate or otherwise act in furtherance of any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
23  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

strike or any form of industrial action in connection with any trade
dispute between members who are executive employees that are
represented by the trade union under section 30A of the Industrial
Relations Act 1960 and their employer.

                                                                                                             [1/2015]

 (7) Nothing in subsection (2) or (6) shall preclude a registered trade
union referred to in those subsections or any member of a registered
trade union that is recognised by the employer in the manner
prescribed under Part 3 of the Industrial Relations Act 1960 as a
registered trade union representing that member from commencing,
promoting, organising, financing, participating or otherwise acting in
furtherance of any strike or any form of industrial action affecting the
member in accordance with subsection (1).

                                                                                                             [1/2015]

 (8) Any member of a registered trade union who contravenes
subsection (5) or (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (9) Any person who instigates or incites others to take part in or
otherwise acts in furtherance of a strike or any form of industrial
action —

    (a) where the consent of the majority of the members of a trade
         union so affected has not been obtained by secret ballot;

    (b) taken in contravention of the rules or by-laws of the trade
         union to which the majority of the persons taking part in
         the strike or industrial action belongs; or

    (c) taken in contravention of subsection (5) or (6),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $3,000.

 (10) For the purposes of investigating an offence under this section,
the Registrar may by notice in writing require any person who he
believes could assist him in his investigations to appear before him at
such place and time as stated in the notice.

 (11) Any person who fails or neglects without reasonable excuse to
comply with any notice under subsection (10) shall be guilty of an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    24

offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

 (12) Every person who has been required to appear before the
Registrar under subsection (10) shall state truly the facts and
circumstances of any strike or industrial action which he is
acquainted with.

 (13) If any person fails to comply with subsection (12), he shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

 (14) In any proceedings for an offence under this section, the onus
of proving that the requirements specified in subsection (1), (3), (4) or
(9) have been complied with shall be on the registered trade union, the
member of its executive or a member of the trade union or any
accused person, as the case may be.

 (15) In this section, “industrial action” means the adoption of any
practice, procedure or method in the performance of work which
would result in a limitation on output or production in any
occupation, service, trade, industry or business.

 (16) For the purposes of this section, where the majority of the
membership of a registered trade union consists of non‑executive
employees, the consent of its members who are executive employees
that are represented by the trade union under section 30A of the
Industrial Relations Act 1960 shall not be taken into account in
ascertaining whether the consent of the majority of the members have
been obtained under subsection (1).

                                                                                                             [1/2015]

                                    PART 5

                              CONSTITUTION

Membership of minors and Government employees

 28.—(1) A person above the age of 16 years may be a member of a
registered trade union, unless provision is made in the rules thereof to
the contrary, and may, subject to the rules of the trade union and
subsection (2), enjoy all the rights of a member and execute all

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
25  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

instruments and give all acquittances necessary to be executed or
given under the rules.

 (1A) In relation to a combined federation, subsection (1) does not
affect any requirement under the Platform Workers Act 2024 relating
to the minimum age of any member of a registered platform work
association which is a constituent of the combined federation.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) A member of a registered trade union who is under the age of
21 years, but above the age of 18 years, shall not be a member of the
executive or a trustee of the trade union unless he has obtained the
written approval of the Minister therefor.

 (3) No Government employee shall join or be a member of any
trade union or shall be accepted as a member by any trade union.

 (4) The President may, by notification in the Gazette, exempt from
subsection (3) either wholly or subject to such conditions as are in
such notification specified, any Government employees or any
classes, categories or descriptions of Government employees.

Membership of employees of specified statutory board or body

 29.—(1) No workman employed by such statutory board or body as
the Minister may by order specify, shall be a member of or shall be
accepted as a member by any trade union unless the membership of
the trade union is confined exclusively to persons employed by that
board or body.

 (2) Any trade union whose membership is confined to persons
employed by a statutory board or body specified by order under
subsection (1) shall not, without the prior approval of the Minister, be
affiliated to any other trade union or federation of trade unions whose
membership is not otherwise so confined.

 (3) Any order made by the Minister under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall be presented to Parliament as soon
as possible after publication.

Officers of trade union

 30.—(1) A person shall not act as an officer of a trade union or any
branch thereof, and shall be disqualified for election as such officer if

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    26

he is an undischarged bankrupt or has been convicted by any court of
criminal breach of trust, extortion or criminal intimidation, or of any
offence which, in the opinion of the Minister, renders him unfit to be
an officer of a trade union.

 (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply where the Minister is satisfied
that the person so convicted has reformed and has become fit to be an
officer of a trade union.

 (3) No person who is not a citizen of Singapore shall act as an
officer of a trade union or any branch thereof unless the prior written
approval of the Minister has been obtained.

 (4) Except where subsection (5) applies, not less than two-thirds of
the total number of the officers of every registered trade union shall
be persons actually engaged or employed in a trade, occupation or
industry with which the trade union is connected.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (5) In the case of a combined federation, not less than two-thirds of
the total number of the officers of the combined federation shall be
persons —

(a) actually engaged or employed in a trade, occupation or
     industry in which any constituent trade union is connected;
     or

(b) actually providing a platform service with which any
     constituent platform work association is connected.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Authority of officers, etc., to bind union without ratification

 30A.—(1) Notwithstanding any provision in any rules or resolution
of any trade union, the officers of a trade union and any other persons
duly appointed by the trade union to represent its members in
negotiations with a view to a collective agreement shall have the
authority to bargain collectively for and to bind all the members of the
trade union by a collective agreement without the need for ratification
by the members; and the decision of such officers or persons on any
matter in such negotiations shall be the decision of all members of the
trade union.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
27  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) Any provision in any rules or resolution of any trade union
(whether made before, on or after 5 May 2004) that is inconsistent
with subsection (1) shall be void to the extent of that inconsistency.

Employees of trade union

 31.—(1) A registered trade union may, subject to subsections (2)
and (4) and to the rules of the trade union, employ and pay such
persons as may be necessary for the purposes of the trade union.

 (2) A person shall not be employed by a registered trade union
under subsection (1) if he has been convicted by a court of a criminal
offence and has not received a free pardon in respect thereof, and such
conviction in the opinion of the Minister renders him unfit to be
employed by a trade union.

 (3) Subsection (2) shall not apply where the Minister is satisfied
that the person so convicted has reformed and has become fit to be
employed by a trade union.

 (4) No person who is not a citizen of Singapore shall be employed
by a registered trade union under subsection (1) unless the prior
written approval of the Minister has been obtained.

Powers of Minister in relation to sections 30 and 31

 32. The Minister may by order —

       (a) declare that section 30 or 31 shall not apply to any
            registered trade union or class of registered trade unions
            specified in the order; or

       (b) grant, either absolutely or subject to such conditions as he
            may consider reasonably necessary, exemption from all or
            any provision of section 30 or 31 in respect of officers or
            employees or such proportion or class of officers or
            employees of any registered trade union or class of
            registered trade unions as may be specified in the order.

Change of name

 33. A registered trade union shall not change its name except with
the requisite consent of —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.              Trade Unions Act 1940                        28

(a) its members; or

(b) where the trade union is a federation, its constituent trade
     unions and, in the case of a combined federation, its
     constituent trade unions and constituent platform work
     associations.

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Amalgamation

 34.—(1) Any 2 or more registered trade unions may become
amalgamated as one trade union if each of the trade unions has the
requisite consent of —

(a) its members;

                                             [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

(b) where the trade union is a federation, its constituent trade
     unions; or

                                                                    [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          (c) where the trade union is a combined federation, its
              constituent trade unions and constituent platform work
              associations,

to the amalgamation.

                                             [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) The amalgamation may be undertaken with or without
dissolution or division of the funds of the trade unions or either or
any of them.

Notice of change of name or amalgamation

 35.—(1) Notice in writing shall be given to the Registrar of every
change of name and every amalgamation, signed —

       (a) in the case of a change of name, by the secretary and
            7 members of the registered trade union changing its name;
            and

       (b) in the case of an amalgamation, by the secretary and
            7 members of every registered trade union which is a party
            to the amalgamation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
29  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the trade union referred to in subsection (1)(a) or (b) is a
federation, the notice shall be signed by the secretary and 7 delegates
representing one or more of the constituent trade unions of the
federation or, in the case of a combined federation, one or more of its
constituent trade unions and constituent platform work associations.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (3) If the proposed name is identical with that by which any other
existing trade union has been registered or, in the opinion of the
Registrar, so nearly resembles that name as to be likely to deceive the
public or the members of either trade union, the Registrar shall refuse
to register the change of name.

 (4) Subject to subsection (3), the Registrar shall, if he is satisfied
that the provisions of this Act in respect of change of name have been
complied with, register the change of name in the prescribed manner,
and the change of name shall have effect from the date of the
registration.

 (5) If the Registrar is satisfied that the provisions of this Act in
respect of amalgamation have been complied with and that the trade
union formed thereby is entitled to registration under section 10, he
shall register the trade union in the prescribed manner and the
amalgamation shall have effect from the date of the registration.

 (6) Any person aggrieved by the refusal of the Registrar to register
either a change of the name of a registered trade union or the trade
union formed by the amalgamation of any 2 or more registered trade
unions, may appeal against the refusal in the manner provided by
sections 17 and 18.

Effect of change of name or amalgamation

 36.—(1) A change in the name of a registered trade union shall not
affect any rights or obligations of the trade union or render defective
any legal proceeding by or against the trade union, and any legal
proceeding which might have been continued or commenced by or
against it under its former name may be continued or commenced by
or against it under its new name.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    30

 (2) An amalgamation of 2 or more registered trade unions shall not
prejudice any right of either or any such trade unions or any right of a
creditor of either or any of them.

Registered office

 37.—(1) Every registered trade union shall have a registered office
to which all communications and notices may be addressed.

 (2) Notice of the situation of such registered office, and of any
change therein, shall be given to the Registrar and shall be registered
by him, and the trade union shall not be deemed to have complied
with the provisions of this Act until such notice has been given.

 (3) Every trade union which —

       (a) operates without having a registered office, or without
            giving notice of the situation of its registered office as
            required under this section; or

       (b) operates at any place to which its registered office may
            have been removed, without having given notice of the
            change in the situation thereof to the Registrar,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a
District Court or Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding $50 for
every day during which it is so in operation.

 (4) Every officer of any trade union referred to in subsection (3)
shall be liable to be convicted and fined a like amount in respect of the
same offence.

Rules of registered trade union

 38.—(1) The rules of every registered trade union shall provide for
all matters specified in the Schedule and shall not be so altered or
amended as to cease to contain provision in respect of all such
matters.

 (2) A copy printed in English and in Malay or Tamil or Chinese of
the rules for the time being in force of any registered trade union shall
be prominently exhibited at the registered office thereof and shall be
furnished by the secretary of the trade union to any person on demand
on payment of the prescribed sum.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
31  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) A copy in English of every new rule and of every alteration
made in the rules of a registered trade union shall be sent to the
Registrar within 7 days of the making of that rule or alteration and
shall, subject to subsection (4), be registered by the Registrar on
payment of the prescribed fee.

 (4) The Registrar may refuse to register any alteration of the rules if
he is of the opinion that the new rule or altered rule is unlawful or is
oppressive or unreasonable.

 (5) In the case of any difference or dispute, the English version of
any rule or of any alteration of any rule shall prevail.

 (6) Every alteration of the rules of a trade union shall take effect
from the date of registration by the Registrar unless some later date is
specified in the rules.

Secret ballot

 39.—(1) The rules of a registered trade union relating to the taking
of decisions by secret ballot shall ensure that every member or
delegate, as the case may be, has an equal right, and a reasonable
opportunity to record his vote freely, that the results of the voting are
correctly ascertained and declared, and that the secrecy of the ballot is
properly secured.

 (2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the majority of the
membership of a registered trade union consists of non‑executive
employees, no rule of the trade union shall confer on any member
who is an executive employee that is represented by the trade union
under section 30A of the Industrial Relations Act 1960, the right to
vote in any secret ballot taken for the purpose of obtaining the consent
of its members to commence, organise, participate or otherwise act in
furtherance of any strike or any form of industrial action under
section 27(1).

                                                                                                             [1/2015]

 (3) For the purpose of satisfying himself that a secret ballot taken by
a registered trade union has been properly conducted, the Registrar
may —

       (a) order a person to deliver to him any ballot papers,
            envelopes, lists or other documents which have been

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    32

          used in connection with or are relevant to the secret ballot
          and which are in the possession or under the control of that
          person;

(b) take possession of any such ballot papers, envelopes, lists
     or other documents; and

          (c) inspect the same and retain them for such period as is
              necessary for such purpose.

 (4) Subject to subsection (3) or as may be provided in the rules of
the trade union, no person shall be allowed to inspect or copy any
such paper or document relating to a secret ballot.

 (5) A registered trade union and every officer of a registered trade
union who is able to do so shall, notwithstanding anything in the rules
of the trade union, take such steps as are necessary to ensure that all
ballot papers, envelopes, lists and other documents used in
connection with or relevant to a secret ballot shall be kept at the
registered office of the trade union for a period of 6 months after the
completion of the secret ballot.

 (6) The results of a secret ballot taken to decide any of the matters
set out in paragraph 8 of the Schedule shall be sent to the Registrar
within 7 days after the holding of the secret ballot by the secretary of
the trade union in such form as the Registrar may direct.

Notification of change of officers, etc.

 40.—(1) A registered trade union shall, prominently and in such
place that it may be easily read, exhibit —

       (a) at its registered office a notice showing the names and titles
            of the officers for the time being of the trade union; and

       (b) at the office of each branch a notice showing the names and
            titles of the officers for the time being of the branch.

 (2) When a person becomes or ceases to be an officer of a registered
trade union or a branch of a registered trade union or when the title of
any officer is changed, notice thereof in the prescribed form shall be
sent to the Registrar within 7 days thereafter by that trade union
together with the prescribed fee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
33  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) The Registrar shall, on being satisfied that the appointment or
election of the officer or the change is not contrary to the rules of the
trade union or of the provisions of this Act, thereupon alter the
register accordingly.

Notification of change of employees

 41. When a person becomes or ceases to be an employee of a
registered trade union or a branch of a registered trade union, notice
thereof shall be sent to the Registrar within 7 days thereafter by that
trade union in such form as the Registrar may direct.

Notice of dissolution

 42.—(1) When a registered trade union is dissolved, notice of the
dissolution signed by 7 members and by the secretary of the trade
union shall, within 14 days of the dissolution, be sent to the Registrar
and shall be registered by him if he is satisfied that the dissolution has
been effected in accordance with the rules of the trade union.

 (2) The dissolution shall have effect from the date of the
registration.

Trustees

 43.—(1) The rules of a registered trade union shall provide for the
appointment or election of trustees and for the filling of vacancies in
the office of trustees so that, as far as may be, there shall always be at
least 3 trustees of the trade union.

 (2) No person who is an undischarged bankrupt —

       (a) shall be appointed or elected as a trustee of a trade union;
            or

       (b) if so appointed or elected, shall remain as such.

 (3) Except with the approval of the Minister, no person who has
been convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty or any
other offence which, in the opinion of the Minister, renders him unfit
to be a trustee of a trade union —

       (a) shall be appointed or elected as a trustee of a trade union;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    34

(b) if so appointed or elected, shall remain as such.

 (4) No person who is holding the office of president, chairman,
treasurer, secretary or other similar office in a trade union or who is
not a citizen of Singapore shall be appointed or elected as a trustee of
the trade union without the prior written approval of the Minister.

 (5) When a person is appointed or elected as a trustee or ceases to be
a trustee of a registered trade union or branch of a registered trade
union, notice thereof shall be sent to the Registrar within 7 days
thereafter by the trade union in such form as the Registrar may
require.

 (6) Nothing in subsection (4) shall affect the appointment or
election of any trustee of a trade union who was appointed or elected
before 2 April 1983.

                                    PART 6

                                 PROPERTY

All property vested in trustees

 44. All property, movable or immovable, of a registered trade union
shall be vested in its trustees for the use and benefit of the trade union
and its members and shall be under the control of the trustees.

Devolution of property

 45. Upon any change in the office of any trustee, the Supreme Court
may, upon an originating application without notice made to it in that
behalf, make an order vesting the property of a registered trade union
in the trustees for the time being of the trade union for the same estate
and interest as the former trustee had therein, and subject to the same
trusts, without any transfer, conveyance or assignment.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]
                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Purchase or lease of land or buildings

 46.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and to any provision in its rules,
a registered trade union may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
35  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) purchase or take a lease of, for the purposes of the trade
         union and in the names of its trustees, any land or building;
         and

    (b) subject to any written or other law which may be
         applicable, sell, exchange, charge or lease any land or
         building purchased or leased by it.

 (2) A registered trade union shall not purchase or take a lease of any
land, or building, situated outside Singapore without having first
obtained the requisite consent of —

    (a) its members; or

    (b) where the trade union is a federation, its constituent trade
         unions or, in the case of a combined federation, its
         constituent trade unions and constituent platform work
         associations.

                                                                        [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

                                    PART 7

                        FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS

Application of funds

 47.—(1) Subject to subsection (1A), the funds of a registered trade
union may, subject to the rules thereof and to the provisions of this
Act, be expended only for the following objects:

       (a) the payment of salaries, allowances and expenses to
            officers of the trade union;

       (b) the payment of expenses for the administration of the trade
            union, including audit of the accounts of the funds of the
            trade union;

       (c) the prosecution or defence of any legal proceeding to
            which the trade union or any member thereof is a party,
            when such prosecution or defence is undertaken for the
            purpose of securing or protecting any rights of the trade
            union as such or any rights arising out of the relations of
            any member with his employer or with a person whom the
            member employs;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    36

(d) the conduct of trade disputes on behalf of the trade union or
     any member thereof;

          (e) the compensation of members for loss arising out of trade
              disputes;

          (f) allowances to members or their dependants on account of
              death, old age, sickness, accidents or unemployment of
              such members;

       (g) any other object which the Minister may, by notification in
            the Gazette, declare to be an object for which such funds
            may be expended.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (1A) Subsection (1) applies to a registered trade union which is a
combined federation (F) with the following modifications:

(a) a reference in subsection (1)(c) to the relations of any
     member with his employer or with a person whom the
     member employs includes a reference to the relations of —

          (i) any member of F who is a platform worker with any
              platform operator for whom the member provides a
              platform service; and

          (ii) any member of F who is a platform operator with any
               platform worker who provides a platform service for
               the member;

       (b) a reference in subsection (1)(f) to the unemployment of a
            member includes a reference to the inability of a member
            of F who is a platform worker to provide any platform
            service.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (2) Any moneys received for a specific purpose by a trade union
from its members, which the members are liable to pay in accordance
with its rules, shall not be used or applied for any other purpose
without the requisite consent of the members of the trade union.

 (3) Any moneys received for a specific purpose by a federation
from its constituent trade unions, which the constituent trade unions
are liable to pay to the federation in accordance with the rules of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
37  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

federation, shall not be used or applied for any other purpose without
the requisite consent of the constituent trade unions.

 (3A) Any moneys received for a specific purpose by a combined
federation from its constituent platform work associations, which the
constituent platform work associations are liable to pay to the
combined federation in accordance with the rules of the combined
federation, shall not be used or applied for any other purpose without
the requisite consent of the constituent platform work associations.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

 (4) Within 7 days from the date the requisite consent referred to in
subsection (2), (3) or (3A) is obtained, the secretary of the trade union
concerned shall notify the Registrar of the consent and provide to the
Registrar such information in respect of the consent as the Registrar
may require.

                                                                               [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

Prohibition of payment of fines or penalties

 48. The funds of a registered trade union shall not be applied either
directly or indirectly in payment of the whole or part of any fine or
penalty imposed upon any person by sentence or order of a court of
justice.

Use of funds for political purposes and investment of those
funds

 49.—(1) The funds of a registered trade union —

       (a) shall not be applied either directly or indirectly in payment
            of contributions to a political party or for a political
            purpose; and

       (b) shall, subject to the rules thereof and the provisions of this
            Act, be invested only in —

               (i) investments authorised by law for the investment of
                   trust money;

              (ii) interest-earning deposits in banks or finance
                   companies;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    38

          (iii) shares of co-operative societies established by any
                registered trade union or registered platform work
                association; or

                                                                      [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

          (iv) such undertaking, enterprise or scheme, the promoter
                or proprietor of which is the Singapore Labour
                Foundation or a company formed by or related to the
                Singapore Labour Foundation, as the Minister may
                approve for the purposes of this paragraph.

 (2) Subsection (1)(b)(i), (ii) and (iii) shall not render unlawful the
investment of the funds of a registered trade union which was
lawfully made before 2 April 1983.

 (3) In this section, “Singapore Labour Foundation” means the
Singapore Labour Foundation established under section 3 of the
Singapore Labour Foundation Act 1977.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a company shall be deemed
related to the Singapore Labour Foundation if it is related thereto
within the meaning of section 6 of the Companies Act 1967.

Injunction to restrain misuse of funds

 50. An injunction restraining any unauthorised or unlawful
expenditure of the funds of a registered trade union may be granted
on the application of any 5 or more persons having a sufficient
interest in the relief sought, or of the Registrar, or of the
Attorney‑General.

Treasurer to render accounts

 51.—(1) Every treasurer of a registered trade union and every other
officer thereof who is responsible for the accounts of the trade union
or for the collection, disbursement, custody or control of the funds or
moneys thereof, shall, upon resigning or vacating his office and at
least once in every year at such time as may be specified by the rules
of the trade union and at any other times at which he may be required
to do so by a resolution of the members of the trade union or by the
rules thereof, render to the trade union and its members a just and true
account of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
39  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) all moneys received and paid by him during the period
         which has elapsed since the date of his assuming office, or
         if he has previously rendered an account, since the last date
         upon which he rendered such account;

    (b) the balance remaining in his hands, at the time of rendering
         such account; and

    (c) all bonds, securities, or other property of the trade union
        entrusted to his custody or under his control.

(2) The form of account may be prescribed by regulations.

 (3) The account shall be verified by statutory declaration, and the
trade union shall cause the account to be audited by some fit and
proper person approved by the Registrar.

 (4) No trade union shall cause the accounts to be audited under
subsection (3) by the same person for a continuous period of more
than 5 years without the prior written approval of the Minister.

 (5) After the account has been audited, the treasurer or other officer
referred to in subsection (1) shall immediately hand over to the
trustees of the trade union, if required by them to do so, such balance
as appears to be due from him, and also, if so required, all bonds,
securities, effects, books, papers and property of the trade union in his
hands or custody, or otherwise under his control.

 (6) The Registrar may by notice in writing direct the attendance
before him, at the place and time set out in the notice, of any person
appointed to audit the accounts of a trade union for any purpose
related to the audit.

 (7) The Registrar may, if he thinks it necessary, by notice in writing
direct any trade union to —

    (a) cause the accounts to be audited by any person other than
         the person who first audited the accounts; or

    (b) cause the accounts to be further audited in such manner as
         the Registrar may require.

 (8) All expenses incurred by a trade union in complying with the
direction of the Registrar shall be borne by the trade union.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    40

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with the direction of the
Registrar under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (10) Any trade union which fails to comply with the direction of the
Registrar under subsection (7) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Production of documents, etc., for examination

 52.—(1) For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act,
the Registrar may by notice in writing direct any officer or employee
of a trade union to produce for his examination any books, accounts,
records and documents and to answer such questions relating thereto
as may be necessary.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) wilfully refuses or without lawful excuse fails to comply
            with the direction of the Registrar under subsection (1); or

       (b) wilfully withholds any information, or refuses to answer,
            or wilfully gives a false answer to any question put to him
            by the Registrar,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Annual returns

 53.—(1) The secretary of every registered trade union shall furnish
annually to the Registrar on or before the prescribed date in each year
a general statement audited in the prescribed manner, of all receipts
and expenditure during the period of 12 months ending on the last day
of March last preceding that prescribed date, and of the assets and
liabilities of the trade union as at that day.

 (2) The general statement referred to in subsection (1) shall be
accompanied by a copy of the auditor’s report and shall be prepared in
such form and shall comprise such particulars as may be prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
41  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) Together with the general statement referred to in
subsection (1), the secretary of each registered trade union shall
furnish to the Registrar a copy of all alterations or amendments of
rules, and of all new rules, and a list of all changes of officers, made
by the trade union during the period of 12 months preceding the last
day of March, and a copy of the rules of the trade union in force on
that day.

 (4) The Registrar may, on application made to him by a registered
trade union, by writing under his hand, substitute the day on which
the financial year of the trade union ends for the last day of March
referred to in subsections (1) and (3) and, if necessary, some other
date for the date prescribed for the purposes of subsection (1).

 (5) All the provisions of this section shall apply accordingly in the
case of the registered trade union referred to in subsection (4) as
though the date and the day so substituted were respectively the
prescribed date referred to in subsection (1) and the last day of March
referred to in subsections (1) and (3).

 (6) Every member of a registered trade union shall be entitled to
receive free of charge a copy of the general statement referred to in
subsection (1) and the secretary of each registered trade union shall
deliver a copy of that statement to every member of his trade union
who makes application to him therefor.

 (7) Any secretary of a registered trade union who fails to comply
with any requirement of this section shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction before a District Court or Magistrate’s
Court to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (8) Every person who wilfully makes or orders or causes or
procures to be made any false entry in or omission from any general
statement, copy or list delivered to the Registrar under
subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction before a District Court or Magistrate’s Court
to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    42

Inspection of accounts and documents

 54. The account books of a registered trade union and a list of the
members thereof shall be open to inspection by any officer or member
of the trade union at such times as may be provided for in the rules of
the trade union, and by the Registrar at any reasonable time.

                                    PART 8

                     OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Penalty for misuse of money or property of registered trade
union

 55.—(1) Where, on complaint made by a member of a registered
trade union, it is shown to the satisfaction of a District Court or
Magistrate’s Court that any officer or member of the trade union —

       (a) has in his possession or control any property of the trade
            union except in accordance with the rules of the trade
            union; or

       (b) has unlawfully expended or withheld any money of the
            trade union,

the Court shall, if it considers the justice of the case so requires, order
that officer or member to deliver all such property to the trustees of
the trade union and to pay to them the money so unlawfully expended
or withheld.

 (2) A complaint made under subsection (1) shall not be entertained
unless the Court is satisfied that the complainant is, on the date of that
complaint, a member of the registered trade union in respect of the
property of which the complaint is so made.

 (3) Any person bound by an order made under subsection (1) who
fails to comply with the terms thereof and the directions given therein
within a time to be specified in that order shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction by a District Court or Magistrate’s
Court to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
43  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

 (4) An order made under subsection (1) shall not affect or prevent a
prosecution of, or civil proceedings against, any such officer or
member.

Supplying false information regarding trade unions

 56. Any person who —

       (a) with intent to deceive, gives to any member of a registered
            trade union or to any person intending or applying to
            become a member of that trade union any document
            purporting to be a copy of the rules of the trade union or of
            any alterations thereto which he knows, or has reason to
            believe, is not a correct copy of such rules or alterations as
            are for the time being in force; or

       (b) with the like intent mentioned in paragraph (a), gives a
            copy of any rules of an unregistered trade union to any
            person on the pretence that those rules are the rules of a
            registered trade union,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a
District Court or Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Failure to submit returns

 57. If default is made on the part of any registered trade union in
doing any act, in giving any notice, or in sending any statement,
return or other document as required by this Act —

       (a) every officer or other person bound by the rules of the trade
            union or under the provisions of this Act to do such act, to
            give such notice, or to send such statement, return or
            document; or

       (b) if there is no such officer or person, every member of the
            executive of that registered trade union,

shall severally be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction by a District Court or Magistrate’s Court to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.         Trade Unions Act 1940                             44

General penalty

 58.—(1) Every person who, and every trade union which,
contravenes any provision of this Act shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction by a District Court or Magistrate’s
Court to a fine not exceeding $2,000 unless some other punishment is
provided for that offence by this Act.

 (2) Upon conviction of an unregistered trade union under
subsection (1), every person proved to have been a member of the
executive of that trade union shall be deemed severally to be guilty of
the offence for which the trade union was so convicted.

 (3) The District Court or Magistrate’s Court shall, after necessary
inquiry, declare in its finding and order the name of each person to be
deemed to be guilty and shall pass sentence upon him according to
law.

Composition of offences

 59.—(1) The Minister may by regulations prescribe any offence
under this Act as an offence which may be compounded.

 (2) The Registrar may, in his discretion, compound any offence so
prescribed by collecting from the person or trade union reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
$200.

Limitation of prosecutions

 60. No prosecution shall be instituted under this Act except by or at
the instance of or with the written consent of the Public Prosecutor.

Saving of offences under other written law

 61. The offences and penalties specifically defined and provided in
this Act are in addition to and not in substitution of those defined and
provided in any other written law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
45  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

    PART 9

    MISCELLANEOUS

Act not to affect certain agreements

62. This Act shall not affect —

    (a) any agreement between partners as to their own business;

     (b) any agreement between an employer and those employed
          by him as to such employment;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

    (ba) any platform work agreement as to the provision of a
          platform service (within the meaning given by section 3 of
          the Platform Workers Act 2024) by a platform worker; or

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/01/2025]

     (c) any agreement in consideration of the sale of the goodwill
          of a business or of instruction in any profession, trade or
          handicraft.

Certain written laws not applicable to trade unions

 63. The provisions of any written law providing for the registration
or recording of societies shall not apply to a trade union and the
registration under any such written law of a trade union shall
thereupon be deemed to have been cancelled and to be void and of no
effect for the purposes of this Act.

Service of legal process

 64. Every summons, notice or other document required to be served
on a trade union in any civil or criminal proceeding shall be deemed
to be duly served if it is delivered at the registered office of the trade
union or if it is served personally on the president or the treasurer or
the secretary or on any officer of the trade union provided that such
service is otherwise in compliance with the requirements of any
relevant written law.

Notification in Gazette
 65. The Registrar shall notify in the Gazette the fact that —
       (a) any trade union has been registered;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    46

(b) the certificate of registration of any registered trade union
     has been withdrawn or cancelled;

          (c) any change of name or amalgamation affecting any
              registered trade union has been registered; and

(d) any registered trade union has been dissolved.

Regulations

 66.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of
carrying out or giving effect to the principles and provisions of this
Act.

 (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1), the Minister may make regulations for or in respect
of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) all matters stated or required in this Act to be prescribed;

       (b) the books and registers to be kept for the purposes of this
            Act and the forms thereof;

       (c) the manner in which trade unions and the rules of the trade
            unions shall be registered and the fees payable on
            registration;

       (d) the manner in which, and the qualifications of persons by
            whom, the accounts of registered trade unions or of any
            class of such trade unions shall be audited;

       (e) the conditions subject to which the register or any
            document kept by the Registrar may be inspected and an
            extract from or copy of an entry in the register or the
            document may be given, and the fees chargeable for the
            inspection, extract or copy;

        (f) the manner and method of filing applications, forms,
            notices, requests or returns under this Act or the
            regulations with the Registrar;

       (g) the due disposal and safe custody of the funds and moneys
            of a trade union;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
47  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    2020 Ed.

    (h) the creation, administration, protection, control and
         disposal of the benevolent funds of registered trade
         unions and all matters connected therewith or incidental
         thereto;

    (i) the presentation, consideration and disposal of appeals
        referred to in sections 17 and 18;

    (j) generally for all matters incidental to or connected with the
        matters or subjects specifically mentioned in this
        subsection.

 (3) The Minister may by regulations declare that any regulations
made under paragraph (h) of subsection (2) shall apply to a specified
trade union only or that any particular trade union or class of trade
union shall be exempt from the operation of any regulations made
under that paragraph.

 (4) All regulations made under this section shall be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 38(1) and 39(6)

MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MUST BE MADE IN THE RULES OF
                             REGISTERED TRADE UNION

 1. The name of the trade union and the place of meeting for the business of the
trade union.

 2. The whole of the objects for which the trade union is to be established, the
purposes for which the funds thereof shall be applicable, the conditions under
which any member thereof may become entitled to any benefit assured thereby,
and the fines and forfeitures to be imposed on any member thereof.

 3. The manner of making, altering, amending and rescinding rules.

 4. The appointment or election and removal of an executive and of trustees,
secretaries, treasurers and other officers of the trade union.

 5. The custody and investment of the funds of the trade union, the designation of
the officer or officers responsible therefor, and the annual or periodical audit of its
accounts.

 6. The inspection of the books and names of members of the trade union by any
person having an interest in the funds of the trade union.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Unions Act 1940                                    48

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 7. The manner of the dissolution of the trade union and the disposal of the funds
thereof available at the time of such dissolution.

 8. The taking of all decisions in respect of the election of officers, the
amendment of rules, strikes, dissolution and any other matter affecting the
members of the trade union generally, by secret ballot.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                TRADE UNIONS ACT 1940

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 3 of 1940 — Trade Unions Ordinance, 1940

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3786/1939

First Reading         : 11 December 1939

Second Reading        : 12 February 1940

Notice of Amendments  : 12 February 1940

Third Reading         : 12 February 1940

Commencement          : 1 July 1941

2. Ordinance 60 of 1941 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1941

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2892/1941

First Reading         : 13 October 1941

Second Reading        : 5 November 1941

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 1941

Third Reading         : 5 November 1941

Commencement          : 27 November 1941

3. Ordinance 33 of 1948 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1948

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 326/1948

First Reading         : 19 October 1948

Second and Third Readings : 9 November 1948

Commencement          : 24 November 1948

4. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 99 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
                      ii

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 99 of the Schedule)

5. 1955 Revised Edition — Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter 154)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

6. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

7. Ordinance 53 of 1959 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959

Bill                  : 4/1959

First Reading         : 15 July 1959

Second Reading        : 13 August 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 13 August 1959

Third Reading         : 2 September 1959

Commencement          : 11 September 1959

8. Ordinance 62 of 1959 — State Advocate-General (Transfer of Powers)
                                    Ordinance, 1959

   (Amendments made by section 5 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 22/1959

First Reading         : 13 August 1959

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 1959

Commencement          : 11 September 1959 (section 5 read
                            with the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
                         iii

9. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                     : 31/1959

First Reading            : 22 September 1959

Second Reading           : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments     : 11 November 1959

Third Reading            : 11 November 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                               with the First Schedule)

10. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement             : 20 November 1959

11. Ordinance 22 of 1963 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Ordinance, 1963

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 18 December 1963
Readings

Commencement             : 11 December 1963

12. Act 24 of 1966 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act, 1966

Bill                     : 69/1965

First Reading            : 23 December 1965

Second Reading           : 17 August 1966

Notice of Amendments     : 17 August 1966

Third Reading            : 17 August 1966

Commencement             : 25 August 1966

13. 1966 Reprint — Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter 154)

Reprint                  : 21 September 1966

14. Act 8 of 1967 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act, 1967

Bill                     : 4/1967

First Reading            : 27 February 1967

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 1967

Commencement             : 2 June 1967

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
                      iv

15. 1970 Revised Edition — Trade Unions Act (Chapter 129)

Operation             : 30 April 1971

16. Act 1 of 1973 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act, 1973

Bill                  : 43/1972

First Reading         : 22 November 1972

Second and Third Readings : 16 February 1973

Commencement          : 1 April 1973

17. Act 3 of 1977 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act, 1977

Bill                  : 2/1977

First Reading         : 28 February 1977

Second Reading        : 23 March 1977

Notice of Amendments  : 23 March 1977

Third Reading         : 23 March 1977

Commencement          : 15 April 1977

18. Act 28 of 1982 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill                  : 20/1982

First Reading         : 31 August 1982

Second Reading        : 3 December 1982

Notice of Amendments  : 3 December 1982

Third Reading         : 3 December 1982

Commencement          : 2 April 1983

19. 1985 Revised Edition — Trade Unions Act (Chapter 333)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

20. G.N. No. S 143/1989 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification) (No. 2)
                                  Order 1989

Operation             : 30 March 1987

21. Act 4 of 1992 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act 1992

Bill                  : 5/1992

First Reading         : 13 January 1992

Second and Third Readings : 27 February 1992

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
               v

Commencement   : 1 April 1992

22. Act 11 of 2000 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act 2000

Bill           : 6/2000

First Reading  : 17 January 2000

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2000

Commencement   : 15 December 2000

23. Act 23 of 2002 — Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Act)

Bill           : 25/2002

First Reading  : 8 July 2002

Second and Third Readings : 23 July 2002

Commencement   : 1 September 2002 (section 10)

24. Act 9 of 2003 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2003
     (Amendments made by section 15 of the above Act)

Bill           : 7/2003

First Reading  : 20 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 24 April 2003

Commencement   : 16 May 2003 (section 15)

25. Act 14 of 2004 — Trade Unions (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill           : 13/2004

First Reading  : 19 March 2004

Second and Third Readings : 20 April 2004

Commencement   : 5 May 2004

26. 2004 Revised Edition — Trade Unions Act (Chapter 333)

Operation      : 31 July 2004

27. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (33) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
                vi

Commencement    : 1 January 2006 (section 5 read with
                      item (33) of the First Schedule)

28. Act 5 of 2008 — Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 40 read with item (16) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 50/2007

First Reading   : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement    : 1 April 2008 (section 40 read with
                      item (16) of the Schedule)

29. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 110 of the Sixth Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 110 of the Sixth Schedule)

30. Act 1 of 2015 — Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 17 of the above Act)

Bill            : 41/2014

First Reading   : 3 November 2014

Second and Third Readings : 19 January 2015

Commencement    : 1 April 2015 (section 17)

31. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 520 of the above Act)

Bill            : 32/2018

First Reading   : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement    : 30 July 2020 (section 520)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
               vii

32. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 83(7) of the above Act)

Bill           : 21/2019

First Reading  : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 3 September 2019

Commencement   : 1 September 2020 (section 83(7))

33. 2020 Revised Edition — Trade Unions Act 1940

Operation      : 31 December 2021

34. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 216 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

35. Act 30 of 2024 — Platform Workers Act 2024

Bill           : 26/2024

First Reading  : 6 August 2024

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2024

Commencement   : 1 January 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2025
