THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                CONTROL OF VECTORS AND
                     PESTICIDES ACT 1998

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                                      2020 Ed.

         Control of Vectors and
          Pesticides Act 1998

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                 PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Act to bind Government
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2
                         ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

4. Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officers,
       etc.

                                        PART 3

       CONTROL OF PESTICIDES AND VECTOR REPELLENTS

 5. Pesticides and vector repellents to be registered, etc.
 6. Application for registration of pesticides and vector repellents
 7. Registration of pesticides and vector repellents
 8. Registration mark
 9. Register of pesticides and vector repellents
10. Cancellation of registration of pesticide or vector repellent
11. Removal of registration marks, surrender of stocks, etc., upon

         cancellation of registration
12. Appeals
13. Power to take samples of pesticides and vector repellents for

         analysis and to detain consignment
14. Penalty under this Part

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                              2

          PART 4

          DESTRUCTION OF VECTORS

Section   Prohibition on creating conditions favourable to vectors
   15.    Prohibition on breeding, etc., of vectors without
   16.    Director‑General’s permission
          Powers of Director-General to direct taking of measures
   17.    Enforcement of order under section 17
   18.    Prohibition on clearing undergrowth or vegetation under certain
   19.    circumstances
          Medical examination of persons suspected of being infected
   20.    with vector-borne diseases
          Spraying or fogging with pesticide
   21.    Power to require information
   22.    Penalty under this Part
   23.

                                        PART 5

            CONTROL OF VECTOR CONTROL OPERATORS,
                       TECHNICIANS AND WORKERS

24. Vector control operators to be registered
25. Vector control technicians to be licensed
26. Vector control workers to be certified
27. Vector control operator to employ licensed vector control

         technicians and certified vector control workers to carry out
         vector control work
28. Vector control technicians to be assisted only by certified vector
         control workers
29. Application for registration, licence and certificate
30. Duration and renewal of registration, licence or certificate
31. Suspension and cancellation of registration, licence or certificate
32. Appeals
33. Register of vector control operators, vector control technicians
         and vector control workers
34. Penalty under this Part

                                        PART 6
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

35. Power to enter premises, vessel or aircraft
36. Director-General may act in cases of emergency

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         Control of Vectors and

3        Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

Section  Owner and occupier to protect works
   37.   Penalty for damaging, etc., works
   38.   Damage to property of Agency to be made good in addition to
   39.   penalty
         Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
   40.   determined by court
         Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments
   41.   Fees, etc., payable to Agency
   42.   Liability of transferor of property
   43.   Persons unable to pay necessary expenses
   44.   Obstructing or hindering Director-General, etc., in performance
   45.   of duties
         Notice to attend court
   46.   Power of arrest
   47.   Person charged with offence to provide particulars if required
   48.   Offence by body corporate, etc.
   49.   Limitation of liability
   50.   Jurisdiction of court
   51.   Forfeiture
   52.   Composition of offences
   53.   Protection from personal liability
   54.   Receipts, notices, etc.
   55.   Service of documents, etc.
   56.   Inaccuracies in documents, etc.
   57.   Evidence of analyst
   58.   Exemption
   59.   Regulations
   60.   Transitional provision
   61.

An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the destruction of
  vectors and the control of vector‑borne diseases; to provide for the
  control of the sale and use of pesticides and vector repellents; to
  provide for the registration, licensing and certification of persons
  engaged in vector control work, and for matters connected
  therewith.

                                                          [1 September 1998]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.     Pesticides Act 1998                                   4

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act 1998.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “active ingredient” means any substance contained in a pesticide
         or vector repellent which is responsible for the effect that the
         pesticide or vector repellent has on vectors;

      “advertise” means to advertise, directly or indirectly, by means
         of spoken words or any form of printed or written matter or
         any other medium;

      “Agency” means the National Environment Agency established
         under the National Environment Agency Act 2002;

      “authorised officer” means any person appointed by the
         Director‑General of Public Health under section 4(2);

      “auxiliary officer” means an individual who is appointed as an
         auxiliary officer under section 16A(1) of the National
         Environment Agency Act 2002;

      “competent authority” means a competent authority appointed
         under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998;

      “container” includes anything in or by which a pesticide or
         vector repellent may be cased, covered, enclosed, contained
         or packed before application; and, in the case of a pesticide or
         vector repellent which is sold or carried or intended for sale
         or carriage in more than one container, includes every such
         container;

      “Director-General” means the Director‑General of Public
         Health appointed under section 3(1) of the Environmental
         Public Health Act 1987;

      “label”, in relation to the container or package of a pesticide or
         vector repellent, means any written, pictorial or other

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 Control of Vectors and

5                Pesticides Act 1998                        2020 Ed.

   descriptive matter marked on or affixed to the container or
   package;

   “Medical Officer of Health” means any registered medical
      practitioner who is engaged in vector control or
      epidemiological duties;

   “occupier” —

   (a) in relation to any premises, vessel or aircraft, means
        the person in occupation of the premises, vessel or
        aircraft or having the charge, management or control
        thereof, either on the person’s own account or as
        agent of another person; and

   (b) in relation to any part of any premises, different parts
        of which are occupied by different persons, means
        the person in occupation or having the charge,
        management or control of that part;

   “owner” —

   (a) in relation to any premises, vessel or aircraft, means
        the person for the time being receiving the rent of the
        premises, vessel or aircraft, whether on the person’s
        own account or as agent, trustee or receiver, or who
        would receive the rent if the premises, vessel or
        aircraft were let or chartered, and, in relation to any
        premises, includes the person whose name is entered
        in the Valuation List prepared under section 10 of the
        Property Tax Act 1960;

   (b) in relation to any premises where building works are
        being carried out, includes the developer;

   (c) in relation to the common property of any building
       erected on land comprised in a strata subdivision plan
       approved by the competent authority, includes the
       management corporation having control of the
       building, a managing agent appointed by a
       management corporation or by the Commissioner
       of Buildings under the Building (Strata Management)

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      6

               Act 2004, and a liquidator appointed for that
               management corporation;

                                                                     [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          (d) in relation to the limited common property of any
               building erected on land comprised in a strata
               subdivision plan approved by the competent
               authority, includes the subsidiary management
               corporation having control of that limited common
               property, and a managing agent appointed by a
               subsidiary management corporation or by the
               Commissioner of Buildings under the Building
               (Strata Management) Act 2004, and a liquidator
               appointed for that subsidiary management
               corporation; and

                                                                     [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          (e) in relation to the common property of any building
               sold under Part 4 of the Housing and Development
               Act 1959, means the Town Council which is liable for
               the maintenance and management of that common
               property;

“package”, in relation to any pesticide or vector repellent —

          (a) means any box, packet or other article in which one
               or more containers of the pesticide or vector repellent
               are or are to be enclosed; and

          (b) where any such box, packet or other article is or is to
               be itself enclosed in one or more boxes, packets or
               other articles, includes each of such boxes, packets or
               articles;

“pesticide” means any solid, liquid or gaseous substance or
   mixture or preparation of those substances, containing one or
   more active ingredients and used for vector control, but does
   not include any fumigant controlled under the Hydrogen
   Cyanide (Fumigation) Act 1947;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Control of Vectors and

7                    Pesticides Act 1998                    2020 Ed.

   “premises” means messuages, buildings, lands, easements and
      hereditaments of any tenure, whether open or enclosed,
      whether built on or not, whether public or private, and
      whether maintained or not under statutory authority, and
      includes any place or structure, or any part thereof used or
      intended to be used for human habitation or for employment
      or any other purpose;

   “registrant” means a person to whom the registration of a
      pesticide or vector repellent has been granted under section 7;

   “sell” means to sell by way of retail or wholesale dealing and
      includes barter, offering or attempting to sell, receiving for
      sale, having in possession for sale, exposing for sale, sending
      or delivering for sale, and causing or allowing to be sold,
      offered or exposed for sale;

   “supply” includes having in possession for the purpose of
      supply;

   “use” includes any act of handling, operating, dispensing,
      preparation, application, storage and disposal;

   “vector” means —

   (a) any insect, including its egg, larva and pupa; and

   (b) any rodent, including its young,

   carrying or causing, or capable of carrying or causing any
   disease to human beings;

   “vector control” means the destruction, or the prevention of the
      propagation or harbouring, of vectors;

   “vector control operator” means a person who, in the course of
      any trade or business, undertakes or engages in vector control
      work;

   “vector control technician” means a person who, for reward or
      under a contract of employment, carries out or supervises the
      carrying out of any vector control work;

   “vector control work” means any work carried out for the
      purpose of vector control;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      8

“vector control worker” means any person who, for reward or
   under a contract of employment, carries out any vector
   control work under the supervision of a vector control
   technician;

“vector repellent” means any solid, liquid or gaseous substance,
   or mixture or preparation of those substances, containing one
   or more active ingredients and used or intended to be used for
   repelling vectors;

“vessel or aircraft” includes any vessel or aircraft of any class or
   description.

                                    [47/2004; 4/2016]

Act to bind Government
 3. This Act binds the Government.

                                    PART 2

                      ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officers,
etc.

 4.—(1) The Director-General is responsible for the administration
of this Act, subject to the general or special directions of the Minister.

 (2) The Director-General may in writing appoint any of the
following persons to be an authorised officer for the purposes of
this Act:

       (a) a public officer;

       (b) an officer or auxiliary officer of the Agency;

       (c) an officer of any statutory authority;

       (d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                             [4/2016]

 (3) The Director-General may, by instrument in writing under the
hand of the Director‑General, appoint any person who in his or her

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Control of Vectors and

9  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

opinion is qualified to carry out any analysis, test or examination or to
make any report for the purposes of this Act.

 (4) The Director-General may, with the approval of the Minister,
delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties
imposed upon him or her by this Act to any authorised officer, subject
to such conditions or limitations as the Director‑General may specify.

                                    PART 3

   CONTROL OF PESTICIDES AND VECTOR REPELLENTS

Pesticides and vector repellents to be registered, etc.

 5.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) advertise any pesticide as being suitable for the purpose of
            vector control;

       (b) sell or supply any pesticide for the purpose of vector
            control; or

       (c) advertise, sell or supply any substance, mixture or
            preparation as being suitable for repelling vectors,

unless the pesticide, substance, mixture or preparation (as the case
may be) is registered under section 7.

 (2) A person must not sell any pesticide or vector repellent
registered under section 7 otherwise than in a container or package
to which is affixed or on which is printed a label that the
Director‑General has approved and that shows clearly and
distinctly the particulars prescribed by the regulations.

 (3) A vector control operator, vector control technician or vector
control worker must not use any pesticide for the purpose of carrying
out any vector control work unless the pesticide is registered under
section 7.

Application for registration of pesticides and vector repellents

 6. An application for the registration of a pesticide or vector
repellent must be made to the Director‑General in such form as the
Director‑General may require and must be accompanied by —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      10

(a) the prescribed fee;

(b) such particulars, information and documents as may be
     prescribed;

          (c) such samples of —

          (i) the pesticide or vector repellent and its container or
              package; and

          (ii) the label that is intended to be used in respect of the
               pesticide or vector repellent,

          (c) as the Director-General may require; and

(d) if required by the Director-General, a statutory declaration
     by the applicant verifying any information contained in or
     relating to the application.

Registration of pesticides and vector repellents

 7.—(1) On receiving an application under section 6, the
Director‑General must consider the application and may —

       (a) subject to subsection (2), register the pesticide or vector
            repellent (as the case may be) with or without conditions;
            or

       (b) refuse to register the pesticide or vector repellent.

 (2) The Director-General must not register any pesticide or vector
repellent unless he or she —

       (a) is satisfied that the pesticide or vector repellent conforms
            to the prescribed standards; and

       (b) approves of the label that is intended to be used in respect
            of the pesticide or vector repellent.

 (3) Where the Director-General has, under subsection (1)(b),
refused to register a pesticide or vector repellent, he or she must, if
requested to do so by the applicant, state in writing the reasons for the
refusal.

 (4) The conditions which the Director-General may impose under
subsection (1)(a) include —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

11  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

    (a) any condition restricting either or both of the following:

    (i) the use of any pesticide for the purpose of vector
        control;

    (ii) the persons or class of persons by whom any
         pesticide may be used for the purpose of vector
         control; and

    (b) any condition concerning the particulars to be shown on
         the label which is to be printed on or affixed to the
         container or package in which any pesticide or vector
         repellent is to be sold or supplied.

 (5) The Director-General may at any time vary or revoke any of the
existing conditions imposed under subsection (1)(a) or impose new
conditions.

 (6) Upon registering a pesticide or vector repellent, the
Director‑General must —

    (a) assign a registration number to the pesticide or vector
         repellent;

    (b) issue a certificate of registration to the registrant; and

    (c) make a record of the registration of the pesticide or vector
        repellent in the register maintained by the Director‑General
        under section 9.

 (7) The registration of a pesticide or vector repellent takes effect
from the date stated in the certificate of registration and remains in
force until it is cancelled under section 10.

Registration mark

 8.—(1) Where a pesticide or vector repellent has been registered by
the Director‑General under section 7, the registrant must cause a
registration mark to be shown clearly and in a conspicuous position
on the label on every container or package in which the pesticide or
vector repellent is to be sold or supplied.

 (2) The registration mark must be in such form and must contain
such particulars as the Director‑General may determine.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      12

Register of pesticides and vector repellents

 9.—(1) The Director-General must maintain, in the form that he or
she thinks fit, a register of all pesticides and vector repellents
registered under section 7.

 (2) Any person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, inspect the
register at any time during office hours.

Cancellation of registration of pesticide or vector repellent

 10.—(1) The Director-General may cancel the registration of a
pesticide or vector repellent if satisfied that —

       (a) having regard to any information received by him or her
            subsequent to the registration of the pesticide or vector
            repellent concerning the effects thereof, the hazards arising
            from the use of the pesticide for the purpose of vector
            control, or from the use of the vector repellent for the
            purpose of repelling vectors, outweigh the advantages of
            its use;

       (b) the pesticide or vector repellent is not being prepared in
            accordance with the particulars registered in respect of the
            pesticide or vector repellent, as the case may be;

       (c) the pesticide or vector repellent no longer conforms to the
            prescribed standards;

       (d) the pesticide or vector repellent is no longer available for
            purchase in Singapore;

       (e) the registrant has procured the registration of the pesticide
            or vector repellent by providing any false particulars,
            information or document or making any false statement or
            representation;

        (f) the registrant has failed to comply with any of the
            conditions subject to which the pesticide or vector
            repellent has been registered;

       (g) the container or package in which the pesticide or vector
            repellent is being sold or supplied or the label printed on or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

13  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

    affixed to the container or package does not comply with
    the prescribed requirements;

    (h) the pesticide or vector repellent is being advertised in a
         manner that is false, misleading or deceptive; or

    (i) the registrant has contravened any of the provisions of this
        Act.

 (2) Before cancelling the registration of a pesticide or vector
repellent, the Director‑General must serve a written notice on the
registrant requiring the registrant, within such time as may be
specified in the notice, to show cause to the Director‑General as to
why the registration of the pesticide or vector repellent should not be
cancelled.

 (3) If the registrant fails to show cause as mentioned in
subsection (2) within the specified time or within such further
period as the Director‑General may allow, the Director‑General may
cancel the registration of the pesticide or vector repellent as from a
date he or she specifies.

 (4) If the registrant complies with the notice, the Director‑General
must consider any representations or submissions made by or on
behalf of the registrant, and if the Director‑General is satisfied as to
any of the matters mentioned in subsection (1), he or she may —

    (a) cancel the registration of the pesticide or vector repellent as
         from a date he or she specifies; or

    (b) allow the registration of the pesticide or vector repellent to
         continue, subject to the terms and conditions specified by
         the Director‑General.

 (5) The Director-General must, as soon as possible, inform the
registrant in writing if the Director‑General —

    (a) cancels the registration of a pesticide or vector repellent
         under subsection (3) or (4)(a); or

    (b) allows the registration of a pesticide or vector repellent to
         continue subject to terms and conditions under
         subsection (4)(b).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      14

Removal of registration marks, surrender of stocks, etc., upon
cancellation of registration

 11. Upon the cancellation of the registration of a pesticide or vector
repellent —

(a) the person to whom the registration was granted must,
     unless the Director‑General otherwise directs, immediately
     take reasonable and necessary steps to have the registration
     mark removed, cancelled or obliterated from every
     container, package or label on which the person has
     printed or caused to be printed or to which the person has
     affixed or caused to be affixed, the registration mark; and

(b) the Director-General may, by written notice addressed to
     the person to whom the registration was granted, require
     that person to recall all stocks, or to cease the sale, supply
     or distribution, of that pesticide or vector repellent within
     such time as the Director‑General may specify in the
     notice.

Appeals

 12.—(1) Any person aggrieved by —

       (a) the imposition of any condition by the Director-General
            under section 7(1)(a) or (4) or section 10(4)(b);

       (b) the refusal of the Director-General to register a pesticide or
            vector repellent under section 7(1)(b); or

       (c) the cancellation of the registration of a pesticide or vector
            repellent by the Director‑General under section 10(3) or
            (4)(a),

may, within 14 days of the date of receiving the notice informing the
person of such imposition, refusal or cancellation (as the case may
be), appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) Even though any appeal under subsection (1) is pending —

       (a) any condition imposed by the Director-General under
            section 7(1)(a) or (4) or section 10(4)(b); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

15  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) any cancellation of the registration of a pesticide or vector
         repellent under section 10(3) or (4)(a),

takes effect from the date specified by the Director‑General, unless
the Minister otherwise directs.

Power to take samples of pesticides and vector repellents for
analysis and to detain consignment

 13.—(1) Where the Director-General or an authorised officer
knows or has reason to believe that any pesticide or vector
repellent is stored on any premises, vessel or aircraft, he or she
may, for the purpose of ascertaining whether the pesticide or vector
repellent is in contravention of this Act —

       (a) enter the premises, vessel or aircraft at all reasonable times,
            to take, without payment, any reasonable sample of any
            pesticide or vector repellent (including its container and
            package) found stored on the premises, vessel or aircraft
            for analysis or testing; and

       (b) seize or detain under normal storage conditions or take any
            necessary measures to prevent the removal or disposal of
            the whole consignment from which the sample is taken
            until a report of the result of the analysis or test is obtained.

 (2) Where the Director-General or an authorised officer has seized
or detained, or taken measures to prevent the removal or disposal of,
any consignment of pesticides or vector repellents under
subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General or authorised officer (as the
case may be) must immediately give written notice to —

       (a) the owner;

       (b) the consignor or consignee of the consignment; or

       (c) the agent of such owner, consignor or consignee,

if the name and address of the owner, consignor, consignee or agent
are known.

 (3) Any person aggrieved by any action taken by the
Director‑General or an authorised officer under subsection (1)(b)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.     Pesticides Act 1998                                   16

may, within 14 days of the action, appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

(4) A person must not —

(a) without the authority of the Director-General or an
     authorised officer tamper with, remove, distribute, sell or
     otherwise dispose of, the whole or any part of a
     consignment in respect of which the person knows or
     ought reasonably to know that the Director‑General or an
     authorised officer has taken any action under
     subsection (1)(b); or

(b) alter, counterfeit, deface, destroy, erase or remove any
     identification mark, label or seal affixed by the
     Director‑General or an authorised officer to the
     consignment.

 (5) The Director-General or an authorised officer may by notice
require the owner, consignor or consignee of the consignment from
which any sample is taken under subsection (1)(a) or the agent of
such person —

(a) to submit, at the person’s or agent’s own expense, the
     sample to an approved laboratory for the purpose of
     analysis or testing; and

(b) to produce the report of analysis or testing issued by the
     approved laboratory.

(6) Where —

(a) the result of the analysis or testing of the sample conducted
     under subsection (1)(a) or (5) confirms that the sample is
     not in contravention of this Act; or

(b) the Minister on an appeal under subsection (3) so directs,

the Director-General or an authorised officer (as the case may be)
must immediately release the consignment.

 (7) Where the result of the analysis or testing of the sample
conducted under subsection (1)(a) or (5) confirms that the sample is
in contravention of this Act, the Director‑General or an authorised
officer (as the case may be) may direct the owner, consignor or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

17  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

consignee of the consignment or the agent of such person to treat or
destroy or otherwise dispose of such consignment, at the expense of
such owner, consignor or consignee or agent thereof, in such manner
as the Director‑General or authorised officer thinks fit.

 (8) Where a person to whom a direction under subsection (7) is
given fails to comply with that direction, the Director‑General or an
authorised officer may take any steps that he or she thinks fit to —

    (a) secure the treatment, destruction or disposal of the
         consignment to which the direction relates; and

    (b) recover any costs and expenses reasonably incurred by him
         or her from that person in accordance with section 40.

Penalty under this Part

 14. Any person who fails to comply with any notice (except a notice
under section 10) or order made under this Part, or contravenes any of
the provisions of this Part, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
            not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 4

                     DESTRUCTION OF VECTORS

Prohibition on creating conditions favourable to vectors

 15.—(1) A person must not create, or cause or permit to be created,
any condition favourable to the propagation or harbouring of vectors.

 (2) Every person must comply with all such reasonable directions
as may be given by the Director‑General or an authorised officer with
a view to ensuring that such a condition does not arise or with a view
to terminating the condition.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      18

 (3) The directions may be given to the owner or occupier of any
premises, vessel or aircraft and to any person therein, including the
agents and servants of the owner or occupier.

 (4) If in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) it is
shown that the condition on any premises, vessel or aircraft is
favourable to the propagation or harbouring of vectors, it is
presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the condition is
created, or caused or permitted to be created, by the owner or
occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft.

Prohibition on breeding, etc., of vectors without
Director‑General’s permission

 16.—(1) A person must not breed, keep, collect, distribute, sell,
import or export any vectors without the written permission of the
Director‑General.

 (2) An application for the Director-General’s permission to breed,
keep, collect, distribute, sell, import or export any vectors must be
made in such form and must state such particulars as the
Director‑General may require.

 (3) The Director-General may refuse the application without giving
any reason.

 (4) The Director-General must not grant permission to any person
to breed, keep, collect, distribute, sell, import or export any vectors
unless the Director-General is satisfied that the application has been
made for —

       (a) a scientific purpose;

       (b) purposes of education or research; or

       (c) any other purpose that is acceptable to the
            Director‑General.

 (5) The Director-General may, in granting permission to any person
to breed, keep, collect, distribute, sell, import or export any vectors,
impose any conditions that the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (6) The Director-General may revoke his or her permission granted
under this section at any time without giving any reason.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

19  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

Powers of Director-General to direct taking of measures

 17.—(1) Where it appears to the Director-General that any
premises, vessel or aircraft or anything therein is or may become
favourable to the propagation or harbouring of vectors, the
Director‑General may make a written order addressed to the owner
or occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft.

 (2) The order made under subsection (1) may direct the owner or
occupier to carry out such vector control work or to take such
measure, as may be specified in the order, with regard to the premises,
vessel or aircraft for the treatment, destruction or removal of anything
on the premises, vessel or aircraft, so as to bring the premises, vessel
or aircraft into a condition unfavourable to the propagation or
harbouring of vectors.

(3) The Director-General may, in the order, direct that —

    (a) the vector control work or any other specified measure
         must be commenced on or before a specified date and must
         be completed within a specified period;

    (b) the vector control work must be carried out or any other
         specified measure must be taken at specified intervals over
         a specified period of time;

    (c) the vector control work or any other specified measure
        must be commenced within a specified period of time and
        continued until the premises, vessel or aircraft or anything
        on the premises, vessel or aircraft is no longer favourable
        to the propagation or harbouring of vectors;

    (d) any work being carried out on the premises, vessel or
         aircraft must be stopped either indefinitely or until the
         vector control work has been carried out or the specified
         measure has been taken to bring the premises, vessel or
         aircraft into a condition unfavourable to the propagation or
         harbouring of vectors; or

    (e) the vector control work must be carried out or any other
        specified measure must be taken by a registered vector
        control operator or a licensed vector control technician.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      20

 (4) The Director-General may, by written order, direct the occupier
of any premises, vessel or aircraft to cover, within a specified time,
and keep continuously covered, any specified tank, cistern, receptacle
or any manner of container in or appertaining to the premises, vessel
or aircraft, so that vectors are unable to enter therein, and where any
premises, vessel or aircraft is unoccupied, the order may be addressed
to the owner thereof as if the owner were the occupier.

 (5) In particular and without limiting the powers under this section,
the Director‑General may, in the order, direct the owner or occupier
of any premises to —

(a) drain any land in accordance with the specifications or in
     the manner specified in the order; or

(b) fill up inequalities in the surface of any land to a specified
     level,

so as to prevent the breeding of vectors or so as to keep the land
permanently free from standing water to an extent specified in the
order.

 (6) Despite subsections (1), (4) and (5), the Director‑General may,
if in his or her opinion the circumstances so warrant, himself or
herself cause any work or measure specified in those subsections to
be carried out or taken and recover the costs and expenses incurred
from the owner or occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft, as the
case may be.

 (7) Where an order served under subsection (1) requires that any
work being carried out on the premises, vessel or aircraft must be
stopped, and the owner or occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft
on whom the order was served fails to comply with such
requirements, the Director‑General may make a complaint to a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (8) The Magistrate’s Court may, upon application by the
Director‑General, make a summary order for the ejectment of any
person found carrying out or likely to carry out such work on the
premises, vessel or aircraft.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

21  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

 (9) Any person aggrieved by any order made by the
Director‑General under this section may, within 3 days of the
order, appeal in writing to the Minister.

 (10) Even though any appeal under subsection (9) is pending, an
order made by the Director‑General under this section takes effect
from the date stated in the order, unless the Minister otherwise
directs.

 (11) The Minister may, on an appeal made under subsection (9),
confirm, vary or rescind the order or make any other order which the
Director‑General is competent to make under this Act, and the
decision of the Minister is final.

Enforcement of order under section 17

 18. If the owner or occupier of any premises, vessel or aircraft on
whom an order made under section 17 has been served fails to comply
with the terms of the order, the Director‑General or an authorised
officer may —

       (a) enter the premises, vessel or aircraft with such assistants
            and things as are necessary; and

       (b) do anything necessary or required by the order to be done
            and recover the costs and expenses incurred (if any) from
            the owner or occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft.

Prohibition on clearing undergrowth or vegetation under
certain circumstances

 19. Where on any land there is any stream or seepage or running or
standing water to which shade may be afforded by the development of
undergrowth or other vegetation, a person must not cut down or clear,
or cause or permit to be cut down or cleared, any undergrowth or
vegetation within 6 metres of the stream or seepage or running or
standing water without the prior approval of the Director‑General.

Medical examination of persons suspected of being infected
with vector-borne diseases

 20. The Director-General may, by written notice, require any
person suspected of being infected with any vector‑borne disease to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      22

submit to medical examination and have his or her blood sample
taken for examination within the time specified in the notice, and if
the person is found to be infected, the Director‑General may require
the person to undergo treatment.

Spraying or fogging with pesticide

 21.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the
owner or occupier of any premises, vessel or aircraft or any pond,
well, pool or other body of water, to carry out the spraying or fogging
thereof with any form of pesticide within the time specified in the
notice.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Director-General may, if he or she
considers it necessary, himself or herself carry out the spraying or
fogging and recover any costs or expenses incurred from the owner or
occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft or pond, well, pool or other
body of water, as the case may be.

 (3) A person must not remove or render less effective any pesticide
sprayed or fogged under subsection (1) or (2).

Power to require information

 22. If, in the opinion of the Director-General, there is reasonable
ground for suspecting that any person possesses information relating
to the propagation of vectors or of the occurrence of any vector‑borne
disease, the Director‑General may require that the information be
produced, whether immediately or within the time specified by the
Director‑General.

Penalty under this Part

 23. Any person who fails to comply with any notice or order made
under this Part, or contravenes any of the provisions of this Part, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an offence under section 17, to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a second
            or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $50,000

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

23  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

    or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
    both; and

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both
         and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
         fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
         not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 5

        CONTROL OF VECTOR CONTROL OPERATORS,
                   TECHNICIANS AND WORKERS

Vector control operators to be registered

 24. A person must not —

       (a) in the course of any trade or business, undertake or engage
            in vector control work; or

       (b) advertise or otherwise hold himself, herself or itself out as
            a vector control operator,

unless the person is registered as a vector control operator under this
Act.

Vector control technicians to be licensed

 25. A person must not act as or carry out the work of a vector
control technician unless he or she is licensed or provisionally
licensed as a vector control technician under this Act.

Vector control workers to be certified

 26. A person must not act as or carry out the work of a vector
control worker unless he or she is certified or provisionally certified
as a vector control worker under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      24

Vector control operator to employ licensed vector control
technicians and certified vector control workers to carry out
vector control work

 27. A registered vector control operator must not employ or engage
any person —

(a) to carry out the work of a vector control technician unless
     that person has been licensed or provisionally licensed as a
     vector control technician under this Act; or

(b) to carry out the work of a vector control worker unless that
     person has been certified or provisionally certified as a
     vector control worker under this Act.

Vector control technicians to be assisted only by certified vector
control workers

 28. A vector control technician who is licensed or provisionally
licensed under this Act must not allow any person to assist him or her,
or to partake, in the carrying out of any vector control work unless
that person has been certified or provisionally certified as a vector
control worker under this Act.

Application for registration, licence and certificate
 29.—(1) A person who desires to be —
       (a) registered as a vector control operator;
       (b) licensed as a vector control technician; or
       (c) certified as a vector control worker,

under this Act may apply to the Director‑General in such form or
manner as the Director‑General may require.

 (2) An application made under subsection (1) must be accompanied
by —

       (a) the prescribed fee; and
       (b) such particulars, information and documents as the

            Director‑General may require.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

25  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the Director‑General may,
upon receiving an application under subsection (1) —

    (a) grant the registration, licence or certificate applied for
         either unconditionally or subject to any conditions that the
         Director‑General thinks fit; or

    (b) refuse the application.

(4) The Director-General must not —

    (a) register an applicant as a vector control operator unless the
         Director‑General is satisfied that the applicant is a fit and
         proper person to be so registered; or

    (b) grant a vector control technician’s licence or a vector
         control worker’s certificate to an applicant unless the
         Director‑General is satisfied that the applicant —

    (i) possesses the prescribed qualifications or practical
        experience; and

    (ii) is sufficiently competent, and in all other respects a
         fit and proper person, to be entrusted to carry out the
         work of a vector control technician or a vector
         control worker, as the case may be.

(5) Despite subsection (4)(b), where —

    (a) an applicant for a vector control technician’s licence or a
         vector control worker’s certificate does not possess the
         requisite qualifications or practical experience; or

    (b) the Director-General is not satisfied that an applicant is
         sufficiently competent to be entrusted to carry out the work
         of a vector control technician or a vector control worker, as
         the case may be,

the Director-General may, instead of refusing the application, require
the applicant to undergo such training and to take and successfully
complete such tests as the Director‑General may specify.

 (6) For the purpose of subsection (5), the Director‑General may,
subject to any conditions that he or she thinks fit, grant a provisional
vector control technician’s licence or a provisional vector control

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      26

worker’s certificate to the applicant to enable the applicant to carry
out the work of a vector control technician or a vector control worker
(as the case may be) while undergoing training.

 (7) The Director-General may at any time vary or revoke any of the
existing conditions imposed under subsection (3)(a) or (6) or impose
new conditions.

 (8) Where the Director-General has, under subsection (3)(b),
refused any application, he or she must, at the applicant’s request,
state in writing the reasons for the refusal.

 (9) Where a person is registered as a vector control operator under
this section, the Director‑General must issue a certificate of
registration to that person, and the certificate or a certified copy of
the certificate must be exhibited in a conspicuous place at the
principal place of business of that person and at every other place
where that person carries on business.

Duration and renewal of registration, licence or certificate
 30.—(1) Subject to section 31 —
       (a) the registration of a vector control operator;
       (b) a vector control technician’s licence; and
       (c) a vector control worker’s certificate,

granted under section 29(3)(a) is each valid for a period of 3 years
from the date of the grant and, subject to the provisions of this Act,
may each be renewed upon its expiry.

 (2) Subject to section 31 —
       (a) a provisional vector control technician’s licence; and
       (b) a provisional vector control worker’s certificate,

granted under section 29(6) is each valid for a period of 9 months
from the date of the grant and, subject to the provisions of this Act,
may each be renewed upon its expiry.

 (3) Section 29(2) to (9) applies, with the necessary modifications,
to an application for the renewal of —

       (a) the registration of a vector control operator;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

27  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

    (b) a vector control technician’s licence; or

    (c) a vector control worker’s certificate.

Suspension and cancellation of registration, licence or
certificate

 31.—(1) The Director-General may suspend or cancel the
registration of a vector control operator, a vector control
technician’s licence or a vector control worker’s certificate if the
Director‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) the grant of the registration, licence or certificate has been
            obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;

       (b) the person to whom the registration, licence or certificate
            has been granted is contravening, or has contravened or
            failed to comply with —

               (i) any of the provisions of this Act;

              (ii) any condition subject to which the registration,
                   licence or certificate (as the case may be) was
                   granted to the person; or

             (iii) any direction given to the person by the
                   Director‑General or an authorised officer under this
                   Act;

       (c) the person to whom the registration, licence or certificate
            has been granted has ceased to carry on business as a vector
            control operator, vector control technician or vector control
            worker, as the case may be;

       (d) in the case of a person who has been granted a provisional
            vector control technician’s licence or a provisional vector
            control worker’s certificate, that person has failed to
            complete the training mentioned in section 29(6); or

       (e) it is in the public interest to suspend or cancel the
            registration, licence or certificate.

 (2) The Director-General, before suspending or cancelling any
registration, licence or certificate under subsection (1), must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      28

(a) give the person to whom the registration, licence or
     certificate has been granted written notice of the
     Director‑General’s intention to do so; and

(b) in the notice call upon that person to show cause within
     such time as may be specified in the notice as to why the
     registration, licence or certificate should not be suspended
     or cancelled.

 (3) If the person to whom a notice has been given under
subsection (2) —

(a) fails to show cause within the period of time given to the
     person to do so or such extended period of time as the
     Director‑General may allow; or

(b) fails to show sufficient cause,

the Director-General must give written notice to that person of the
date from which the suspension or cancellation of the registration,
licence or certificate (as the case may be) takes effect.

                                                                                                             [4/2002]

 (4) For the purposes of this section —

(a) any reference to a vector control technician’s licence
     includes a reference to a provisional vector control
     technician’s licence; and

(b) any reference to a vector control worker’s certificate
     includes a reference to a provisional vector control
     worker’s certificate.

Appeals

 32.—(1) Any person aggrieved by —

       (a) the imposition of any condition by the Director‑General in
            granting or renewing any registration, licence or certificate
            under section 29 or 30;

       (b) the refusal of the Director-General to grant or renew any
            registration, licence or certificate under section 29 or 30; or

       (c) the suspension or cancellation of any registration, licence
            or certificate by the Director‑General under section 31,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

29  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

may, within 14 days of the date of receiving the notice informing the
person of such imposition, refusal, suspension or cancellation (as the
case may be), appeal in writing to the Minister whose decision is
final.

 (2) Even though any appeal under subsection (1) is pending, any
condition imposed by the Director‑General under section 29 or 30
takes effect from the date specified by the Director‑General, unless
the Minister otherwise orders.

 (3) If the person whose registration, licence or certificate has been
suspended or cancelled by the Director‑General gives due notice of
appeal to the Minister within the period referred to in subsection (1),
the suspension or cancellation (as the case may be) does not take
effect unless it is confirmed by the Minister or the appeal is for any
reason dismissed by the Minister.

(4) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) any reference to a licence includes a reference to a
         provisional vector control technician’s licence; and

    (b) any reference to a certificate includes a reference to a
         provisional vector control worker’s certificate.

Register of vector control operators, vector control technicians
and vector control workers

 33.—(1) The Director-General must maintain, in the form that he or
she thinks fit, a register of all registered vector control operators,
licensed and provisionally licensed vector control technicians and
certified and provisionally certified vector control workers.

 (2) Any person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, inspect the
register at any time during office hours.

Penalty under this Part

 34. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Part
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 3 months or to both; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      30

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
     not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Power to enter premises, vessel or aircraft

 35.—(1) The Director-General or an authorised officer may, with or
without assistants, for the purposes of this Act, enter any premises,
vessel or aircraft in order to make any survey, inspection or search or
to execute any works authorised by this Act.

 (2) Any Medical Officer of Health may —

       (a) medically examine any person on any premises, vessel or
            aircraft for the purpose of ascertaining whether that person
            is suffering from, or has recently suffered from, or is a
            carrier of, any vector‑borne disease, or whether that person
            has been recently exposed to infection by any such disease;

       (b) medically treat any person on the premises, vessel or
            aircraft who is suffering from any vector‑borne disease; or

       (c) cause a post-mortem examination to be made on any
            corpse found on the premises, vessel or aircraft for the
            purpose of ascertaining whether the cause of death has
            been due to any vector‑borne disease.

 (3) A person must not, except with the consent of the occupier
thereof, enter any dwelling-house by virtue of the powers conferred
by this section without at least 12 hours’ previous notice being given
to the occupier thereof, if any.

 (4) The owner or occupier of any premises, vessel or aircraft (as the
case may be) must supply any information that the Director‑General
or any authorised officer may require or consider to be reasonably
necessary for the purpose of this section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

31  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

Director-General may act in cases of emergency

 36. In cases of emergency the Director-General may direct the
immediate execution of any work or the doing of any act (being any
work or act authorised under this Act) which is in the opinion of the
Director‑General necessary for public health or for the safety of the
public.

Owner and occupier to protect works

 37.—(1) Where the Director-General or any department of the
Government has constructed any works with the object of preventing
the breeding of vectors, the owner or occupier of the premises on
which the works stand must prevent the premises from being used in
any manner that is likely to —

       (a) cause the deterioration of the works; or

       (b) lessen the efficiency of the works.

 (2) Where any such premises are used in a manner that causes the
deterioration, or lessens the efficiency, of the works —

       (a) the owner or occupier of the premises shall, subject to
            subsection (4), be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

       (b) the Director-General may enter the premises with such
            assistants and things as are necessary, execute any
            necessary repairs or works on the premises and recover
            from the person convicted the costs and expenses incurred
            in connection with the repairs or works.

 (3) Before any proceedings are taken under this section, the
Director‑General must give the owner or occupier (as the case may
be) written notice specifying —

       (a) what the Director-General requires to be done or not to be
            done; and

       (b) the time within which the notice is to be complied with.

 (4) If the owner of the premises is, by reason of any contract (not
being a contract made with an intention to evade liability under this
section), prevented from entering the premises to carry out the duties

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      32

and obligations mentioned in subsection (1), the owner shall not be
liable to any of the penalties mentioned in subsection (2) unless it can
be shown that the owner has contributed in any way to the refusal or
failure of the occupier to carry out those duties and obligations.

Penalty for damaging, etc., works

 38.—(1) Any person who, without the consent of the
Director‑General, interferes with, damages, injures, destroys or
renders useless any works executed or any materials or things
placed in, under or upon any premises by or under the order of the
Director‑General, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) The Director‑General may in addition recover from the person
convicted any costs and expenses incurred in connection with the
re‑execution of the works or the replacement of the materials or
things so interfered with, damaged, injured, destroyed or rendered
useless.

Damage to property of Agency to be made good in addition to
penalty

 39.—(1) If through any act, neglect or default on account of which
any person has incurred any penalty under this Act any damage is
caused by that person to property belonging to the Agency, the person
shall be liable to make good the damage as well as to pay the penalty.

 (2) The amount of the damage is, in case of dispute, to be
determined by the court by which the person incurring the penalty
was convicted.

 (3) The amount of the damage may be recovered as if it were a fine
imposed by the court.

Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
determined by court

 40.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, in all cases when
compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses are by this Act
directed to be paid, the amount and (if necessary) the apportionment
of the amount and any question of liability are, in case of dispute or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

33  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

failure to pay, to be summarily ascertained and determined by a
District Court.

 (2) If the amount of compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses
is not paid by the party liable to pay that amount within 14 days after
demand, that amount may be reported to a District Court and
recovered in the same manner as if it were a fine imposed by a District
Court.

 (3) An appeal shall lie to the General Division of the High Court
from any decision of a District Court under this section, and the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 apply, with the
necessary modifications, to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments

 41.—(1) Where the Director-General has incurred costs and
expenses in connection with the execution of any works, which
are, under this Act, payable by or recoverable from the owner or
occupier of any premises, vessel or aircraft (as the case may be), the
Director‑General may obtain an undertaking from the owner or
occupier for the payment of such instalments as will be sufficient to
defray the whole amount of such costs and expenses.

 (2) Upon default in payment of any instalment on the date
appointed for payment of the instalment by the undertaking
mentioned in subsection (1), the whole of the amount outstanding —

       (a) immediately becomes due and payable; and

       (b) despite any change in the ownership or occupation of the
            premises, vessel or aircraft since the date of the
            undertaking, may be recovered by the same means and
            in the like manner as provided in section 40.

Fees, etc., payable to Agency

 42. All fees, charges, composition fines and moneys collected
under this Act must be paid to the Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      34

Liability of transferor of property

 43. Where a person sells or transfers any property in respect of
which costs and expenses have been incurred by the Agency in or
about the execution of any works required to be done under this Act,
and the costs and expenses are recoverable under this Act from the
owner of the property, the person continues to be liable for —

(a) the payment of all the costs and expenses which became
     payable before the transfer; and

(b) the performance of all other obligations imposed by this
     Act upon the owner of the property which were required to
     be performed before the transfer.

Persons unable to pay necessary expenses

 44. If it appears to the Director-General after due enquiry that any
person does not have the means to pay the necessary expenses of
doing anything required to be done by the person under this Act, the
necessary expenses may be paid out of the funds of the Agency.

Obstructing or hindering Director-General, etc., in
performance of duties

 45. Any person who obstructs or hinders the Director‑General or
any police officer or authorised officer, or any other person acting
under the direction of the Director‑General, in the performance or
execution of his or her duty or anything which he or she is authorised,
empowered or required to do under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Notice to attend court

 46.—(1) Where it appears to the Director-General or any police
officer or authorised officer that any person has committed an offence
under this Act, the Director‑General, police officer or authorised
officer may serve on the person a notice in such form as may be
prescribed requiring the person to attend at the court, at the hour and
on the date specified in the notice.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

35  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

 (2) The Director-General, police officer or authorised officer must
prepare a duplicate of the notice mentioned in subsection (1) and, if so
required by a court, produce the duplicate to the court.

 (3) When an accused person appears before a court pursuant to such
a notice, the court is to take cognizance of the offence alleged and is
to proceed as though the accused were brought before the court under
section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (4) If a person who has been served the notice fails to appear before
a court in accordance with the notice, the court is to issue a warrant
for the arrest of that person.

 (5) When a person who is arrested pursuant to a warrant issued
under subsection (4) is brought before a court, the court is to proceed
as though the person were brought under section 153 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Power of arrest

 47.—(1) The Director-General, a police officer or an authorised
officer may arrest without warrant any person committing in his or
her view, or who he or she has reason to believe has committed, any
offence under this Act if —

       (a) he or she does not know the person’s name and address;

       (b) the person omits or refuses to give his or her name and
            address or provide any other proof of identity that may be
            required; or

       (c) he or she has reason to believe that the name, address or
            proof of identity given by the person is false.

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained until his or
her name and address are correctly ascertained.

 (3) A person arrested under this section must not be detained longer
than is necessary for bringing him or her before a court unless the
order of a court for his or her detention is obtained.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      36

Person charged with offence to provide particulars if required

 48.—(1) Any person who is charged by the Director‑General, a
police officer or an authorised officer with any offence under this Act
must give his or her name and address and any other proof of identity
to the Director‑General, police officer or authorised officer, if so
required.

 (2) The occupier of any premises, vessel or aircraft must, if required
by the Director‑General, police officer or authorised officer, give his
or her name and other proof of identity and the name and address of
the owner of the premises, vessel or aircraft, if known.

 (3) Any person who contravenes this section or wilfully misstates
his or her name and address or the name and address of the owner of
any premises, vessel or aircraft shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

Offence by body corporate, etc.

 49. Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a body
corporate, a partnership or an unincorporated association of persons,
any person who, at the time of the commission of the offence, was a
director, manager, partner, secretary or other similar officer thereof,
or was purporting to act in any such capacity shall be guilty of that
offence unless he or she proves that —

       (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) he or she had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

Limitation of liability

 50. Except in any case where, by reason of the act or omission
complained of, any injury or danger to health subsists at the date of
the complaint, no person shall be liable to any fine or penalty under
this Act for any offence under this Act unless the complaint in respect
of the offence is made within 12 months after the date of the
commission of the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Control of Vectors and

37                     Pesticides Act 1998                   2020 Ed.

Jurisdiction of court

 51. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Forfeiture

 52. Where any person is convicted of any offence under this Act,
the court may order that any article seized under this Act be forfeited
to the Agency and may further order that the article be disposed of,
under the direction of the Director‑General, by the person convicted
at the person’s own expense.

Composition of offences

 53.—(1) The Director-General or any officer authorised in writing
in that behalf by the Agency may compound any offence under this
Act which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum of money not exceeding $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Protection from personal liability

 54. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Director‑General, an authorised officer or any other person acting
under the direction of the Director‑General for anything which is in
good faith done in the execution or purported execution of this Act.

Receipts, notices, etc.

 55.—(1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other
documents which the Director‑General is empowered to give by
this Act may be given —

       (a) in such form as the Director-General may determine; and

       (b) by any authorised officer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      38

 (2) Where any such notice, order, receipt, warrant or document
requires authentication, either of the following appended thereto is
sufficient authentication:

(a) the signature of the Director-General or authorised officer;

(b) a facsimile of the signature of the Director‑General or
     authorised officer.

Service of documents, etc.

 56.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person, and any summons issued by a
court against any person in connection with any offence under this
Act, may be served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to an adult member or
            employee of his or her family or household at his or her last
            known place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at his or her usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            his or her usual or last known place of residence or
            business; or

       (d) in the case of an incorporated company, a partnership or a
            body of persons —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
                   officer of the company, partnership or body of
                   persons at its registered office or principal place of
                   business; or

              (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
                   company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons (as the case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

39  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

delivered and in proving service of the notice, order, document or
summons it is sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the
same was properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

 (3) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises, vessel or
aircraft, or any summons issued by a court against any such owner or
occupier in connection with any offence under this Act, may be
served —

    (a) by delivering it or a true copy of it to an adult person on the
         premises, vessel or aircraft; or

    (b) if there is no adult person on the premises, vessel or aircraft
         to whom it can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by
         affixing it to a conspicuous part of the premises, vessel or
         aircraft.

 (4) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises, vessel or
aircraft, or any summons issued by a court against any such owner or
occupier in connection with any offence under this Act, is deemed to
be properly addressed if addressed by the description of the owner or
occupier of the premises, vessel or aircraft without further name or
description.

Inaccuracies in documents, etc.

 57.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, street, place, vessel or aircraft named or described
in any notice, order or document prepared, issued or served under or
for the purposes of this Act affects in any way the operation of this
Act as respects that person, premises, building, street, place, vessel or
aircraft if that person, premises, building, street, place, vessel or
aircraft is so designated in the notice, order or document as to be
identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are invalid
for want of form.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                     Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.             Pesticides Act 1998                           40

Evidence of analyst

 58.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a certificate of an analyst
appointed under section 4(3) (called in this section an analyst’s
certificate) —

(a) stating that the analyst has analysed, tested or examined
     any pesticide, vector repellent or other substance or thing;
     and

(b) stating the result of his or her analysis, test or examination,

is admissible in any proceedings for an offence under this Act as
prima facie evidence of the facts stated in the certificate and of the
correctness of the result of the analysis, test or examination.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), a document purporting to be
an analyst’s certificate, when produced by the prosecution, is, unless
the contrary is proved, deemed to be such a certificate.

 (3) An analyst’s certificate shall not be received in evidence under
subsection (1) unless the person charged has, not less than 10 clear
days before the proceedings commence, been given —

(a) a copy of the certificate; and

(b) notice of the intention of the prosecution to produce the
     certificate as evidence in the proceedings.

 (4) Where an analyst’s certificate is admitted in evidence under
subsection (1), the person charged may require the analyst to be
called as a witness for the prosecution and the analyst may be
cross‑examined as if the analyst had given evidence of the matters
stated in the certificate.

 (5) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served under
or for the purposes of this Act are, until the contrary is proved,
presumed to be correct, and the production of any document or book
purporting to contain any apportionment made under this Act shall,
without any other evidence, be received as prima facie evidence of
the making and validity of the apportionment mentioned therein.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
           Control of Vectors and

41         Pesticides Act 1998                               2020 Ed.

Exemption

 59. The Agency may, subject to the general or special directions of
the Minister, either permanently or for any period that the Agency
thinks fit, exempt any person, premises, vessel or aircraft or any class
of persons, premises, vessel or aircraft from any of the provisions of
this Act.

Regulations

 60.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes of this Act and for any
matter required under this Act to be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations —

       (a) prescribing the particulars, information and documents to
            be provided with any application made under this Act;

       (b) prescribing the form to be used for any purpose under this
            Act;

       (c) prescribing standards for efficacy and safety of pesticides
            and vector repellents;

       (d) prescribing the qualifications and other requirements to be
            met by any person applying to be registered as a vector
            control operator or licensed as a vector control technician
            or certified as a vector control worker (called in this section
            an applicant);

       (e) providing for the examination or testing of an applicant,
            and prescribing the circumstances in which and conditions
            on which an applicant may be exempted from the
            examination or testing;

        (f) prescribing the duties and obligations of registered vector
            control operators, licensed and provisionally licensed
            vector control technicians and certified and provisionally
            certified vector control workers;

       (g) providing for the powers and duties of the
            Director‑General or authorised officers under this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Control of Vectors and

2020 Ed.  Pesticides Act 1998                                      42

(h) prohibiting, controlling or regulating the carrying out of
     any type of vector control work or the use of any type of
     pesticide for the purpose of vector control;

          (i) regulating the storage of pesticides and vector repellents;

          (j) regulating the disposal of the residues or remnants of any
              pesticide used in vector control work;

          (k) imposing temporary restrictions upon the use of any
              premises, vessel or aircraft on which any vector control
              work has been carried out, for the purpose of preventing
              injurious effects which may result from the vector control
              work or the use of any pesticide in connection with the
              work;

          (l) requiring tests to be carried out on any premises, vessel or
              aircraft on which any vector control work has been carried
              out, for the purpose of preventing injurious effects which
              may result from the vector control work or the use of any
              pesticide in connection with the work;

(m) prescribing the manner in which any pesticide or vector
     repellent is to be contained, packaged or labelled before it
     is offered for sale or supply;

(n) prescribing the procedure for the taking and analysis of
     samples under this Act;

(o) prescribing the fees to be charged for the purposes of this
     Act; and

(p) prescribing the offences which may be compounded and
     the method and procedure by which such offences may be
     compounded.

 (3) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, provide that any contravention of, or failure or
neglect to comply with any regulations shall be an offence and may
prescribe the fine with which the offence shall be punishable, except
that no such fine shall exceed for any one offence the sum of $10,000
and, in the case of a continuing offence, the sum of $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Control of Vectors and

43  Pesticides Act 1998                                      2020 Ed.

 (4) All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Transitional provision

 61. Any licence, permit, document, application, approval,
permission, order, direction, ruling or notice issued, made, given or
approved by the Commissioner of Public Health under any provision
of this Act immediately before 1 July 2002 is deemed to have been
issued, made, given or approved under the same provision by the
Director‑General.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                    CONTROL OF VECTORS AND

                          PESTICIDES ACT 1998

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                 PART 1
      DESTRUCTION OF MOSQUITOES ORDINANCE

          (CHAPTER 139, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 38 of 1919 — Destruction of Mosquitos Ordinance, 1919

Bill                  : G.N. No. 653/1919

First Reading         : 16 June 1919

Second Reading        : 6 October 1919

Notice of Amendments  : 6 October 1919

Third Reading         : 27 October 1919

Commencement          : 8 May 1920

2. Ordinance 15 of 1920 — Destruction of Mosquitos (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1920

Bill                  : G.N. No. 651/1920

First Reading         : 12 April 1920

Second Reading        : 3 May 1920

Notice of Amendments  : 3 May 1920

Third Reading         : 31 May 1920

Commencement          : 11 June 1920

3. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 174 (Destruction of Mosquitos)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      ii

4. Ordinance 26 of 1921 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Operation
                                    Ordinance, 1921

   (Amendments made by section 3(a) read with Schedule B to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1854/1921

First and Second Readings : 22 November 1921

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 1921

Third Reading         : 22 November 1921

Commencement          : 28 November 1921
                            (section 3(a) read with Schedule B)

5. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 174 (Destruction of Mosquitos)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

6. Ordinance 30 of 1934 — The Destruction of Mosquitos (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1934

Bill                  : G.N. No. 742/1934

First Reading         : 16 April 1934

Second Reading        : 28 May 1934

Notice of Amendments  : 28 May 1934

Third Reading         : 28 May 1934

Commencement          : 29 June 1934

7. Ordinance 63 of 1935 — Statute Law Revision Ordinance, 1935
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (z) of the First Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3043/1935

First Reading         : 20 November 1935

Second Reading        : 9 December 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1935

Third Reading         : 9 December 1935

Commencement          : 31 December 1935 (section 2 read
                            with item (z) of the First Schedule)

8. 1936 Revised Edition — Destruction of Mosquitoes Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 189)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      iii

9. Ordinance 45 of 1940 — Destruction of Mosquitoes (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1940

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2440/1940

First Reading         : 26 August 1940

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1940

Commencement          : 28 October 1940

10. Ordinance 65 of 1941 — Destruction of Mosquitoes (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1941

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2543/1941

First Reading         : 5 November 1941

Second and Third Readings : 8 December 1941

Commencement          : 13 December 1941

11. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 58 of the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 58 of the Schedule)

12. 1955 Revised Edition — Destruction of Mosquitoes Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 139)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

13. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                      Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
Commencement    iv

               : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                     with the Schedule)

                                      PART 2
      DESTRUCTION OF DISEASE-BEARING INSECTS ACT

               (CHAPTER 79, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

14. Act 26 of 1968 — Destruction of Disease-Bearing Insects Act, 1968

Bill           : 29/1968

First Reading  : 10 July 1968

Second and Third Readings : 1 August 1968

Commencement   : 1 September 1968

15. 1970 Revised Edition — Destruction of Disease-Bearing Insects Act
                                     (Chapter 152)

Operation      : 31 May 1971

16. G.N. No. S 221/1972 — Metrication (Destruction of Disease-Bearing
                                    Insects Act) Order, 1972

Commencement   : 1 September 1972

17. Act 28 of 1973 — Destruction of Disease-Bearing Insects (Amendment)
                             Act, 1973

Bill           : 25/1973

First Reading  : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 1973

Commencement   : 1 September 1973

18. 1985 Revised Edition — Destruction of Disease-Bearing Insects Act
                                     (Chapter 79)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                     PART 3
      CONTROL OF VECTORS AND PESTICIDES ACT 1998

                        (2020 REVISED EDITION)

19. Act 24 of 1998 — Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act 1998

Bill           : 25/1998

First Reading  : 1 June 1998

Second and Third Readings : 30 June 1998

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         v

Commencement             : 1 September 1998

20. 1999 Revised Edition — Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act
                                     (Chapter 59)

Operation                : 30 December 1999

21. Act 4 of 2002 — National Environment Agency Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 50 read with item (2) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                     : 13/2002

First Reading            : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement             : 1 July 2002 (section 50 read with
                               item (2) of the Second Schedule)

22. 2002 Revised Edition — Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act
                                     (Chapter 59)

Operation                : 31 December 2002

23. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
                             2004

     (Amendments made by section 140 read with item (3) of the Fifth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 6/2004

First Reading            : 6 February 2004

Second Reading           : 19 April 2004

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 2004

Third Reading            : 19 October 2004

Commencement             : 1 April 2005 (section 140 read with
                               item (3) of the Fifth Schedule)

24. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 27 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2010

First Reading            : 26 April 2010

Second Reading           : 18 May 2010

Third Reading            : 19 May 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      vi

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 27 of the Sixth Schedule)

25. Act 4 of 2016 — National Environment Agency (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act 2016

     (Amendments made by section 2 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 7/2016

First Reading         : 28 January 2016

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 2016

Commencement          : 1 May 2016 (section 2)

26. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 30 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 30 of the Schedule)

27. 2020 Revised Edition — Control of Vectors and
                                     Pesticides Act 1998

Operation             : 31 December 2021

28. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022

29. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill                  : 10/2020

First Reading         : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement          : 1 October 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               vii

30. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill           : 12/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement   : 1 July 2026

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
