THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                      CHARITIES ACT 1994

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                                                                2020 Ed.

Charities Act 1994

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
                     COMMISSIONER OF CHARITIES

3. Appointment of Commissioner of Charities and other officers
4. Objectives and general functions of Commissioner

                                       PART 3
                              CHARITY COUNCIL

5. Charity Council
6. Functions of Council

                                         PART 4

REGISTRATION OF CHARITIES AND PROVISIONS FOR INQUIRING
                                  INTO CHARITIES

  7. Registration of charities
  8. Effect of, and claims and objections to, registration
  9. Power of Commissioner to require change of charity’s name
10. General power of Commissioner to institute inquiries

                                        PART 5
           CHARITY ACCOUNTS, REPORTS AND RETURNS

11. Duty to keep accounting records
12. Financial statements
13. Annual audit or examination of charity accounts
14. Annual reports

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                          2

Section
   15. Public inspection of annual reports, etc.
   16. Offences

                                        PART 6
                                SMALL CHARITIES

17. Power to transfer all property, modify objects, etc.
18. Power to spend capital

                                        PART 7

                  APPLICATION OF PROPERTY CY-PRÈS
                AND ASSISTANCE AND SUPERVISION OF
             CHARITIES BY COURT AND COMMISSIONER

19. Occasions for applying property cy-près
20. Application cy-près of gifts of donors unknown or disclaiming
21. Entrusting charity property to Public Trustee and termination of

         trust
22. Concurrent jurisdiction with General Division of High Court for

         certain purposes
23. Power to act for protection of charities
24. Power to suspend or remove trustees, etc., from membership of

         charity
25. Supplementary provisions relating to receiver and manager

         appointed for charity
26. Power to direct application of charity property
27. Power to direct application of charity property after charity

         ceases to exist
28. Disqualifications and effects of removal
29. Persons acting in capacity from which disqualified
30. Publicity for proceedings under this Part
31. Power to authorise dealings with charity property, etc.
32. Taking of legal proceedings
33. Charitable companies
34. Power to relieve governing board members, etc., from personal

         liability

                                        PART 8
                           FUND-RAISING APPEALS
35. Interpretation of this Part

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
3        Charities Act 1994                                            2020 Ed.

Section  Prohibition on conducting fund-raising appeal without permit
   36.   Power of Commissioner to prohibit or restrict, or suspend,
   37.   fund-raising appeal
         Regulations relating to fund-raising appeals
   38.   Exclusion of judicial review
   39.

                                           PART 9

               INSTITUTIONS OF A PUBLIC CHARACTER AND
                             SECTOR ADMINISTRATORS

   40. Interpretation of this Part
   41. Appointment of Sector Administrators
   42. Regulations relating to institutions of a public character and

            Sector Administrators

                                          PART 10

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   43. Manner of giving notice of charity meetings, etc.
   44. Power of Commissioner to call for documents and search

            records
   45. Supply of false or misleading information to Commissioner, etc.
   46. Disclosure of information to and by Commissioner
   47. Miscellaneous provisions as to orders of Commissioner
   48. Service of documents
   49. Holding out as registered charity or institution of a public

            character
   50. Offences by corporations
   51. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   52. Enforcement of orders of Commissioner
   53. Appeals from Commissioner
   54. Protection from liability
   55. Power to compound
   56. Prosecution of offences
   57. Regulations
   58. Transitional provisions

            The Schedule — Exempt Charities

An Act to make provision for the registration of charities, the
  administration of charities and their affairs, the regulation of

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       4

charities and institutions of a public character, the regulation of
fund-raising activities carried on in connection with charities and
other institutions and the conduct of fund-raising appeals, and for
purposes connected therewith.

          [1 January 1995: Except Part VII ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Charities Act 1994.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “charitable company” means a charity which is a company or
         other body corporate;

      “charitable purposes” means purposes which are exclusively
         charitable according to the law of Singapore;

      “charity” means any institution, corporate or not, which is
         established for charitable purposes and is subject to the
         control of the General Division of the High Court in exercise
         of the jurisdiction of the General Division of the High Court
         with respect to charities;

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Charities
         appointed under section 3;

      “company” means a company incorporated or registered under
         any law in force in Singapore or elsewhere;

      “Council” means the Charity Council established under
         section 5;

      “document” includes information recorded in any form, and, in
         relation to information recorded otherwise than in legible
         form —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
5                      Charities Act 1994                   2020 Ed.

   (a) any reference to its production is to be construed as a
        reference to the furnishing of a copy of it in legible
        form; and

   (b) any reference to the furnishing of a copy of, or extract
        from, it is to be accordingly construed as a reference
        to the furnishing of a copy of, or extract from, it in
        legible form;

   “electronic record” has the meaning given by the Electronic
      Transactions Act 2010;

   “exempt charity” means a charity specified in the Schedule;

   “financial year” —

   (a) in relation to a charity which is a company, is to be
        construed in accordance with the Companies
        Act 1967; and

   (b) in relation to any other charity, is to be construed in
        accordance with regulations made under
        section 12(1);

   “governing board members” means members of the governing
      body of a charity or trustees for a charity having the general
      control and management of the administration of the charity;

   “governing instruments”, in relation to a charity, means the
      provisions establishing it as a charity and regulating its
      purposes and administration, whether or not those provisions
      take effect by way of trust or are set out in any document, and
      in relation to other institutions has a corresponding meaning;

   “gross income”, in relation to a charity, means its gross recorded
      receipts from all sources;

   “institution” includes any trust or undertaking;

   “key officer”, in relation to —

   (a) a charity;

   (b) a person that is a governing board member of a
        charity; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       6

          (c) a person that is a member of a charity,

          means an individual who, whether or not an employee of the
          charity or person (as the case may be) and by whatever name
          called, and whether acting alone or together with any other
          person —

          (d) has general control and management of all or any
               aspect (including the financial aspect) of the
               administration of the charity or person; or

          (e) provides advice to the charity or person on the control
              and management mentioned in paragraph (d), other
              than as a professional engaged or retained pursuant to
              a contract for service to provide such advice in that
              professional capacity;

“public accountant” means a person who is registered or deemed
   to be registered under the Accountants Act 2004 as a public
   accountant;

“public authority” means —

          (a) an Organ of State or a public officer of the Organ of
               State;

          (b) a ministry or department of the Government or a
               public officer of the ministry or department; or

          (c) a public authority established by or under any public
              Act for a public purpose or an officer or an employee
              of the public authority;

“trustee” has the meaning given by the Trustees Act 1967.

                              [34/2010; 2/2018; 40/2019]

 (2) References in this Act to a charity whose income from all
sources does not in aggregate amount to more than a specified amount
are to be construed —

(a) by reference to the gross receipts of the charity; or

(b) if the Commissioner so determines, by reference to the
     amount which he or she estimates to be the likely amount
     of those receipts,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
7  Charities Act 1994                                            2020 Ed.

but without (in either case) bringing into account anything for the
annual value of land occupied by the charity apart from the pecuniary
income (if any) received from that land; and any question as to the
application of any such reference to a charity is to be determined by
the Commissioner, whose decision is final.

 (3) The Commissioner may direct that, for all or any of the purposes
of this Act, an institution established for any special purposes of or in
connection with a charity (being charitable purposes) is to be treated
as forming part of that charity or as forming a distinct charity.

   (4) In this Act, a person’s conviction is treated as spent —

   (a) if the criminal record under the Registration of Criminals
        Act 1949 of the person’s conviction becomes spent under
        Part 2A of that Act;

   (b) if the person has received a free pardon for the offence; or

   (c) in the case of a conviction by a court of a country or
       territory outside Singapore, if circumstances in that
       country or territory similar to paragraph (a) or (b) occur.

                                                                                                     [2/2018]

                                    PART 2

                   COMMISSIONER OF CHARITIES

Appointment of Commissioner of Charities and other officers

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint —

       (a) an officer called the Commissioner of Charities who has
            the functions conferred on him or her by this Act; and

       (b) a Deputy Commissioner and such Assistant
            Commissioners of Charities or such other officers as the
            Minister may think necessary to assist the Commissioner
            in the proper discharge of the Commissioner’s functions.

 (2) The Deputy Commissioner of Charities has and may exercise all
the powers, duties and functions of the Commissioner except those
which are exercisable under sections 22, 23, 24, 26, 27 and 31.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       8

 (3) An Assistant Commissioner of Charities has and may exercise
all the powers, duties and functions of the Commissioner as may be
delegated to him or her by the Commissioner in writing, except those
which are exercisable under sections 22, 23, 24, 26, 27 and 31.

Objectives and general functions of Commissioner

 4.—(1) The objectives of the Commissioner are —

       (a) to maintain public trust and confidence in charities;

       (b) to promote compliance by governing board members and
            key officers with their legal obligations in exercising
            control and management of the administration of their
            charities;

       (c) to promote the effective use of charitable resources; and

       (d) to enhance the accountability of charities to donors,
            beneficiaries and the general public.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) The general functions of the Commissioner are —

       (a) to determine whether institutions are or are not charities;

       (b) to encourage and facilitate the better administration of
            charities;

       (c) to identify and investigate apparent misconduct or
            mismanagement in the administration of charities;

       (d) to take remedial or protective action in connection with
            misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of
            charities;

       (e) to obtain, evaluate and disseminate information in
            connection with the performance of any of the
            Commissioner’s functions or meeting any of the
            Commissioner’s objectives;

        (f) to give information or advice, or make proposals, to the
            Minister on matters relating to any of the Commissioner’s
            functions or meeting any of the Commissioner’s
            objectives; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
9  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

   (g) to perform any other functions that the Minister may
        determine.

 (3) The Commissioner must, as soon as possible after the end of
every year, submit to the Minister a report on the Commissioner's
operations during that year, and the Minister must present a copy of
the report to Parliament.

                                    PART 3

                           CHARITY COUNCIL

Charity Council

 5.—(1) There is established a Charity Council consisting of a
Chairperson and such other members as the Minister may appoint.

 (2) The Chairperson and other members of the Council are
appointed for the duration and on the terms and conditions that the
Minister may determine.

                                                                              [4A

Functions of Council

 6.—(1) The functions of the Council are —

       (a) to advise the Commissioner on any question which he or
            she may refer to it in connection with the administration of
            this Act, and the objectives and functions of the
            Commissioner under this Act;

       (b) to make any recommendations to the Commissioner as it
            thinks fit in relation to the regulation of charities; and

       (c) to promote self-regulation and good governance standards
            in the charity sector.

 (2) The Council may perform any other functions that the Minister
may determine.

 (3) The Council may regulate its own procedure.
                                                                              [4B

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       10

          PART 4

REGISTRATION OF CHARITIES AND PROVISIONS FOR
                 INQUIRING INTO CHARITIES

Registration of charities

 7.—(1) The Commissioner must continue to keep a register of
charities in which must be entered the particulars that he or she may
determine of any charity registered therein.

 (2) There must be entered in the register every charity not excepted
by subsection (6); and a charity so excepted —

(a) may be entered in the register at the request of the charity;
     but

(b) whether or not it was excepted at the time of registration,
     may at any time, and must at the request of the charity, be
     removed from the register.

 (3) Any institution which no longer appears to the Commissioner to
be a charity must be removed from the register with effect, where the
removal is due to any change in its purposes or governing
instruments, from the date of that change; and there must also be
removed from the register any charity which ceases to exist or does
not operate.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) The Commissioner must refuse to register an institution as a
charity —

(a) if it appears to the Commissioner that the registration of the
     institution will be contrary to the public interest; or

(b) on any other ground that the Minister may prescribe.

 (5) The Commissioner must remove an institution from the register
of charities —

(a) if it appears to the Commissioner that the continued
     registration of the institution as a charity is contrary to the
     public interest; or

(b) on any other ground that the Minister may prescribe.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
11  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

(6) The following charities are not required to be registered:

    (a) any charity specified in the Schedule; and

    (b) any charity which is excepted by regulations made under
         this Act.

 (7) Any application to the Commissioner for a charity to be
registered must be accompanied with copies of its governing
instruments (or, if any provisions of the governing instruments are
not set out in any document, particulars of them) and any other
documents or information that the Commissioner may require for the
purpose of the application.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (8) It is the duty of —

    (a) the governing board members of any charity which is not
         registered nor excepted from registration to apply for it to
         be registered, and to supply the documents and information
         required by subsection (7), within 3 months after its
         establishment or such longer period as the Commissioner
         may allow; and

    (b) the governing board members (or last governing board
         members) of any institution which is for the time being
         registered to notify the Commissioner if it ceases to exist,
         or if there is any change in its governing instruments, or in
         its particulars entered in the register, and to furnish the
         Commissioner with particulars of any such change and
         copies of any new governing instruments or alterations of
         the governing instruments, within 7 days after such
         cessation or change or such longer period as the
         Commissioner may allow,

and any person who makes default in carrying out any of the duties
imposed by this subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       12

conviction, and the Commissioner may by order require that person
to make good that default.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (9) Where the governing instrument of a registered charity requires
the prior approval of the Commissioner for any amendment to the
governing instrument and the Commissioner has delegated his or her
power to grant such approval to a Sector Administrator under
section 42(1)(e), that requirement is deemed to apply as if it required
the prior approval of the Sector Administrator (instead of the
Commissioner) for the amendment of the governing instrument.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (10) The register (including entries cancelled when institutions are
removed from the register) must be open to public inspection at all
reasonable times, except insofar as regulations otherwise provide.

 (11) The register of charities may be prepared and kept in such
manner as the Commissioner thinks fit, including in electronic form
in a computer.

 (12) Where any information contained in the register is not in
documentary form, subsection (10) is to be construed as requiring the
information to be available for public inspection in legible form at all
reasonable times.

                                                                                [5

Effect of, and claims and objections to, registration

 8.—(1) An institution is, for all purposes other than rectification of
the register, conclusively presumed to be or have been a charity at any
time when it is or was on the register of charities.

 (2) Any person who is or may be affected by the registration of an
institution as a charity may, on the ground that it is not a charity,
object to its being entered by the Commissioner in the register, or
apply to the Commissioner for it to be removed from the register; and
the objection or application must be made or dealt with in the manner
prescribed by regulations made under this Act.

 (3) An appeal against any decision of the Commissioner to enter or
not to enter an institution in the register of charities, or to remove or
not to remove an institution from the register, may be brought in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
13  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

General Division of the High Court by the persons who are or claim to
be the governing board members of the institution, or by any person
whose objection or application under subsection (2) has been
disallowed by the Commissioner; and a copy of every notice of
such appeal must be transmitted to the Attorney-General.

                                                                                                [34/2010; 40/2019]

 (4) If there is an appeal to the General Division of the High Court
against any decision of the Commissioner to enter an institution in the
register, or not to remove an institution from the register, then until
the Commissioner is satisfied whether his or her decision is or is not
to stand, the entry in the register is to be maintained, but is in suspense
and marked to indicate that it is in suspense; and for the purposes of
subsection (1) an institution is deemed not to be on the register during
any period when the entry relating to it is in suspense under this
subsection.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) Any question affecting the registration or removal from the
register of an institution may, even though it has been determined by a
decision on appeal under subsection (3), be considered afresh by the
Commissioner and is not to be concluded by that decision, if it
appears to the Commissioner that there has been a change of
circumstances or that the decision is inconsistent with a later judicial
decision, whether given on such an appeal or not.

                                                                                [6

Power of Commissioner to require change of charity’s name

 9.—(1) The Commissioner may, with respect to a charity to which
this subsection applies, give a direction requiring the name of the
charity to be changed, within the period specified in the direction, to
any other name that the governing board members may determine
with the Commissioner’s approval.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to a charity if —

       (a) it is a registered charity and its name (called in this Act the
            registered name) is the same as, or is in the
            Commissioner’s opinion too like, the name, at the time
            when the registered name was entered in the register in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       14

     respect of the charity, of any other charity (whether
     registered or not);

(b) the name of the charity is in the Commissioner’s opinion
     likely to mislead the public as to the true nature of —

          (i) the purposes of the charity as set out in its governing
              instruments; or

          (ii) the activities which the charity carries on under its
               governing instruments in pursuit of those purposes;

          (c) the name of the charity includes any word or expression
              which in the Commissioner’s opinion is likely to mislead
              the public in any respect as to the status of the charity;

(d) the name of the charity is in the Commissioner’s opinion
     likely to give the impression that the charity is connected in
     some way with the Government or any public authority, or
     with any other body of persons or any individual, when it is
     not so connected; or

(e) the name of the charity is in the Commissioner’s opinion
     offensive,

and any reference in this subsection to the name of a charity is, in
relation to a registered charity, a reference to the name by which it is
registered.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) Any direction given by virtue of subsection (2)(a) must be given
within 12 months of the time when the registered name was entered in
the register in respect of the charity.

 (4) Any direction given under this section with respect to a charity
must be given to the governing board members; and on receiving any
such direction the governing board members must give effect to it
despite anything in the governing instruments of the charity.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) Where the name of any charity is changed under this section, it
is the duty of the governing board members to notify the
Commissioner, within 7 days after the change or such longer

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
15  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

period as the Commissioner may allow, of the new name of the
charity and of the date on which the change occurred.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (6) A change of name by a charity under this section does not affect
any rights or obligations of the charity; and any legal proceedings that
might have been continued or commenced by or against it in its
former name may be continued or commenced by or against it in its
new name.

 (7) Any reference in this section to the governing board members of
a charity is, in relation to a charity which is a company, to be read as a
reference to the directors of the company.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (8) Where any direction is given under this section with respect to a
charity which is a company, the direction is taken to require the
directors of the company to take the necessary steps to effect the
change of the name of the company, including applying to the
Registrar of Companies for the reservation and approval of the new
name under section 27 or 378 of the Companies Act 1967, as the case
may be.

(9) Nothing in this section applies to an exempt charity.
                                                                               [7

General power of Commissioner to institute inquiries

 10.—(1) The Commissioner may from time to time institute
inquiries with regard to charities or a particular charity or class of
charities, either generally or for particular purposes.

 (2) The Commissioner may either conduct such an inquiry
personally or appoint a person to conduct it and make a report to
the Commissioner.

 (3) For the purposes of any such inquiry, the Commissioner or a
person appointed by the Commissioner to conduct the inquiry may by
order require any person —

       (a) to furnish accounts and statements in writing with respect
            to any matter in question at the inquiry, being a matter on
            which that person has or can reasonably obtain
            information, or to return answers in writing to any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       16

          questions or inquiries addressed to the person on any such
          matter, and to verify any such accounts, statements or
          answers by statutory declaration;

(b) to furnish copies of documents in the person’s custody or
     under the person’s control which relate to any matter in
     question at the inquiry, and to verify any such copies by
     statutory declaration; and

          (c) to attend at a specified time and place and give evidence or
              produce any such documents,

and any person who fails to comply with any requirement specified in
the order shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
to a further fine not exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) For the purposes of any such inquiry, evidence may be taken on
oath, and the person conducting the inquiry may for that purpose
administer oaths, or may instead of administering an oath require the
person examined to make and subscribe a declaration of the truth of
the matters about which the person is examined.

 (5) Where the Commissioner proposes to take any action in
consequence of an inquiry under this section, the Commissioner
may publish the report of the person conducting the inquiry, or any
other statement of the results of the inquiry as the Commissioner
thinks fit, in any manner calculated in the Commissioner’s opinion to
bring it to the attention of persons who may wish to make
representations to the Commissioner about the action to be taken.

 (6) A copy of the report of the person conducting an inquiry under
this section is, if certified by the Commissioner to be a true copy,
admissible as evidence of any fact stated in the report, and as
evidence of the opinion of that person as to any matter referred to in
the report, in any legal proceedings instituted by the Commissioner
under section 23 and in any legal proceedings instituted by the
Attorney-General in respect of a charity.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
17  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (7) A document purporting to be a certificate issued for the
purposes of subsection (6) is to be received in evidence and deemed
to be such a certificate unless the contrary is proved.

 (8) If any person wilfully alters, suppresses, conceals or destroys
any document which the person may be required to produce under
this section, the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                [8

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

                                    PART 5

       CHARITY ACCOUNTS, REPORTS AND RETURNS

Duty to keep accounting records

 11.—(1) Unless otherwise excepted by regulations made under this
Act, the governing board members of a charity must ensure that
accounting records are kept in respect of the charity which are
sufficient to show and explain all the charity’s transactions, and
which —

       (a) disclose at any time, with reasonable accuracy, the
            financial position of the charity at that time; and

       (b) enable the governing board members to ensure that, where
            any financial statements are prepared by them under
            regulations made under section 12, those financial
            statements comply with the requirements of those
            regulations.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (2) The accounting records must, in particular, contain —

       (a) entries showing from day to day all sums of money
            received and expended by the charity, and the matters in
            respect of which the receipt and expenditure takes place;
            and

       (b) a record of the assets and liabilities of the charity.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       18

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the governing board members of a
charity must preserve any accounting records made for the purposes
of this section in respect of the charity for at least 5 years after the end
of the financial year of the charity in which they are made.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (4) Where a charity ceases to exist before the end of the minimum
period in subsection (3) for preserving of accounting records in
respect of the charity —

(a) the last governing board members of the charity; or

(b) any one or more of the last governing board members of
     the charity, as may be agreed by the last governing board
     members,

must preserve the accounting records to the end of that period, unless
the Commissioner allows the accounting records to be earlier
destroyed or otherwise disposed of.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) Subsection (4) also applies to a charity that ceases to exist
before 1 April 2018, if the minimum period in subsection (3) as it
applies to any accounting record of the charity has not ended on that
date.

                                                                               [12

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

Financial statements

 12.—(1) The Minister may make regulations relating to the
financial reporting requirements for charities, including provisions —

       (a) allowing the governing board members of specified classes
            of charities to prepare a receipts and payments account and
            a statement of assets and liabilities instead of financial
            statements in respect of any financial year of the charity;

       (b) prescribing requirements as to the form and contents of
            accounts and statements of charities;

       (c) requiring the accounts and statements of specified classes
            of charities to be in compliance with all or any of the
            following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
19  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (i) specified accounting standards that are made or
         formulated by the Accounting Standards Committee
         under Part 3 of the Accounting Standards Act 2007;

                                                              [Act 36 of 2022 wef 01/04/2023]

    (ii) other accounting standards or requirements specified
         in the regulations;

    (d) providing for relief from the requirements of such
         accounting standards applicable to charities;

    (e) determining the financial years of a charity for the
        purposes of this Act;

    (f) modifying the application of any provisions in the
        Companies Act 1967 as to the form and content of a
        company’s accounts or consolidated accounts being in
        compliance with the Accounting Standards (as defined in
        the Companies Act 1967) in respect of a company that is
        registered as a charity or approved as an institution of a
        public character under this Act; or

       (g) providing that any person who is guilty of an offence under
            any regulations made under paragraph (c) in respect of a
            charity which is registered as a company under the
            Companies Act 1967 shall be liable on conviction to the
            same penalty as that provided under section 204(1) or
            (3)(a) (as the case may be) of that Act.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the governing board members of a
charity must preserve any financial statement or other accounts and
statements prepared by them for the purposes of regulations made
under this section, for at least 5 years after the end of the financial
year to which the financial statement or accounts and statements (as
the case may be) relate.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) Where a charity ceases to exist before the end of the minimum
period in subsection (2) for preserving financial statements or other
accounts and statements in respect of the charity —

    (a) the last governing board members of the charity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       20

(b) any one or more of the last governing board members of
     the charity, as may be agreed by the last governing board
     members,

must preserve the financial statements or other accounts and
statements to the end of that period, unless the Commissioner
allows the financial statements or other accounts and statements (as
the case may be) to be earlier destroyed or otherwise disposed of.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) Subsection (3) also applies to a charity that ceases to exist
before 1 April 2018, if the minimum period in subsection (2) as it
applies to any financial statement or other accounts and statements of
the charity has not ended on that date.

                                                                               [13

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

Annual audit or examination of charity accounts

 13.—(1) The Minister may by regulations make provision —

       (a) requiring the accounts of charities to be audited or
            examined and specify the circumstances in which such
            audits or examinations must be carried out by a public
            accountant, an independent qualified accountant or an
            independent person;

       (b) with respect to the duties of an auditor or independent
            examiner carrying out an audit or examination for the
            purposes of this section;

       (c) conferring on the auditor or independent examiner a right
            of access with respect to books, documents and other
            records (however kept) which relate to the charity
            concerned;

       (d) entitling the auditor or independent examiner to require, in
            the case of a charity, information and explanations from
            past or present governing board members or trustees for the
            charity, or from past or present officers, employees or
            auditors of the charity; and

       (e) enabling the Commissioner, in prescribed circumstances,
            to dispense with any of the requirements prescribed under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
21  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

           paragraph (a) in the case of a particular charity or in the
           case of any particular financial year of a charity.

                                                                                                         [34/2010]

(2) Where it appears to the Commissioner —

    (a) that any requirement under this section for the accounts of
         a charity to be audited or examined has not been complied
         with in relation to a financial year of a charity within
         10 months from the end of that year; or

    (b) that it would be desirable for the accounts of a particular
         charity for any year to be audited by a public accountant
         although the regulations made under this Act do not so
         require,

the Commissioner may by order require the accounts of the charity
for that year to be audited by a person appointed by the
Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) The expenses of any audit carried out by a person appointed by
the Commissioner under subsection (2), including the person’s
remuneration, must be paid —

    (a) by the governing board members of the charity concerned
         who shall be personally liable, jointly and severally, for
         those expenses; or

    (b) to the extent that it appears to the Commissioner not to be
         practical to pay those expenses in accordance with
         paragraph (a), from the funds of the charity.

                                                                                                     [34/2010]

 (4) The Commissioner may give any directions that he or she may
think appropriate with respect to the carrying out of an examination
required by regulations made under this Act, and any such directions
may either be of general application or apply to a particular charity
only.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) If any person fails to provide an auditor or independent
examiner any facility to which the auditor or independent auditor
is entitled by virtue of regulations made under subsection (1)(c) or
(d), without affecting any regulations made under section 57(4) for

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       22

such failure, the Commissioner may by order give to that person or to
the governing board members for the time being of the charity
concerned, such directions as the Commissioner thinks appropriate
for securing that the default is made good.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (6) Section 391 of the Companies Act 1967 has effect in relation to
an auditor or independent examiner appointed by a charity pursuant
to this section as it has effect in relation to a person employed as
auditor by a company within the meaning of that Act.

                                                                               [14

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Annual reports

 14.—(1) Unless otherwise excepted by regulations made under this
Act, the governing board members of a charity must prepare in
respect of each financial year of the charity an annual report
containing —

       (a) a prescribed report by the governing board members on the
            activities of the charity during that year; and

       (b) any other information relating to the charity or to its
            governing board members or officers that may be
            prescribed by regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) The annual report required to be prepared under this section in
respect of any financial year of a charity that is a registered charity or
an exempt charity, must be transmitted to the Commissioner by the
governing board members —

       (a) within 6 months from the end of that year; or

       (b) within such longer period as the Commissioner may for
            any special reason allow in the case of that report.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), every annual report of a registered
charity or an exempt charity must have attached to it the financial
statements or account and statement prepared for the financial year in
question pursuant to section 12(1), together with —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
23  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (a) where the accounts of the charity for that year have been
         audited under section 13, a copy of the report made by the
         auditor on the financial statements or account and
         statement, as the case may be; or

    (b) where the accounts of the charity for that year have been
         examined under section 13, a copy of the report made by
         the independent examiner in respect of the examination
         carried out by the independent examiner under that section.

                                                                                          [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to a charity which is a company,

and any annual report transmitted by the governing board members of

such a charity under subsection (2) must have attached to it a copy of
the charity’s annual accounts prepared for the financial year in
question under Part 6 of the Companies Act 1967, together with a
copy of the auditor’s report on those accounts.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) Any annual report transmitted to the Commissioner under
subsection (2), together with the documents attached to it, must be
kept by the Commissioner for such period as he or she may think fit.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), the governing board members of a
charity must preserve every annual report prepared under this section
for a financial year that ends on or after 1 April 2018 in respect of the
charity, for at least 5 years after the end of the financial year of the
charity to which the report relates.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (7) Where a charity ceases to exist before the end of the minimum
period in subsection (6) for preserving annual reports in respect of the
charity —

    (a) the last governing board members of the charity; or

    (b) any one or more of the last governing board members of
         the charity, as may be agreed by the last governing board
         members,

must preserve the annual reports to the end of that period, unless the
Commissioner allows the annual reports to be earlier destroyed or
otherwise disposed of.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       24

 (8) Subsection (7) also applies to a charity that ceases to exist
before 1 April 2018, if the minimum period in subsection (6) as it
applies to any annual report of the charity has not ended on that date.

                                                                               [16

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

Public inspection of annual reports, etc.

 15.—(1) Any annual report or other document kept by the
Commissioner pursuant to section 14(5) must be open to public
inspection at all reasonable times —

       (a) during the period for which it is so kept; or

       (b) if the Commissioner so determines, during a shorter period
            that he or she may specify.

 (2) Where any interested person —

       (a) requests the governing board members of a charity in
            writing to provide the interested person with a copy of the
            charity’s most recent accounts; and

       (b) pays the governing board members such reasonable fee (if
            any) as they may require in respect of the costs of
            complying with the request,

those governing board members must comply with the request within
the period of 2 months beginning with the date on which the request is
made.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) In subsection (2), the reference to a charity’s most recent
accounts is —

       (a) a reference to the financial statements or account and
            statement prepared pursuant to section 12(1) in respect of
            the last financial year of the charity the accounts for which
            have been audited or examined under section 13; and

       (b) in the case of a charity which is a company, a reference to
            the annual accounts of the company most recently audited
            under Part 6 of the Companies Act 1967.
                                                                               [17

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
25        Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

Offences

 16. Any person who, without reasonable excuse, is in default in
relation to any requirement imposed by section 11(3) or (4), 12(2) or
(3), 14(2), (6) or (7) or 15(2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                               [18

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

                                    PART 6

                            SMALL CHARITIES

Power to transfer all property, modify objects, etc.

 17.—(1) This section applies to a charity if —

       (a) its gross income in its last financial year did not exceed
            $20,000; and

       (b) it does not hold any land on trusts which stipulate that the
            land is to be used for the purpose, or any particular
            purpose, of the charity,

and it is neither an exempt charity nor a charitable company.

 (2) Subject to the following provisions of this section, the
governing board members of a charity to which this section applies
may resolve for the purposes of this section —

       (a) that all the property of the charity should be transferred to
            such other charity as is specified in the resolution, being
            either a registered charity or a charity which is not required
            to be registered;

       (b) that all the property of the charity should be divided, in
            such manner as is specified in the resolution, between such
            2 or more other charities as are so specified, being in each
            case either a registered charity or a charity which is not
            required to be registered;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       26

          (c) that the governing instruments of the charity should be
              modified by replacing all or any of the purposes of the
              charity with such other purposes, being in law charitable,
              as are specified in the resolution; or

(d) that any provision of the governing instruments of the
     charity —

          (i) relating to any of the powers exercisable by the
              governing board members in the administration of
              the charity; or

          (ii) regulating the procedure to be followed in any
               respect in connection with its administration,

          should be modified in such manner as is specified in the
          resolution.

                                                                                                   [34/2010]

 (3) Any resolution passed under subsection (2) must be passed by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the governing board members
present and voting on the resolution.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) The governing board members of a charity to which this section
applies (called in this Act the transferor charity) do not have power to
pass a resolution under subsection (2)(a) or (b) unless they are
satisfied —

(a) that the existing purposes of the transferor charity have
     ceased to be conducive to a suitable and effective
     application of the charity’s resources; and

(b) that the purposes of the charity or charities specified in the
     resolution are as similar in character to the purposes of the
     transferor charity as is reasonably practicable,

and before passing the resolution they must have received from the
governing board members of the charity, or (as the case may be) of
each of the charities, specified in the resolution written confirmation
that those governing board members are willing to accept a transfer of
property under this section.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
27  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) The governing board members of any such charity do not have
power to pass a resolution under subsection (2)(c) unless they are
satisfied —

    (a) that the existing purposes of the charity (or, as the case may
         be, such of them as it is proposed to replace) have ceased to
         be conducive to a suitable and effective application of the
         charity’s resources; and

       (b) that the purposes specified in the resolution are as similar
            in character to those existing purposes as is practical in the
            circumstances.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (6) Where the governing board members have passed a resolution
under subsection (2), they must —

    (a) give public notice of the resolution in such manner as they
         think reasonable in the circumstances; and

       (b) send a copy of the resolution to the Commissioner, together
            with a statement of their reasons for passing it.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (7) The Commissioner may, when considering the resolution,
require the governing board members to provide additional
information or explanation —

    (a) as to the circumstances in and by reference to which they
         have determined to act under this section; or

    (b) relating to their compliance with this section in connection
         with the resolution,

and the Commissioner must take into account any representations
made to the Commissioner by persons appearing to him or her to be
interested in the charity where those representations are made within
the period of 6 weeks beginning with the date when the
Commissioner receives a copy of the resolution by virtue of
subsection (6)(b).

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (8) Where the Commissioner has so received a copy of a resolution
from any governing board members and it appears to the
Commissioner that they have complied with this section in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       28

connection with the resolution, the Commissioner must, within the
period of 3 months beginning with the date when he or she receives
the copy of the resolution, notify them in writing either —

(a) that the Commissioner concurs with the resolution; or

(b) that he or she does not concur with it.

                                                                   [34/2010]

 (9) Where the Commissioner so notifies his or her concurrence with
the resolution, then —

(a) if the resolution was passed under subsection (2)(a) or (b),
     the governing board members must arrange for all the
     property of the transferor charity to be transferred in
     accordance with the resolution and on terms that any
     property so transferred —

          (i) must be held and applied by the charity to which it is
              transferred (called in this Act the transferee charity)
              for the purposes of that charity; but

          (ii) must, as property of the transferee charity,
               nevertheless be subject to any restrictions on
               expenditure to which it is subject as property of the
               transferor charity,

          and those governing board members must arrange for it to
          be so transferred by such date as may be specified in the
          notification; and

       (b) if the resolution was passed under subsection (2)(c) or (d),
            the governing instruments of the charity are deemed, as
            from such date as may be specified in the notification, to
            have been modified in accordance with the terms of the
            resolution.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (10) For the purpose of enabling any property to be transferred to a
charity under this section, the Commissioner has the power, at the
request of the governing board members of that charity, to make
orders vesting any property of the transferor charity —

(a) in the governing board members of the firstmentioned
     charity or in any trustee for that charity; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
29  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

       (b) in any other person nominated by those governing board
            members to hold the property in trust for that charity.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (11) The Minister may by order amend subsection (1)(a) by
substituting a different sum for the sum for the time being
specified in the order.

 (12) In this section, references to the transfer of property to a
charity are references to its transfer —

    (a) to the governing board members;

    (b) to any trustee for the charity; or

    (c) to a person nominated by the governing board members to
        hold it in trust for the charity,

as the governing board members may determine.

                                                                 [19

                                                             [34/2010]

Power to spend capital

 18.—(1) This section applies to a charity if —

       (a) it has a permanent endowment which does not consist of or
            comprise any land; and

       (b) its gross income in its last financial year did not exceed
            $5,000,

and it is neither an exempt charity nor a charitable company.

 (2) Where the governing board members of a charity to which this
section applies are of the opinion that the property of the charity is too
small, in relation to its purposes, for any useful purpose to be
achieved by the expenditure of income alone, they may resolve for
the purposes of this section that the charity ought to be freed from the
restrictions with respect to expenditure of capital to which its
permanent endowment is subject.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) Any resolution passed under subsection (2) must be passed by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the governing board members
present and voting on the resolution.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       30

 (4) Before passing such a resolution, the governing board members
must consider whether any reasonable possibility exists of effecting a
transfer or division of all the charity’s property under section 17
(disregarding any such transfer or division as would, in their opinion,
impose on the charity an unacceptable burden of costs).

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) Where the governing board members have passed a resolution
under subsection (2), they must —

(a) give public notice of the resolution in such manner as they
     think reasonable in the circumstances; and

       (b) send a copy of the resolution to the Commissioner, together
            with a statement of their reasons for passing it.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (6) The Commissioner may, when considering the resolution,
require the governing board members to provide additional
information or explanation —

(a) as to the circumstances in and by reference to which they
     have determined to act under this section; or

(b) relating to their compliance with this section in connection
     with the resolution,

and the Commissioner must take into account any representations
made to the Commissioner by persons appearing to him or her to be
interested in the charity where those representations are made within
the period of 6 weeks beginning with the date when the
Commissioner receives a copy of the resolution by virtue of
subsection (5)(b).

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (7) Where the Commissioner has so received a copy of a resolution
from any governing board members and it appears to the
Commissioner that they have complied with this section in
connection with the resolution, the Commissioner must, within the
period of 3 months beginning with the date when he or she receives
the copy of the resolution, notify them in writing either —

(a) that the Commissioner concurs with the resolution; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
31  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) that he or she does not concur with it.

                                                             [34/2010]

 (8) Where the Commissioner so notifies his or her concurrence with
the resolution, the governing board members have, as from the date
specified in the notification, power by virtue of this section to expend
any property of the charity without regard to the restrictions
mentioned in subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (9) The Minister may by order amend subsection (1)(b) by
substituting a different sum for the sum for the time being
specified in the order.

 (10) A charity is deemed for the purposes of this section to have a
permanent endowment unless all property held for the purposes of the
charity may be expended for those purposes without distinction
between capital and income, and in this section “permanent
endowment” means, in relation to any charity, property held
subject to a restriction on its being expended for the purposes of
the charity.

                                                                               [20

                                    PART 7

              APPLICATION OF PROPERTY CY-PRÈS
            AND ASSISTANCE AND SUPERVISION OF
         CHARITIES BY COURT AND COMMISSIONER

Occasions for applying property cy-près
 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the circumstances in which the

original purposes of a charitable gift can be altered to allow the
property given or part of it to be applied cy-près are as follows:

       (a) where the original purposes, in whole or in part —

               (i) have been as far as may be fulfilled;

              (ii) cannot be carried out; or

             (iii) cannot be carried out according to the directions
                   given and to the spirit of the gift;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       32

(b) where the original purposes provide a use for part only of
     the property available by virtue of the gift;

          (c) where the property available by virtue of the gift and other
              property applicable for similar purposes can be more
              effectively used in conjunction and to that end can suitably,
              regard being had to the spirit of the gift, be made applicable
              to common purposes;

(d) where the original purposes were laid down by reference to
     an area which then was but has since ceased to be a unit for
     some other purpose, or by reference to a class of persons or
     to an area which has for any reason since ceased to be
     suitable, regard being had to the spirit of the gift, or to be
     practical in administering the gift; or

          (e) where the original purposes, in whole or in part, have, since
              they were laid down —

          (i) been adequately provided for by other means;

          (ii) ceased, as being useless or harmful to the community
               or for other reasons, to be in law charitable; or

          (iii) ceased in any other way to provide a suitable and
                effective method of using the property available by
                virtue of the gift, regard being had to the spirit of the
                gift.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not affect the conditions which must be
satisfied in order that property given for charitable purposes may be
applied cy-près, except insofar as those conditions require a failure of
the original purposes.

 (3) References in subsections (1) and (2) to the original purposes of
a gift are to be construed, where the application of the property given
has been altered or regulated by a scheme or otherwise, as referring to
the purposes for which the property is for the time being applicable.

 (4) It is declared that a trust for charitable purposes places a trustee
under a duty, where the case permits and requires the property or
some part of it to be applied cy-près, to secure its effective use for
charity by taking steps to enable it to be so applied.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
33  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (5) This section applies to property given for charitable purposes,
even though it was so given before 1 January 1995.

                                                                               [21

Application cy-près of gifts of donors unknown or disclaiming

 20.—(1) Property given for specific charitable purposes which fail
is to be applicable cy-près as if given for charitable purposes
generally, where it belongs to a donor who —

       (a) after the prescribed advertisements and inquiries have been
            published and made, and after the prescribed period
            beginning with the publication of those advertisements
            has expired, cannot be identified or cannot be found; or

       (b) has executed a disclaimer in the prescribed form of the
            donor’s right to have the property returned.

 (2) Where the prescribed advertisements and inquiries have been
published and made by or on behalf of trustees with respect to any
such property, the trustees are not liable to pay to any person in
respect of the property if no claim by the person to be interested in the
property is received by the trustees before the expiry of the period
specified in subsection (1)(a).

 (3) For the purposes of this section, property is conclusively
presumed (without any advertisement or inquiry) to belong to donors
who cannot be identified, insofar as it consists of the proceeds of —

       (a) cash collections made by means of collecting boxes or by
            other means not adapted for distinguishing one gift from
            another; or

       (b) any lottery, competition, entertainment, sale or similar
            money-raising activity, after allowing for property given to
            provide prizes or articles for sale or otherwise to enable the
            activity to be undertaken.

 (4) The General Division of the High Court may by order direct that
property not falling within subsection (3) is, for the purposes of this
section, to be treated (without any advertisement or inquiry) as
belonging to donors who cannot be identified, where it appears to the
General Division of the High Court —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       34

(a) that it would be unreasonable, having regard to the
     amounts likely to be returned to the donors, to incur
     expense with a view to returning the property; or

(b) that it would be unreasonable, having regard to the nature,
     circumstances and amount of the gifts, and to the lapse of
     time since the gifts were made, for the donors to expect the
     property to be returned.

                                                                                                 [40/2019]

 (5) Where property is applied cy-près by virtue of this section, the
donor is deemed to have parted with all the donor’s interest at the time
when the gift was made; but where property is so applied as
belonging to donors who cannot be identified or cannot be found, and
is not so applied by virtue of subsection (3) or (4) —

(a) the scheme must specify the total amount of that property;

(b) the donor of any part of that amount is entitled, if the donor
     makes a claim not later than 6 months after the date on
     which the scheme is made, to recover from the charity for
     which the property is applied a sum equal to that part, less
     any expenses properly incurred by the governing board
     members of the charity after that date in connection with
     claims relating to the donor’s gift; and

      (c) the scheme may include directions as to the provision to be
           made for meeting any such claim.

                                                                                                         [34/2010]

(6) Where —

(a) any sum is, in accordance with any directions in a scheme,
     set aside for meeting any such claims; but

(b) the aggregate amount of any such claims actually made
     exceeds the relevant amount,

then if the Commissioner so directs, each of the donors in question is

entitled only to such proportion of the relevant amount as the amount
of the donor’s claim bears to the aggregate amount referred to in
paragraph (b); and for this purpose, “relevant amount” means the
amount of the sum so set aside after deduction of any expenses

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
35  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

properly incurred by the governing board members of the charity in
connection with claims relating to the donors’ gifts.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (7) For the purposes of this section, charitable purposes are deemed
to fail where any difficulty in applying property to those purposes
makes that property or the part not applicable cy-près available to be
returned to the donors.

 (8) In this section, except insofar as the context otherwise requires,
references to a donor include persons claiming through or under the
original donor, and references to property given include the property
for the time being representing the property originally given or
property derived from it.

 (9) This section applies to property given for charitable purposes,
even though it was so given before 1 January 1995.

                                                                               [22

Entrusting charity property to Public Trustee and termination
of trust

 21.—(1) The General Division of the High Court may by order vest
any property held by or in trust for a charity in the Public Trustee or
authorise or require the persons in whom the property is vested to
transfer it to the Public Trustee, or appoint any person to transfer the
property to the Public Trustee; and the property may be vested in the
Public Trustee with or without powers of management as the General
Division of the High Court may direct.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Where any property is held by or in trust for a charity, or is
comprised in any testamentary gift to a charity, the property may, with
the agreement of the Public Trustee, be transferred to him or her; and
the Public Trustee’s receipt for the property comprised in a
testamentary gift to a charity is a complete discharge of the
personal representative.

 (3) Where property is vested in the Public Trustee in trust for a
charity, the General Division of the High Court may make an order
discharging the Public Trustee from the trusteeship as respects all or
any of that property.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       36

 (4) Where the Public Trustee is discharged from his or her
trusteeship of any property, or the trusts on which he or she holds
any property come to an end, the General Division of the High Court
may make such vesting orders and give such directions as may seem
to the General Division of the High Court to be necessary or
expedient in consequence.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) No person is —

       (a) liable for any loss occasioned by the person’s acting in
            conformity with an order under this section or by the
            person’s giving effect to anything done pursuant to that
            order; or

(b) excused from so doing by reason of the order under this
     section having been in any respect improperly obtained.

 (6) No vesting or transfer of any property pursuant to this section
operates as a breach of a covenant or condition against alienation or
give rise to a forfeiture.

                                                                               [23

Concurrent jurisdiction with General Division of High Court
for certain purposes

 22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commissioner
may, with the consent of the Attorney-General, by order exercise the
same jurisdiction and powers as are exercisable by the General
Division of the High Court in charity proceedings for the following
purposes:

       (a) establishing a scheme for the administration of a charity;

       (b) appointing, discharging or removing a governing board
            member of a charity or trustee for a charity, or removing an
            officer or employee;

       (c) vesting or transferring property, or requiring or entitling
            any person to call for or make any transfer of property or
            any payment.

                                                                                                [34/2010; 40/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
37  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) The Commissioner does not have jurisdiction under this section
to try or determine the title to any property as between a charity or
trustee for a charity and a person holding or claiming the property or
an interest in it adversely to the charity, or to try or determine any
question as to the existence or extent of any charge or trust.

 (3) Before exercising any jurisdiction under this section, the
Commissioner must give notice of his or her intention to do so to
each of the governing board members except those who cannot be
found or who have no known address in Singapore; and the notice
may be given by post and, if given by post, may be addressed to the
governing board member’s last known address in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) The Commissioner must not exercise his or her jurisdiction
under this section in any case (not referred to him or her by order of
the General Division of the High Court) which, by reason of its
contentious character, or of any special question of law or of fact
which it may involve, or for other reasons, the Commissioner may
consider more fit to be adjudicated on by the General Division of the
High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) An appeal against any order of the Commissioner under this
section may at any time, within the 3 months beginning with the day
following that on which the order is published, be brought in the
General Division of the High Court by the charity or any of the
governing board members, or any person interested in the charity, or
by any person removed from any office or employment by the order.

                                                                               [24

                                                                                                [34/2010; 40/2019]

Power to act for protection of charities

 23.—(1) Where, at any time after the Commissioner has instituted
an inquiry under section 10 with respect to any charity, the
Commissioner is satisfied —

       (a) that there is or has been any misconduct or
            mismanagement in the administration of the charity; and

       (b) that it is necessary or desirable to act for the purpose of
            protecting the property of the charity or securing a proper

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       38

          application for the purposes of the charity of that property
          or of property coming to the charity,

the Commissioner may, with the consent of the Attorney-General, do
one or more of the following things:

          (c) by order remove any trustee, governing board member,
              officer, agent or employee of the charity who has been
              responsible for or privy to the misconduct or
              mismanagement or has by his or her conduct contributed
              to it or facilitated it;

(d) by order establish a scheme for the administration of the
     charity;

       (e) despite anything in the governing instruments of the
            charity, by order restrict the transactions which may be
            entered into, or the nature or amount of the payments
            which may be made, in the administration of the charity
            without the Commissioner’s approval.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Where, at any time after the Commissioner has instituted an
inquiry under section 10 with respect to any charity, the
Commissioner is satisfied —

(a) that there is or has been any misconduct or
     mismanagement in the administration of the charity; or

(b) that it is necessary or desirable to act for the purpose of
     protecting the property of the charity or securing a proper
     application for the purposes of the charity of that property
     or of property coming to the charity,

the Commissioner may, with the consent of the Attorney-General, do
one or more of the following things:

          (c) by order suspend any trustee, governing board member,
              officer, agent or employee of the charity from the exercise
              of his or her office or employment pending consideration
              being given to his or her removal (whether under this
              section or otherwise);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
39  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (d) by order appoint such number of additional governing
         board members or key officers as the Commissioner
         considers necessary for the proper administration of the
         charity;

    (e) by order vest any property held by or in trust for the charity
        in the Public Trustee, or require the persons in whom the
        property is vested to transfer it to the Public Trustee, or
        appoint any person to transfer the property to the Public
        Trustee;

    (f) order any person who holds any property on behalf of the
        charity, or of any trustee for it, not to part with the property
        without the approval of the Commissioner;

    (g) order any debtor of the charity not to make any payment in
         or towards the discharge of the debtor’s liability to the
         charity without the approval of the Commissioner;

    (h) by order restrict (despite anything in the governing
         instruments of the charity) the transactions which may
         be entered into, or the nature or amount of the payments
         which may be made, in the administration of the charity
         without the approval of the Commissioner;

    (i) by order appoint (in accordance with section 25) a receiver
        and manager in respect of the property and affairs of the
        charity.

                                                                                                    [34/2010]

 (3) The references in subsections (1) and (2) to misconduct or
mismanagement (despite anything in the governing instruments of
the charity) extend to the employment for remuneration or reward of
persons acting in the affairs of the charity, or for other administrative
purposes, of sums which are excessive in relation to the property
which is or is likely to be applied or applicable for the purposes of the
charity.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) The Commissioner may remove a governing board member or
key officer of a charity by order made of the Commissioner’s own
motion where the governing board member or key officer —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       40

(a) has been convicted, whether in Singapore or in any other
     country or territory, and whether before, on or after 1 April
     2018, of an offence involving moral turpitude (but not one
     mentioned in section 28(1)(a)) and the conviction is not
     spent;

(b) acts as a governing board member or key officer of the
     charity despite being disqualified under section 28(1)
     or (6);

          (c) is a corporation in liquidation;

(d) lacks capacity (within the meaning of the Mental Capacity
     Act 2008) to exercise his or her functions as governing
     board member or key officer;

          (e) has not acted, and will not declare his or her willingness or
              unwillingness to act; or

          (f) is outside Singapore or cannot be found or does not act, and
              his or her absence or failure to act impedes the proper
              administration of the charity.

                                                                                   [21/2008; 34/2010; 2/2018]

 (5) Where a person resigns as a trustee, a governing board member,
an officer, an agent or an employee of a charity —

(a) after the Commissioner has instituted an inquiry under
     section 10 with respect to the charity (whether before, on or
     after 1 April 2018), but before the Commissioner (with the
     consent of the Attorney-General) makes an order under
     subsection (1)(c) removing the person; or

(b) after the Commissioner has given notice (whether before,
     on or after 1 April 2018) under section 30(3) of intention to
     remove the person under subsection (4), but before the
     Commissioner makes the order,

the Commissioner may, if the Commissioner is satisfied that the
person is a person against whom the Commissioner would have made
an order of removal under subsection (1)(c) or (4) if the person had
not resigned, make an order declaring the person as such.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
41  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (6) Section 30 applies to an order under subsection (5) as it applies
to an order of removal under subsection (1) or (4).

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (7) Subject to section 47, an order of removal under subsection (1)
or (4), and an order under subsection (5), remains in force despite any
ground on which the order was made ceasing to exist or have effect
(including a conviction becoming spent).

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (8) The Commissioner may, by order made of his or her own
motion, appoint a person to be a governing board member or key
officer —

    (a) in place of a governing board member or key officer
         removed by the Commissioner under this section or
         otherwise;

    (b) where there are no governing board members, or where by
         reason of vacancies in their number or the absence or
         incapacity of any of their number the charity cannot apply
         for the appointment;

    (c) where there is a single governing board member or key
        officer, not being a corporation, and the Commissioner is
        of the opinion that it is necessary to increase the number for
        the proper administration of the charity; or

       (d) where the Commissioner is of the opinion that it is
            necessary for the proper administration of the charity to
            have an additional governing board member or key officer,
            because one of the existing governing board members or
            key officers who ought nevertheless to remain a governing
            board member or key officer cannot be found or does not
            act or is outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (9) The powers of the Commissioner under this section to remove
or appoint governing board members or trustees for a charity include
the power to make any order with respect to the vesting in or transfer
to the governing board members or trustees for a charity of any
property as the Commissioner may make on the removal or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       42

appointment of a governing board member or trustee for the charity
by the Commissioner under section 22.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (10) Any order under this section for the removal or appointment of
a governing board member or trustee for a charity, or for the vesting
or transfer of any property, has the like effect as an order made under
section 22.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (11) Section 22(4) applies to orders under this section as it applies
to orders under section 22.

 (12) An order of suspension under subsection (2)(c) must be for a
fixed period, but the Commissioner may make one or more further
extensions of that order, each for a fixed period.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (13) The total period of suspension under an order of suspension
under subsection (2)(c) and every extension under subsection (12) of
such an order must not exceed 24 months.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (14) Without affecting section 47, any order of suspension under
subsection (2)(c) and any extension under subsection (12) may make
provision for any matter arising out of the suspension; and if there is
any inconsistency amongst the provisions made by any of the orders,
the latest in time prevails.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (15) For the purposes of subsection (14), provision may be made in
particular —

(a) to enable any person to execute any instrument in the name
     of the person suspended or to otherwise act for the person
     suspended; and

(b) in the case of a governing board member of a charity, for
     adjusting any rules governing the proceedings of the
     governing board members to take account of the reduction
     in the number capable of acting.

                                                                                                  [2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
43  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (16) Before exercising any jurisdiction under this section
(otherwise than by virtue of subsection (2) or (5)), the
Commissioner must give notice of his or her intention to do so to —

    (a) each of the governing board members; and
    (b) in the case of an order —

    (i) for the removal of any trustee for the charity or key
        officer;

    (ii) for the appointment of an additional trustee for the
         charity or a key officer; or

    (iii) for the transfer of any property,

    each trustee for the charity or key officer concerned,

except those who cannot be found or who have no known address in
Singapore.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (17) Before exercising any jurisdiction under subsection (5), the
Commissioner must give notice of the Commissioner’s intention to
do so to —

    (a) the person against whom the Commissioner proposes to
         make the order under that subsection, unless the person
         cannot be found or has no known address in Singapore; and

       (b) each of the governing board members of the charity from
            which the person resigned, if the Commissioner thinks it
            necessary to do so.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (18) A notice referred to in subsection (16) or (17) may be given by
post and, if given by post, may be addressed to the last known address
in Singapore of the governing board member or trustee for the charity
or key officer or person, as the case may be.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (19) The Commissioner must, at such intervals as he or she thinks
fit, review any order made by the Commissioner under
subsection (2)(c), (e), (f), (g), (h) or (i); and if on any such review
it appears to the Commissioner that it would be appropriate to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       44

discharge the order in whole or in part, he or she must so discharge it
(whether subject to any saving or transitional provisions or not).

 (20) Any person who contravenes an order under subsection (2)(f),
(g) or (h) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (21) Nothing in subsection (20) is to be taken to preclude the
bringing of proceedings for breach of trust against any governing
board member or trustee for a charity in respect of a contravention of
an order under subsection (2)(f) or (h) (whether proceedings in
respect of the contravention are brought against the governing board
member or trustee under subsection (20)).

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (22) This section does not apply to an exempt charity.
                                                                               [25

Power to suspend or remove trustees, etc., from membership of
charity

 24.—(1) This section applies where the Commissioner makes an
order under section 23 removing or suspending any trustee,
governing board member, officer, agent or employee of a charity
from his or her office or employment (as the case may be) and the
person in question is a member of the charity.

                                                                                                [10/2007; 34/2010]

 (2) If the order suspends the person in question from his or her
office or employment, the Commissioner may also make an order
suspending his or her membership of the charity for the period for
which he or she is suspended from his or her office or employment.

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (3) If the order removes the person in question from his or her office
or employment, the Commissioner may also make an order —

       (a) terminating his or her membership of the charity; and

       (b) prohibiting him or her from resuming his or her
            membership of the charity for not less than 2 years or
            such time as the Commissioner may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
45  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (4) Any person who continues in his or her membership of a charity
in contravention of an order under subsection (2) or (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                 [10/2007; 2/2018]

(5) This section does not apply to an exempt charity.

                                                               [25A

                                                             [10/2007]

Supplementary provisions relating to receiver and manager
appointed for charity

 25.—(1) The Commissioner may under section 23(2)(i) appoint to
be receiver and manager in respect of the property and affairs of a
charity any person (other than an officer or employee of the charity)
that the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (2) Without limiting section 47(1), any order made by the
Commissioner under section 23(2)(i) may make provision with
respect to the functions to be discharged by the receiver and manager
appointed by the order; and those functions must be discharged by the
receiver and manager under the supervision of the Commissioner.

 (3) In connection with the discharge of those functions, any such
order may provide —

       (a) for the receiver and manager appointed by the order to
            have such powers and duties of the governing board
            members of the charity concerned (whether arising under
            this Act or otherwise) as are specified in the order; and

       (b) for any powers or duties exercisable or falling to be
            performed by the receiver and manager by virtue of
            paragraph (a) to be exercisable or performed by the
            receiver and manager to the exclusion of those governing
            board members.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       46

 (4) Where a person has been appointed receiver and manager by
any such order, the Commissioner may apply to the General Division
of the High Court for directions in relation to any particular matter
arising in connection with the discharge of those functions.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) The General Division of the High Court may, on an application
under subsection (4), give such directions or make such orders
declaring the rights of any person (whether before the General
Division of the High Court or not), as the General Division of the
High Court thinks just; and the costs of the application must be paid
by the charity concerned.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (6) The Minister may make regulations with respect to —

(a) the appointment and removal of receivers and managers
     appointed in accordance with this section;

(b) the remuneration of such receivers and managers out of the
     income of the charities concerned; and

       (c) the making of reports to the Commissioner by receivers
            and managers.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (7) Regulations made under subsection (6) may, in particular,
authorise the Commissioner to require a receiver and manager so
appointed to give security for the due discharge of the functions of the
receiver and manager, to determine the amount of remuneration of the
receiver and manager, and to disallow any amount of remuneration in
such circumstances as are prescribed by the regulations.

                                                                               [26

Power to direct application of charity property

 26.—(1) This section applies where the Commissioner is
satisfied —

       (a) that a person or persons in possession or control of any
            property held by or on trust for a charity is or are unwilling
            to apply it properly for the purposes of the charity; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
47  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) that it is necessary or desirable to make an order under this
         section for the purpose of securing a proper application of
         that property for the purposes of the charity.

                                                                                                     [10/2007]

 (2) The Commissioner may by order direct the person or persons
concerned to apply the property in the manner specified in the order.

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (3) An order under this section —

    (a) may require action to be taken whether or not it would
         otherwise be within the powers exercisable by the person
         or persons concerned in relation to the property; but

    (b) may not require any action to be taken which is prohibited
         by any written law or expressly prohibited by the
         governing instruments of the charity.

                                                                                         [10/2007; 34/2010]

 (4) Anything done by a person under the authority of an order under
this section is deemed to be properly done in the exercise of the
powers mentioned in subsection (3)(a).

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (5) Subsection (4) does not affect any contractual or other rights
arising in connection with anything which has been done under the
authority of such an order.

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (6) Any person who contravenes an order under subsection (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                 [10/2007; 2/2018]

                                                             [26A

Power to direct application of charity property after charity
ceases to exist

 27.—(1) This section applies in respect of any institution that was a
charity (whether or not registered under section 7) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       48

(a) from the time the institution ceases to be a charity, or
     ceases to exist or operate, whichever occurs earlier; and

(b) where the Commissioner is satisfied —

          (i) that a person or persons in possession or control of
              any property held by or on trust for the institution is
              or are unwilling to apply it properly for the purposes
              of the trust; and

          (ii) that it is necessary or desirable to make an order
               under this section for the purpose of securing a
               proper application of that property for the purposes
               of the trust.

                                                                                                 [10/2007]

 (2) The Commissioner may by order direct the person or persons
concerned to apply the property in the manner specified in the order.

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (3) An order under this section —

(a) may require action to be taken whether or not it would
     otherwise be within the powers exercisable by the person
     or persons concerned in relation to the property; but

(b) may not require any action to be taken which is prohibited
     by any written law or expressly prohibited by the
     governing instruments of the institution.

                                                                                     [10/2007; 34/2010]

 (4) Anything done by a person under the authority of an order under
this section is deemed to be properly done in the exercise of the
powers mentioned in subsection (3)(a).

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (5) Subsection (4) does not affect any contractual or other rights
arising in connection with anything which has been done under the
authority of such an order.

                                                                                                           [10/2007]

 (6) Any person who contravenes an order under subsection (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
49  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

fine not exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                             [26B

                                                                                                 [10/2007; 2/2018]

Disqualifications and effects of removal

 28.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a person is disqualified
from acting in any capacity specified in subsection (2) on the
happening of any of the following, whether before, on or after 1 April
2018:

    (a) the person is convicted, whether in Singapore or in any
         other country or territory, of any offence involving —

    (i) dishonesty (including fraud, corruption, bribery and
        deception); or

    (ii) terrorism, terrorism financing or money laundering;

    (b) the person becomes an undischarged bankrupt;

    (c) the person makes a composition or arrangement with, or
        grants a trust deed for, the person’s creditors and has not
        been discharged in respect of it;

    (d) the person becomes subject to any disqualification under
         section 149, 149A or 154 of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                                      [2/2018]

 (2) The capacities for the purposes of subsection (1) are the
following:

    (a) any member of the governing body or any key officer of —

    (i) any charity;

    (ii) any person that is a governing board member of any
         charity; or

    (iii) any person that is a member of any charity;

    (b) any trustee for any charity.

                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) However, a person who is subject to a disqualification in
subsection (1)(b) or (d) may act in a capacity specified in
subsection (2) in relation to a charity or person (as the case may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       50

be) that is a company, if the person subject to the disqualification has
permission under section 148, 149 or 154 of the Companies Act 1967
to act as a director, or to (directly or indirectly) take part in or be
concerned in the management, of that company.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) A person ceases to be disqualified under subsection (1) in the
following applicable circumstances:

(a) for disqualification under subsection (1)(a), when the
     person’s conviction is spent;

(b) for disqualification under subsection (1)(b), when the
     person is discharged from bankruptcy;

          (c) for disqualification under subsection (1)(c), when the
              person is discharged from the composition, arrangement or
              trust deed;

       (d) for disqualification under subsection (1)(d), when the
            period of disqualification ends.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section affects section 7E(2)(d)
of the Registration of Criminals Act 1949.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (6) A person is disqualified from acting in any capacity specified in
subsection (7) on the happening of all of the following, whether
before, on or after 1 April 2018:

(a) the person is removed as a governing board member, an
     officer, an agent or an employee, of a charity or trustee for
     a charity by an order made by the Commissioner under
     section 23(1)(c) or by the General Division of the High
     Court, or an order is made under section 23(5) declaring
     that the person is one against whom the Commissioner
     would have made an order of removal under
     section 23(1)(c); and

(b) the removal is or would have been on the ground of any
     misconduct or mismanagement in the administration of the
     charity —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
51  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (i) for which the person was responsible;

    (ii) to which the person was privy; or

             (iii) which the conduct of the person contributed to or
                   facilitated.

                                                                                                 [2/2018; 40/2019]

 (7) The capacities for the purposes of subsection (6) are the
following:

    (a) any capacity specified in subsection (2);

    (b) each of the relevant capacities as follows:

    (i) if the person was removed as an officer of a charity,
        any officer of that charity;

    (ii) if the person was removed as an agent of a charity,
         any agent of that charity;

             (iii) if the person was removed as an employee of a
                   charity, any employee of that charity.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (8) A person who is removed (whether before, on or after 1 April
2018) as a governing board member or a key officer of a charity by an
order made under section 23(4), is disqualified from acting —

    (a) as any governing board member of that charity; and

    (b) as any key officer of that charity.

                                                             [2/2018]

 (9) Where an order is made under section 23(5) declaring that a
person is one against whom the Commissioner would have made an
order of removal under section 23(4) in respect of a charity, the
person is disqualified from acting —

    (a) as any governing board member of that charity; and

    (b) as any key officer of that charity.

                                                                [27

                                                             [2/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       52

Persons acting in capacity from which disqualified

 29.—(1) Any person who acts in a capacity that the person is by
reason of section 28 disqualified from acting in (called in this section
a disqualified capacity) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (2) Any thing done by the person acting in a disqualified capacity is
not invalid by reason only of the person’s disqualification.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that any person —

(a) has acted in a disqualified capacity; and

(b) has received any money by way of remuneration or for
     expenses, or any benefit in kind, for acting in that
     disqualified capacity,

then, the Commissioner may by order direct the person to repay the
whole or any part of the money, or benefit (at the monetary value
determined by the Commissioner), received.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) If the person to whom the order of the Commissioner under
subsection (3) is given, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with the order within the time specified in the order —

(a) the person shall be guilty of an offence; and

       (b) any amount under the order that is not repaid accrues and is
            recoverable as a debt due from that person to the person
            who paid the amount, or provided the benefit represented
            by the amount, to the firstmentioned person.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) A person who is guilty of an offence under this section shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                               [28

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
53  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

Publicity for proceedings under this Part

 30.—(1) The Commissioner must not make any order under this
Part to establish a scheme for the administration of a charity unless at
least one month previously there has been given public notice of the
Commissioner’s proposals, inviting representations to be made to the
Commissioner within a time specified in the notice, which must be at
least one month from the date of the notice.

 (2) The Commissioner must not make any order under this Part to
appoint, discharge or remove a governing board member or key
officer of a charity or trustee for a charity (other than the Public
Trustee), unless at least one month previously there has been given
the like public notice as is required by subsection (1) for an order
establishing a scheme, but this subsection does not apply in the case
of —

    (a) an order under section 23(2)(d); or

       (b) an order discharging or removing a governing board
            member or key officer or trustee if the Commissioner is of
            the opinion that it is unnecessary and not in the interest of
            the charity to give publicity to the proposal to discharge or
            remove the governing board member or key officer or
            trustee.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) Before the Commissioner makes an order under this Part to
remove without his or her consent a governing board member of a
charity or trustee for a charity, or an officer, agent or employee of a
charity, the Commissioner must, unless that person cannot be found
or has no known address in Singapore, give him or her at least
one month’s notice of the Commissioner’s proposal, inviting
representations to be made to the Commissioner within a time
specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) Where notice is given of any proposal as required by
subsection (1), (2) or (3), the Commissioner must take into
consideration any representation made about the proposal within
the time specified in the notice, and may (without further notice)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       54

proceed with the proposal either without modification or with such
modification as appears to the Commissioner to be desirable.

 (5) Where the Commissioner makes an order which is subject to
appeal under section 22(5), the order must be published either by
giving public notice of it or by giving notice of it to all persons
entitled to appeal against it under that subsection, as the
Commissioner thinks fit.

 (6) Where the Commissioner makes an order under this Part to
establish a scheme for the administration of a charity, a copy of the
order must, for at least one month after the order is published, be
available for public inspection at all reasonable times at the office of
the Commissioner.

 (7) Any notice to be given under this section of any proposals or
order must give such particulars of the proposals or order, or such
directions for obtaining information about them, as the
Commissioner thinks sufficient and appropriate, and any public
notice is to be given in the manner the Commissioner thinks sufficient
and appropriate.

 (8) Any notice to be given under this section, other than a public
notice, may be given by post and, if given by post, may be addressed
to the recipient’s last known address in Singapore.

                                                                               [29

Power to authorise dealings with charity property, etc.

 31.—(1) Subject to this section, where it appears to the
Commissioner that any action proposed or contemplated in the
administration of a charity is expedient in the interests of the charity,
the Commissioner may by order sanction that action, whether or not it
would otherwise be within the powers exercisable by the governing
board members in the administration of the charity; and anything
done under the authority of that order is deemed to be properly done
in the exercise of those powers.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) An order under this section may be made so as to authorise a
particular transaction, compromise or the like, or a particular
application of property, or so as to give a more general authority,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
55  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

and (without limiting subsection (1)) may authorise a charity to use
common premises, or employ a common staff, or otherwise combine
for any purpose of administration, with any other charity.

 (3) An order under this section may give directions as to the manner
in which any expenditure is to be borne and as to other matters
connected with or arising out of the action thereby authorised; and
where anything is done pursuant to an authority given by any such
order, any directions given in connection therewith are binding on the
governing board members for the time being as if contained in the
governing instruments of the charity except that those directions may
on the application of the charity be modified or superseded by a
further order.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the directions which may be
given by an order under this section in particular include directions
for —

    (a) meeting any expenditure out of a specified fund;

    (b) charging any expenditure to capital or to income;

    (c) requiring expenditure charged to capital to be recouped out
        of income within a specified period;

    (d) restricting the costs to be incurred at the expense of the
         charity; or

    (e) the investment of moneys arising from any transaction.
                                                                           [30

Taking of legal proceedings

 32.—(1) Charity proceedings may be taken with reference to a
charity either by the charity, or by any of the governing board
members, or by any person interested in the charity, but not by any
other person.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Subject to this section, no charity proceedings relating to a
charity (other than an exempt charity) may be entertained or
proceeded with in any court unless the taking of the proceedings is
authorised by order of the Commissioner.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       56

 (3) The Commissioner must not, without special reasons, authorise
the taking of charity proceedings where in his or her opinion the case
can be dealt with by him or her under the powers of this Act.

 (4) This section does not require any order for the taking of
proceedings in a pending cause or matter or for the bringing of any
appeal.

 (5) Where subsection (2) requires the taking of charity proceedings
to be authorised by an order of the Commissioner, the proceedings
may nevertheless be entertained or proceeded with if, after the order
had been applied for and refused, permission to take the proceedings
was obtained from the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) Nothing in subsections (1) to (5) applies to the taking of
proceedings by the Attorney-General, with or without a relator.

 (7) Where it appears to the Commissioner, on an application for an
order under this section or otherwise, that it is desirable for legal
proceedings to be taken with reference to any charity (other than an
exempt charity) or its property or affairs, and for the proceedings to
be taken by the Attorney-General, the Commissioner must so inform
the Attorney-General, and send the Attorney-General such statements
and particulars as the Commissioner thinks necessary to explain the
matter.

 (8) In this section, “charity proceedings” means proceedings in the
General Division of the High Court brought under the jurisdiction of
the General Division of the High Court with respect to charities, or
brought under the jurisdiction of the General Division of the High
Court with respect to trusts in relation to the administration of a trust
for charitable purposes.

                                                                               [31

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Charitable companies

 33.—(1) Where a charity may be wound up by the General Division
of the High Court under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018, an application for it to be wound up under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
57  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

that Act by the General Division of the High Court may be made by
the Attorney-General, as well as by any person authorised by that Act.

                                                                                                [40/2018; 40/2019]

 (2) Where a charity is a company or other body corporate, and has
power to alter the instruments establishing or regulating it as a body
corporate, no exercise of that power which has the effect of the body
corporate ceasing to be a charity is valid so as to affect the application
of —

    (a) any property acquired under any disposition or agreement
         previously made otherwise than for full consideration in
         money or money’s worth;

    (b) any property representing property referred to in
         paragraph (a);

    (c) any property representing income which has accrued
        before the alteration is made; or

    (d) the income from any property referred to in paragraphs (a)
         to (c).
                                                                           [32

Power to relieve governing board members, etc., from personal
liability

 34.—(1) If in any proceedings for negligence, default, breach of
duty or breach of trust against a person to whom this section applies,
whether appointed by the court or otherwise, it appears to the court
before which the proceedings are taken that —

       (a) the person is or may be liable in respect thereof; but

       (b) the person has acted honestly and reasonably and, having
            regard to all the circumstances of the case, the person ought
            fairly to be excused for the negligence, default or breach,

the court may relieve the person either wholly or partly from the
person’s liability on such terms as the court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Where any person to whom this section applies has reason to
apprehend that any claim will or might be made against the person in
respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       58

the person may apply to the General Division of the High Court for
relief, and the General Division of the High Court has the same power
to relieve the person as it would have had, under subsection (1), if it
had been a court before which proceedings against the person for
negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust had been
brought.

                                                                                                [34/2010; 40/2019]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the circumstances of the case
referred to in subsection (1) may include the circumstances connected
with the appointment of the person.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (4) To avoid doubt and without limiting subsection (1), “liability”
includes the liability of a person to whom this section applies to
account for profits made or received.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) The persons to whom this section applies are —

(a) governing board members or trustees for charities; and

(b) receivers and managers in respect of the property and
     affairs of a charity (whether appointed under this Act or
     otherwise).
                                                                     [32A

                                                                                                 [34/2010]

                                    PART 8

                       FUND-RAISING APPEALS

Interpretation of this Part

 35.—(1) In this Part and any regulations made for the purpose of
this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “charitable contributions”, in relation to any representation
         made by any commercial participator or other person,
         means —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
59  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (a) the whole or part of —

    (i) the consideration given for goods or services
        sold or supplied by the commercial participator
        or person; or

    (ii) any proceeds (other than such consideration) of
         a promotional venture undertaken by the
         commercial participator or person; or

    (b) sums given by the commercial participator or person
         by way of donation in connection with the sale or
         supply of any such goods or services (whether the
         amount of such sums is determined by reference to
         the value of the goods or services or otherwise);

    “charitable institution” means a charity or an institution (other
       than a charity) which is established for charitable, benevolent
       or philanthropic purposes;

    “collector”, in relation to a fund-raising appeal, means any
       person by whom that appeal is made (whether made by the
       person alone or with others and whether made by the person
       for remuneration or otherwise);

    “commercial fund-raiser” means any person who for reward
       solicits or otherwise procures money or other property for, or
       purportedly for, the benefit of a charity or any charitable,
       benevolent or philanthropic purpose;

    “commercial participator”, in relation to any charitable
       institution, means any person who carries on for gain a
       business other than a fund-raising business, but in the course
       of that business, engages in any promotional venture in the
       course of which it is represented that charitable contributions
       are to be given to or applied for the benefit of the institution;

    “fund-raising appeal” means —

    (a) an appeal by any person, whether made expressly or
         impliedly, for money or other property (whether as
         consideration or otherwise) that is made in
         association with a representation that the whole or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       60

          any part of the money or property, or proceeds or
          returns from the money or property, will be applied
          for any charitable, benevolent or philanthropic
          purpose; or

        (b) the receipt by any person of any money or other
             property (whether as consideration or otherwise) that
             is given in whole or in part for any charitable,
             benevolent or philanthropic purpose;

“fund-raising business” means any business carried on for gain
   and wholly or primarily engaged in soliciting or otherwise
   procuring money or other property for charitable, benevolent
   or philanthropic purposes;

“proceeds”, in relation to a fund-raising appeal, means all
   money or other property given (whether for consideration or
   otherwise) in response to the fund-raising appeal in question;

“promotional venture” means any advertising or sales campaign
   or any other venture undertaken for promotional purposes;

“represent” and “solicit” mean, respectively, represent and
   solicit in any manner, whether expressly or impliedly and
   whether done —

          (a) by speaking directly to the person or persons to
               whom the representation or solicitation is addressed
               (whether or not in the presence of the person or
               persons); or

          (b) by means of a statement published in any newspaper,
               film or radio or television programme,

   or otherwise, and references to a representation or solicitation
   are to be construed accordingly;

“services” includes facilities and, in particular —

          (a) access to any premises or event;

          (b) membership of any organisation;

          (c) the provision of advertising space; and

          (d) the provision of any financial facilities,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
61  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

         and references to the supply of services are to be construed
         accordingly.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (2) In this Part and any regulations made for the purpose of this
Part —

    (a) any reference to charitable purposes, where occurring in
         the context of a reference to charitable, benevolent or
         philanthropic purposes, is a reference to charitable
         purposes whether or not the purposes are charitable
         within the meaning of any rule of law; and

      (b) any reference to soliciting or otherwise procuring money
           or other property is a reference to soliciting or otherwise
           procuring money or other property whether any
           consideration is, or is to be, given in return for the
           money or other property or not.

                                                                                                         [34/2010]

(3) Where —

    (a) any solicitation of money or other property for the benefit
         of a charitable institution is made in accordance with
         arrangements between any person and that institution; and

    (b) under those arrangements, the person will be responsible
         for receiving on behalf of the institution money or other
         property given in response to the solicitation,

then (if the person would not be so regarded apart from this
subsection) that person is regarded for the purposes of this Part as
soliciting money or other property for the benefit of the institution.

                                                                               [39

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Prohibition on conducting fund-raising appeal without permit

 36.—(1) No person may conduct or participate in any fund-raising
appeal unless the person is —

       (a) exempt from the provision of this section; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       62

(b) a person to whom a permit has been granted by the
     Commissioner in accordance with regulations made for the
     purpose of this section.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (3) The Minister, or such person as he or she may appoint, may
exempt any person or class of persons from the provision of this
section.

                                                                             [39A

Power of Commissioner to prohibit or restrict, or suspend,
fund-raising appeal

 37.—(1) Despite any exemption or permit granted under section 36,
the Commissioner may, at any time, by order in the Gazette —

       (a) prohibit or stop the conduct of any fund-raising appeal by
            any charity or person; or

       (b) restrict the conduct of any fund-raising appeal by any
            charity or person by imposing conditions,

if the Commissioner is satisfied —

       (c) that any fund-raising appeal conducted by the charity or
            person has not been conducted in good faith for charitable,
            benevolent or philanthropic purposes;

       (d) that any of the persons who have conducted a fund-raising
            appeal, or any persons associated with any such appeal, are
            not fit and proper persons to administer, or to be associated
            with, a fund-raising appeal for charitable, benevolent or
            philanthropic purposes;

       (e) that any fund-raising appeal has been improperly
            administered;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
63  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

    (f) that, in connection with any fund-raising appeal conducted,
        the provisions of this Act or the regulations or the
        conditions imposed by the Commissioner were not
        complied with by any person conducting or participating
        in the appeal; or

    (g) that, in the public interest, the fund-raising appeal should
         not be conducted.

                                                                                          [10/2007; 2/2018]

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1) and despite any exemption or
permit granted under section 36, the Commissioner may by order in
the Gazette suspend the conduct of any fund-raising appeal if the
Commissioner has reason to suspect that the circumstances in
paragraph (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of subsection (1) apply to the
fund-raising appeal.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) An order of suspension under subsection (2) must be for a fixed
period, but the Commissioner may make one or more further
extensions of that order, each for a fixed period.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) The total period of suspension under the order of suspension and
every extension under subsection (3) must not exceed 24 months.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) Any person who conducts any fund-raising appeal in
contravention of any order made by the Commissioner under
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                             [39B

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

Regulations relating to fund-raising appeals

 38.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposes of
this Part, including provisions —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       64

(a) regulating the conduct of commercial fund-raisers and
     commercial participators in relation to fund-raising
     appeals, and in particular —

          (i) prescribing the form and content of agreements
              between a charitable institution and commercial
              fund-raisers, commercial participators or any other
              persons conducting or participating in a fund-raising
              appeal for the benefit of the institution;

          (ii) providing for the refund of charitable contributions
               or cancellation of agreements or undertakings made
               by donors in response to a fund-raising appeal, where
               notice of the donor’s intention to cancel the
               agreement, undertaking or charitable contribution
               has been given to the relevant fund-raiser within a
               prescribed period;

          (iii) requiring commercial fund-raisers or commercial
                participators or other persons conducting or
                participating in a fund-raising appeal for the
                benefit of a charitable institution to make available
                to the institution books, documents or other records
                (however kept) which relate to the institution; and

          (iv) specifying the manner in which money or other
               property acquired by such commercial fund-raisers
               or commercial participators or other persons for the
               benefit of, or otherwise falling to be given to or
               applied by such persons for the benefit of, charitable
               institutions is to be transmitted to the institutions;
               and

(b) regulating the raising of funds for charitable, benevolent or
     philanthropic purposes (whether by commercial
     fund-raisers or commercial participators or otherwise) or
     the conduct of fund-raising appeals, including provisions
     prohibiting persons under a prescribed age from acting as
     collectors and prohibiting others from causing them so to
     act and determining the remuneration of the collectors.

                                                                                                 [34/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
65  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) In subsection (1)(a)(iv), the reference to money or other
property includes a reference to money or other property which, in
the case of a commercial fund-raiser or commercial participator, has
been acquired by the commercial fundraiser or commercial
participator otherwise than in accordance with an agreement with a
charitable institution, but by reason of any solicitation or
representation in consequence of which it has been acquired, is
held by the commercial fundraiser or commercial participator on trust
for such an institution.

                                                                             [39C

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Exclusion of judicial review

 39.—(1) There is to be no judicial review in any court of any act
done or decision made by the Minister or Commissioner under any
regulations made for the purpose of section 36 except in regard to any
question relating to compliance with any procedural requirement of
the regulations governing that act or decision.

 (2) In this section, “judicial review” includes proceedings instituted
by way of —

       (a) an application for a Mandatory Order, a Prohibiting Order
            or a Quashing Order;

       (b) an application for a declaration or an injunction; or

       (c) any other suit or action relating to or arising out of any act
            done or decision made pursuant to any power conferred
            upon the Minister or Commissioner by any regulations
            made for the purpose of section 36.
                                                                               [40

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       66

          PART 9

          INSTITUTIONS OF A PUBLIC CHARACTER AND
                       SECTOR ADMINISTRATORS

Interpretation of this Part
 40. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“institution of a public character” means a registered charity or
   an exempt charity in Singapore —

          (a) that is approved as an institution of a public character
               by the Minister, Commissioner or any Sector
               Administrator on the application of the charity; or

        (b) which is deemed as an institution of a public
             character under any written law;

“sector”, in relation to a Sector Administrator, means the class or
   classes of charities or institutions of a public character that
   the Minister has by notice in the Gazette designated as under
   the supervision of that Sector Administrator;

“Sector Administrator” means any person or organisation
   appointed to be a Sector Administrator under section 41.

                                                                    [40A

                                                                   [2/2018]

Appointment of Sector Administrators

 41. The Minister may appoint any person or organisation to be a
Sector Administrator for one or more of the following purposes:

       (a) regulating the administration of charities within the sector;

       (b) approving institutions as institutions of a public character
            from among such class or classes of institutions as the
            Minister or Commissioner may determine;

       (c) regulating the administration of donations made to
            institutions of a public character within the sector;

       (d) exercising such other functions and powers as the Minister
            may determine.
                                                                             [40B

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
67  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

Regulations relating to institutions of a public character and
Sector Administrators

 42.—(1) The Minister may make regulations to provide for —

    (a) the manner and criteria to be adopted —

    (i) for the approval of institutions of a public character;
        and

    (ii) for the extension and revocation of the approval
         granted to institutions of a public character;

    (b) the regulation of any amendment of the constitution or any
         other governing instrument of any institution of a public
         character;

    (c) the use of donations, issue of tax deduction receipts and
        maintenance of donation records and accounts by
        institutions of a public character;

    (d) the regulation of institutions of a public character,
         including the application of provisions in the Act to
         institutions of a public character, whether or not such
         institutions are charities;

    (e) the delegation by the Commissioner to any Sector
        Administrator of any of the Commissioner’s functions or
        powers, except those which are exercisable under
        sections 22, 23, 24, 26, 27 and 31;

    (f) the procedures for appeal against decisions made by Sector
        Administrators; and

    (g) generally giving effect to or for carrying out the purposes
         of this Part.

 (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may provide for the
consequences of a contravention by any person of any regulation
made under that subsection, as follows:

    (a) where the person is a registered charity or an exempt
         charity, the Minister, Commissioner or appropriate Sector
         Administrator may revoke the approval of the person as an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.             Charities Act 1994                            68

          institution of a public character given by the Minister,
          Commissioner or Sector Administrator, as the case may be;

(b) that the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
     liable on conviction —

          (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
              for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both; and

          (ii) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine
               not exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day
               during which the offence continues after conviction;

          (c) for a contravention of a regulation relating to the issue of
              tax deduction receipts which is not an offence under
              paragraph (b), that the person shall be liable to pay to the
              Commissioner a financial penalty, being the higher of the
              following amounts:

          (i) $100;

              (ii) the amount ascertained by the formula 0.4 × the total
                   value of the donations (as determined under
                   section 37(3) of the Income Tax Act 1947) which
                   ought not to be allowed a deduction under
                   section 37(3) of the Income Tax Act 1947 by
                   reason of the contravention, if any.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) Any financial penalty payable by any institution of a public
character under subsection (2)(c) is recoverable as a debt due to the
Government.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) The Commissioner may remit or refund the whole or any part of
the financial penalty payable by any institution of a public character
under subsection (2)(c).

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) Any financial penalty paid under subsection (2)(c) must, after
deducting any remission or refund under subsection (4), be paid into
the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
69  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

 (6) Any financial penalty imposed under subsection (2)(c) is
deemed to be interest on tax for the purposes of section 33(2) of
the Limitation Act 1959.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (7) Where any Sector Administrator contravenes any regulations
made under subsection (1), the Minister may revoke the appointment
of the Sector Administrator.

                                                                             [40C

                                   PART 10

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Manner of giving notice of charity meetings, etc.

 43.—(1) All notices which are required or authorised by the
governing instruments of a charity to be given to a governing board
member, member or subscriber may be sent by post, and, if sent by
post, may be addressed to any address given as the address of the
governing board member, member or subscriber (as the case may be)
in the list of governing board members, members or subscribers for
the time being in use at the office or principal office of the charity.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Where any such notice required to be given under subsection (1)
is given by post, it is deemed to have been given by the time at which
the letter containing it would be delivered in the ordinary course of
post.

 (3) No notice required to be given under subsection (1) of any
meeting or election need be given to any governing board member,
member or subscriber, if in the list of governing board members,
members or subscribers, the governing board member, member or
subscriber (as the case may be) has no address in Singapore.

                                                                               [41

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Power of Commissioner to call for documents and search
records

 44.—(1) The Commissioner may, for the purpose of discharging
the functions of the Commissioner under this Act, by order require

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       70

any person to furnish the Commissioner, within the time specified in
the order —

(a) any information relating to any charity or fund-raising
     appeal that —

          (i) is within the knowledge of the person; or

          (ii) comes within the knowledge of the person within a
               period specified in the order that does not exceed
               2 years after the date of the order; and

(b) any document relating to any charity or fund-raising appeal
     that —

          (i) is in the possession or under the control of the
              person; or

            (ii) comes into the possession or under the control of the
                  person within a period specified in the order that
                  does not exceed 2 years after the date of the order.

                                                                                               [34/2010; 2/2018]

(2) An order under subsection (1)(b) may require —

(a) a copy or extract of the document to be furnished to the
     Commissioner; or

       (b) unless the document forms part of the records or other
            documents of a court or public authority, the document
            itself to be furnished to the Commissioner for the
            Commissioner’s inspection.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) The Commissioner is entitled without payment to keep any
copy or extract furnished to the Commissioner under subsection (1);
and where a document furnished to the Commissioner for his or her
inspection relates only to one or more charities and is not held by any
person entitled as trustee or otherwise to the custody of the document,
the Commissioner may keep it or may deliver it to the governing
board members or to any other person who may be so entitled.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (4) The Commissioner or any officer authorised by the
Commissioner in that behalf has at all times full and free access to
all buildings, places, books, documents and other papers for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
71  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

purpose of discharging his or her functions under this Act, and may,
without payment, inspect, copy or make extracts from any such
books, documents or papers.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) The Commissioner may take possession of any books,
documents or papers where in his or her opinion —

    (a) the inspection, copying thereof or extraction therefrom
         cannot reasonably be performed without taking
         possession;

    (b) the books, documents or papers may be interfered with or
         destroyed unless possession is taken; or

       (c) the books, documents or papers may be required as
            evidence in proceedings for an offence under this Act or
            any regulations made thereunder.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (6) The Commissioner may require any person to give orally or in
writing, as may be required, all such information concerning any
charity or fund-raising appeal as may be demanded of the person by
the Commissioner for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (7) The rights conferred by this section, in relation to information
recorded otherwise than in legible form, include the right to require
the information to be made available in legible form for inspection or
for a copy or extract to be made of or from it.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (8) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requirement specified in any order under subsection (1) or
any requirement under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       72

 (9) Subject to section 46(2), no person is, by virtue of this section,
obliged to disclose any particulars as to which the person is under any
statutory obligation to observe secrecy.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (10) In this section, “fund-raising appeal” has the meaning given by
section 35(1).

                                                                             [41A

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Supply of false or misleading information to Commissioner,
etc.

 45.—(1) Any person who knowingly or recklessly provides the
Commissioner with information which is false or misleading in a
material particular shall be guilty of an offence if the information is
provided —

       (a) in purported compliance with a requirement imposed by or
            under this Act; or

       (b) otherwise than as mentioned in paragraph (a) but in
            circumstances in which the person providing the
            information intends, or could reasonably be expected to
            know, that it would be used by the Commissioner for the
            purpose of discharging the Commissioner’s functions
            under this Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Any person who wilfully alters, suppresses, conceals or
destroys any document which the person is or is liable to be
required, by or under this Act, to produce to the Commissioner shall
be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                                 [34/2010; 2/2018]

 (4) In this section, references to the Commissioner include
references to any person conducting an inquiry under section 10.

                                                                             [41B

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
73  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

Disclosure of information to and by Commissioner

 46.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and to any express restriction
imposed by or under any other written law, a body or person to whom
this section applies may disclose to the Commissioner any
information received by that body or person under or for the
purposes of any written law, where the disclosure is made by the body
or person for the purpose of enabling or assisting the Commissioner
to discharge any of the Commissioner’s functions.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not have effect in relation to the
Comptroller of Income Tax; but the Comptroller may disclose to
the Commissioner the following information:

    (a) the name and address of any institution which has for any
         purpose been treated by the Comptroller as established for
         charitable purposes;

    (b) information as to the purposes of an institution and the
         governing instruments under which it is established or
         regulated, where the disclosure is made by the Comptroller
         in order to give or obtain assistance in determining whether
         the institution ought for any purpose to be treated as
         established for charitable purposes;

    (c) information with respect to an institution which has for any
        purpose been treated as so established but which appears to
        the Comptroller —

    (i) to be, or to have been, carrying on activities which
        are not charitable; or

              (ii) to be, or to have been, applying any of its funds for
                   purposes which are not charitable.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Commissioner may disclose to a
body or person to whom this section applies any information received
by the Commissioner under or for the purposes of any written law,
where the disclosure is made by the Commissioner —

    (a) for any purpose connected with the discharge of the
         Commissioner’s functions; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       74

(b) for the purpose of enabling or assisting that body or person
     to discharge any of the functions of that body or person.

                                                                                                 [34/2010]

 (4) Where any information disclosed to the Commissioner under
subsection (1) or (2) is so disclosed subject to any express restriction
on the disclosure of the information by the Commissioner, the
Commissioner’s power of disclosure under subsection (3) is, in
relation to the information, exercisable by him or her subject to any
such restriction.

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

 (5) This section applies to the following bodies and persons:

(a) any Government department;

(b) any statutory authority;

          (c) any police officer;

(d) any other body or person discharging functions of a public
     nature (including a body or person discharging regulatory
     functions in relation to any description of activities).

                                                                                                 [34/2010]

 (6) Nothing in this section is to be construed as affecting any power
of disclosure exercisable apart from this section.

                                                                             [41C

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Miscellaneous provisions as to orders of Commissioner

 47.—(1) Any order made by the Commissioner under this Act may
include such incidental or supplementary provisions as the
Commissioner thinks expedient for carrying into effect the objects
of the order.

 (2) Where the Commissioner makes an order under this Act, then
(without affecting the requirements of this Act where the order is
subject to appeal) the Commissioner may personally give such public
notice as he or she thinks fit of the making or contents of the order, or
may require it to be given by any person on whose application the
order is made or by any charity affected by the order.

 (3) The Commissioner may, at any time within 12 months after
making an order under this Act, if the Commissioner is satisfied that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
75  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

the order was made by mistake or on misrepresentation or otherwise
than in conformity with this Act, with or without any application or
reference to him or her, discharge the order in whole or in part, and
subject or not to any saving or other transitional provisions.

 (4) Except for the purposes of subsection (3) or of an appeal under
this Act, an order made by the Commissioner under this Act is
deemed to have been duly and formally made and not be called in
question on the ground only of irregularity or informality, but (subject
to any further order) have effect according to its tenor.

                                                                               [42

Service of documents

 48.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual;

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address; or

       (g) by transmitting an electronic record of it to an account
            which the individual has with any electronic transactions
            service.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       76

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other like officer of the
     partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address;

(d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address; or

       (e) by transmitting an electronic record of it to an account
            which the partnership has with any electronic transactions
            service.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other like officer of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association, or the limited
     liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
     registered office or principal office in Singapore;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
              office or principal office in Singapore;

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s email address; or

          (e) by transmitting an electronic record of it to an account
              which the body corporate or unincorporated association
              has with any electronic transactions service.

                                                                                                            [2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
77  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person;

    (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
        after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
        undelivered); and

    (d) if the document is sent through any electronic transactions

         service, at the time when the electronic record of the
         document enters the person’s account with the electronic
         transactions service.

                                                                                                      [2/2018]

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (7) A document may be served on a person under this Act through
any electronic transactions service only if the document is a
prescribed document.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (9) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes a direction, order or notice permitted or
       required by this Act to be served;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       78

“electronic transactions service” means any electronic
   transactions service provided for in regulations made under
   section 57;

“email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                                                      [43

                                                                   [2/2018]

Holding out as registered charity or institution of a public
character

 49. Where any institution holds itself out to be a registered charity
or an institution of a public character when it is not a registered
charity or an institution of a public character (as the case may be), the
institution and any person acting or purporting to act on behalf of or
for the benefit of the institution, unless the person proves that such
holding out by the institution was made without the person’s
knowledge or consent, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                             [43A

                                                                                                           [34/2010]

Offences by corporations

 50.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
79                Charities Act 1994                         2020 Ed.

    (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

                                                             [2/2018]

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the corporation; or

    (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
         corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
         of the corporation in relation to the commission of
         the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       80

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                  [2/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not that corporation is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (6) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.
                                                                           [44

                                                                                                  [2/2018]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 51.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
81             Charities Act 1994                            2020 Ed.

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
        member of its governing body;

    (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

    (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
          unincorporated association or partnership and in a
          position to influence the conduct of that
          unincorporated association or partnership in
          relation to the commission of the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership, and shall be liable on conviction to be
punished accordingly.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       82

and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the unincorporated association or the partnership for an offence
under this Act, and applies whether or not that unincorporated
association or that partnership is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.
                                                                        [44A

                                                                                                  [2/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
83  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

Enforcement of orders of Commissioner

52. A person guilty of disobedience —

    (a) to an order of the Commissioner under section 22 or 23
         requiring a transfer of property or payment to be called for
         or made; or

    (b) to an order of the Commissioner requiring a default under
         this Act to be made good,

may on the application of the Commissioner to the General Division
of the High Court be dealt with as for disobedience to an order of the
General Division of the High Court.

                                                                               [45

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Appeals from Commissioner

 53.—(1) Provisions may be made by Rules of Court for regulating
appeals to the General Division of the High Court under this Act
against orders or decisions of the Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) On such an appeal —

       (a) the Attorney-General is entitled to appear and be heard;
            and

       (b) such other persons as the Rules allow or as the General
            Division of the High Court may direct may appear and be
            heard.
                                                                               [46

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Protection from liability

 54.—(1) No action, suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against
the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, any Assistant
Commissioner, any officer appointed or authorised by the
Commissioner or any Sector Administrator appointed under
section 41, for anything done (including any statement made) or
omitted to be done in good faith in the course of or in connection
with —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       84

(a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
     Act or any other written law;

(b) the performance or purported performance of any function
     or the discharge or purported discharge of any duty under
     this Act or any other written law; or

          (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act or
              any other written law.

                                                                                                            [2/2018]

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the Commissioner, Deputy
Commissioner, every Assistant Commissioner and other officer
appointed under section 3, and the Government, are not liable for any
loss or damage, suffered by any person by reason of any error or
omission resulting from —

(a) any malfunction in any electronic transactions service
     provided for in regulations made under section 57, if the
     malfunction occurred despite the Commissioner, Deputy
     Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner, officer or
     Government having acted in good faith and with
     reasonable care to prevent the malfunction; or

(b) any fault or failure on the part of the person using the
     electronic transactions service.
                                                                     [46A

                                                                                                  [2/2018]

Power to compound

 55.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act or any regulations made under this Act that is prescribed as an
offence which may be compounded by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
prescribed for the offence.

 (2) The Minister may prescribe the offences which may be
compounded.

                                                                               [47

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
85                       Charities Act 1994                  2020 Ed.

Prosecution of offences

 56. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act may, with the authorisation of the
Public Prosecutor, be conducted by any public officer who is
authorised to conduct such proceedings by the Commissioner.

                                                                             [47A

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Regulations

 57.—(1) The Minister may make any regulations that the Minister
considers necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the
provisions and purposes of this Act and for the due administration
thereof.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), any such regulations may —

       (a) prescribe the procedures and conditions for the registration
            of charities or any class of charities;

       (b) prescribe the fees for the inspection of the register of
            charities or of other material kept by the Commissioner and
            for other services provided by the Commissioner;

       (c) provide for the obligations, or otherwise to regulate the
            conduct, of any person that is given or provided with any
            money or other property (whether as consideration or
            otherwise) for or in connection with any charitable,
            benevolent or philanthropic purpose;

       (d) provide for an electronic transactions service for any one or
            more of the following purposes:

               (i) for any person to submit or serve on the
                   Commissioner electronically any application,
                   document or information;

              (ii) for the Commissioner to serve any notice or other
                   document on any person under this Act;

             (iii) for the Commissioner to publish or supply to any
                   person any application, document or information;

             (iv) for any other prescribed purpose;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
2020 Ed.  Charities Act 1994                                       86

      (e) prescribe any other matter or thing required or permitted to
           be prescribed or necessary to be prescribed to give effect to
           this Act.

                                                                                               [34/2010; 2/2018]

(3) Regulations made for the purpose of subsection (2)(d) may —

(a) provide for the manner in which and the persons by which
     the electronic transactions service may be used;

(b) require that any prescribed application, document or
     information must be submitted to or served on the
     Commissioner only through the electronic transactions
     service;

          (c) provide that any prescribed application, document, or
              information, submitted to a prescribed public authority in
              the prescribed manner, is treated as having been submitted
              through the electronic transactions service to the
              Commissioner;

(d) provide for the circumstances and the manner for
     correcting any error or omission in any application,
     document or information submitted, served, published or
     supplied through the electronic transactions service;

          (e) despite the Evidence Act 1893, provide for the
              admissibility of electronic records, and copies and
              printouts of such records, of any application, document
              or information submitted, served, published or supplied
              through the electronic transactions service, as evidence of
              the facts contained in the record, copy or printout; and

          (f) provide for any other matter necessary or incidental to the
              use, maintenance or management of the electronic
              transactions service.

                                                                                                           [2/2018]

 (4) Regulations made under this Act (other than section 42) may
provide that any person that contravenes the regulations shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
87  Charities Act 1994                                       2020 Ed.

fine not exceeding $100 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                             [2/2018]

 (5) All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [48

Transitional provisions

 58.—(1) Any document or order made or thing done under any
provision of the repealed Charities Act (Cap. 37, 1985 Revised
Edition), and every such document, order or thing so far as it is
subsisting or in force on 1 January 1995, continues and has effect as if
it had been made or done under the corresponding provisions of this
Act.

 (2) In any written law, any reference to the repealed Charities Act
(Cap. 37, 1985 Revised Edition) is read as a reference to this Act.

                                                                               [49

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 2(1) and 7(6)(a)

                                  EXEMPT CHARITIES

 The following institutions, so far as they are charities, are exempt charities within
the meaning of this Act:

        (a) any university or educational institution, hospital or religious body
             established by an Act of Parliament;

        (b) any other institution which the Minister by order declares to be an
             exempt charity for the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                          CHARITIES ACT 1994

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                 PART 1
                          CHARITIES ACT
           (CHAPTER 37, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 20 of 1982 — Charities Act, 1982

Bill           : 9/1982

First Reading  : 27 July 1982

Second and Third Readings : 31 August 1982

Commencement   : 1 January 1983

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Charities Act (Chapter 37)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                           PART 2
                 CHARITIES ACT 1994
               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

3. Act 22 of 1994 — Charities Act 1994

Bill           : 18/1994

First Reading  : 25 July 1994

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 1994

Commencement   : 1 January 1995 (except Part VII)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                          ii

4. 1995 Revised Edition — Charities Act (Chapter 37)

Operation                 : 15 March 1995

5. Act 43 of 1999 — Telecommunications Act 1999
   (Amendments made by section 76(3) of the above Act)

Bill                      : 33/1999

First Reading             : 11 October 1999

Second Reading            : 23 November 1999

Notice of Amendments      : 23 November 1999

Third Reading             : 23 November 1999

Commencement              : 1 December 1999 (section 76(3))

6. Act 26 of 2001 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                          2001

   (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 24/2001

First Reading             : 11 July 2001

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 2001

Commencement              : 1 March 2002 (section 3)

7. Act 5 of 2004 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 59 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                      : 3/2004

First Reading             : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement              : 1 April 2004 (section 59 read with
                                item (2) of the Schedule)

8. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005

Date of First Reading     : 17 October 2005
                                (Bill No. 30/2005 published on
                                18 October 2005)

Date of Second and Third  : 21 November 2005
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2006 (sections 5 and 6 —
                                Amendment of Charities Act)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
               iii

9. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
   (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (6) of the First Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement   : 1 April 2006 (section 5 read with
                     item (6) of the First Schedule)

10. Act 2 of 2007 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 2 of the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2007

Commencement   : 12 February 2007 (section 2)

11. Act 10 of 2007 — Charities (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill           : 22/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 23 January 2007

Commencement   : 1 March 2007

12. 2007 Revised Edition — Charities Act (Chapter 37)

Operation      : 31 October 2007

13. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(9) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill           : 11/2008

First Reading  : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement   : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                     item 1(9) of the Second Schedule)

14. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 12 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 11/2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                      iv

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 12 of the Sixth Schedule)

15. Act 34 of 2010 — Charities (Amendment) Act 2010

Bill                  : 29/2010

First Reading         : 18 October 2010

Second Reading        : 22 November 2010

Notice of Amendments  : 22 November 2010

Third Reading         : 22 November 2010

Commencement          : 1 March 2011

16. Act 2 of 2018 — Charities (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill                  : 49/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (except sections 10, 12
                            and 13)
                            1 March 2019 (sections 12 and 13)
                            9 June 2020 (section 10)

17. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 458 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 458)

18. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 18 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                      v

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 18 of the Schedule)

19. 2020 Revised Edition — Charities Act 1994

Operation             : 31 December 2021

20. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

21. Act 36 of 2022 — Accountancy Functions (Consolidation) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 29/2022

First Reading         : 3 October 2022

Second and Third Readings : 9 November 2022

Commencement          : 1 April 2023

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
.                                 vi
G.N.
G.N. Sp.                 Abbreviations
L.A.
L.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
M.            Gazette Notification
              Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
Parl.         Legislative Assembly
S             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
S.I.          Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S (N.S.)      Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.S.G.G.      Malaysia)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Parliament
              Subsidiary Legislation
              Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                   COMPARATIVE TABLE
                    CHARITIES ACT 1994

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2007 Ed.
                   1—(1) and (2)
1                  PART IIA
PART 3             4A
5                  4B
6                  PART III
PART 4             5
7
                      (3A)
   (4)                (3B)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
   (8)                (6A)
   (9)                (7)
   (10)               (8)
   (11)               (9)
   (12)            6
8                  7
9                  8
10                 9 [Repealed by Act 34 of 2010]
—                  10 [Repealed by Act 34 of 2010]
—                  11 [Repealed by Act 34 of 2010]
—                  PART IV
PART 5             12
11                 13
12

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
         2020 Ed.  ii

13                                    2007 Ed.
—                   14
14                  15 [Repealed by Act 34 of 2010]
15                  16
16                  17
PART 6              18
17                  PART V
18                  19
PART 7              20
19                  PART VI
20                  21
21                  22
22                  23
23                  24
                    25
   (5)
   (6)                  (4A)
   (7)                  (4B)
   (8)                  (4C)
   (9)                  (5)
   (10)                 (6)
   (11)                 (7)
   (12)                 (8)
   (13)                 (9)
   (14)                 (9A)
   (15)                 (9B)
   (16)                 (9C)
   (17)                 (10)
   (18)                 (10AA)
                        (10A)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
         2020 Ed.  iii

   (19)                                2007 Ed.
   (20)                 (11)
   (21)                 (12)
   (22)                 (13)
24                      (14)
25                   25A
26                   26
27                   26A
28                   26B
29                   27
30                   28
31                   29
32                   30
33                   31
34                   32
—                    32A
                     PART VII [Repealed by Act 34 of
35                   2010]
36                   39
37                   39A
                     39B
   (2)                  (1A)
   (3)                  (1B)
   (4)                  (1C)
   (5)                  (2)
38                   39C
39                   40
PART 9               PART VIIIA
40                   40A
41                   40B

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                   iv

         2020 Ed.           2007 Ed.

42                 40C
PART 10            PART IX
43                 41
44                 41A

   (2)                (1A)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
   (8)                (7)
   (9)                (8)
   (10)               (9)
45                 41B
46                 41C
47                 42
48                 43
49                 43A
50                 44
51                 44A
52                 45
53                 46
54                 46A
55                 47
56                 47A
57                 48
   (4)                (3A)
   (5)                (4)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
                 2020 Ed.  v         2007 Ed.
58
[Omitted as spent]          49
                                (2)
   (2)                          (3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2023
