THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
                               ACT 2019

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                                                                2020 Ed.

Singapore Food Agency
         Act 2019

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                  ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND
                            POWERS OF AGENCY

3. Singapore Food Agency
4. Agency is body corporate
5. Functions of Agency
6. Powers of Agency
7. Directions of Minister, etc.
8. Agency’s symbol, etc.

                                        PART 3

           CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY

             Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal

 9. Membership of Agency
10. Appointment of Agency members
11. Membership disqualification
12. Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
13. Premature vacancies
14. Acting Chairperson and members
15. Removal of member
16. Resignation from office
17. Validity of acts, etc.

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.                       Act 2019                             2

          Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

Section   Term of appointment
          Remuneration, etc.
   18.    Vacation of office
   19.
   20.

                                        PART 4

                      DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY

                               Division 1 — Meetings

21. Procedure generally
22. Notice of meetings
23. Quorum
24. Presiding at meetings
25. Voting at meetings
26. Execution of documents

                    Division 2 — Committees and delegation

27. Appointment of committees
28. Proceedings of committees
29. Ability to delegate, etc.
30. Power of delegate, etc.

                                        PART 5

                             PERSONNEL MATTERS

31. Appointment of Chief Executive
32. Officers, etc.
33. Public servants
34. Preservation of secrecy
35. Protection from personal liability

                                        PART 6

                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

36. Financial year
37. Revenue and property of Agency
38. Bank accounts
39. Financial accounts and records
40. Power of investment
41. Issue of shares, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
   Singapore Food Agency

3                       Act 2019                                        2020 Ed.

Section
   42. Borrowing power

                                           PART 7

                                         GENERAL

   43. Improper use of accreditation, certification or inspection mark
   44. Composition of offences
   45. Offences by corporations
   46. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   47. Service of documents
   48. Regulations

                                           PART 8

                 TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS TO AGENCY

   49. Interpretation of this Part
   50. Transfer of undertakings to Agency
   51. Transferring secondments and employees to Agency
   52. General preservation of employment terms
   53. Transfer of records
   54. Confirmation of transfers
   55. to 66. [Omitted]

                                           PART 9

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

   67. Transitional arrangements for AVA financial statements, etc.
   68. Saving and transitional provisions for amendments to

            Environmental Public Health Act 1987
   69. Saving and transitional provisions for amendments to various

            Acts
   70. Saving for amendments to Sale of Food Act 1973
   71. Saving and transitional regulations

An Act to establish the Singapore Food Agency.

                          [1 April 2019: Except sections 55, 56 and 63 ;
                  2 April 2019: Section 55 ; 1 June 2019: Section 56 ;

                                            1 September 2019: Section 63 ]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
             Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.     Act 2019                                               4

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Singapore Food Agency Act 2019.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “accreditation, certification or inspection mark” means any
         accreditation, certification or inspection mark of the Agency;

      “Agency” means the Singapore Food Agency established by
         section 3;

      “animal” includes —

              (a) any amphibian, bird, crustacean, fish, insect,
                   mammal (other than a human being), mollusc,
                   reptile or any form of aquatic life; and

              (b) any egg, embryo, ova or sperm of any thing in
                   paragraph (a);

      “Chairperson”, in relation to the Agency, means the member of
         the Agency who is appointed under section 12 as the
         Chairperson of the Agency, and includes any person
         appointed under section 14 to act in that capacity;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Agency
         appointed under section 31, and includes any person acting in
         that capacity;

      “committee” means a committee of the Agency appointed under
         section 27;

      “committee member” means an individual appointed to be a
         member of a committee;

      “delegate” means a person to whom the Agency under
         section 29(1) delegates the performance or exercise of any
         of its functions or powers;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
   Singapore Food Agency

5  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

   “Deputy Chairperson”, in relation to the Agency, means a
      member of the Agency who is appointed under section 12 as a
      Deputy Chairperson of the Agency;

   “food” has the meaning given by section 2A of the Sale of Food
      Act 1973;

   “food business” has the meaning given by section 2B of the Sale
      of Food Act 1973;

   “food industry” means an industry consisting of —

   (a) food businesses; and

   (b) persons who carry on any business in connection
        with one or more, or any part, or any combination, of
        the following:

   (i) the production of primary produce;

   (ii) the supply of food or the safety of food;

   (iii) activities involving agricultural science or
         agri-biotechnology in relation to food or food
         biotechnology;

   “food standard” means a standard about any of the following
      matters:

   (a) the composition of food, including —

   (i) the maximum amounts of contaminants or
       residues that may be present in the food;

   (ii) the maximum or minimum amount of additives
        that must or may not be present in the food;

   (iii) its microbiological status and safety; and

   (iv) the method of sampling and testing the food to
        determine its composition;

   (b) the production of food;

   (c) the packaging, storage or handling of food;

   (d) any information about food including labelling,
        promotion or advertising;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  6

          (e) the interpretation of food standards;

          (f) such other public health matters relating to food as
              are prescribed;

“functions”, in relation to the Agency, means functions
   conferred on the Agency by this Act or any other Act;

“member”, in relation to the Agency, means a member of the
   Agency appointed under section 10, and includes any person
   appointed under section 14 to act in that capacity;

“primary produce” means —

          (a) food from or involved in the production of primary
               produce;

          (b) an animal or plant intended for human or animal
               consumption;

          (c) raw material taken from an animal or plant for food
               which is in substantially the same condition as when
               it was taken from the animal or plant; or

          (d) a substance, other than food —

          (i) that is labelled as not intended for consumption
              by humans or animals;

          (ii) that the Minister is satisfied is likely to be
               consumed by humans or animals and if so
               consumed, poses a food safety hazard to the
               humans or animals; and

              (iii) that is prescribed to be primary produce;
“production of primary produce” includes the following:

          (a) the growing, cultivation, picking, harvesting,
               collection or catching (including fishing) of
               animals or plants;

          (b) the transport or delivery of primary produce;

          (c) the sorting or grading of primary produce;

          (d) the freezing, packaging, refrigeration, storage,
               treating or washing of primary produce, including —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
   Singapore Food Agency

7  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

   (i) enhancing the appearance of the primary
       produce (such as by waxing or oiling it); and

   (ii) dealing with the primary produce solely to kill
        bacteria or germs in the produce, or to ripen it;

   (e) the dismembering, filleting, peeling or shucking of
       seafood, or adding brine to seafood;

   (f) the pasteurisation or homogenisation of milk, or
       manufacturing of other dairy produce;

   (g) meat processing;

   (h) the processing of primary produce intended for
        consumption by animals where the animal, or any
        part or product of the animal, is intended for human
        consumption,

      but does not include a process (such as manufacturing or
      canning) in which the nature of the primary produce is
      substantially changed, and an activity which is carried on
      incidentally to the carrying on of a retail business and is
      prescribed;

   “public authority” means a body corporate established by a
      public Act for the purposes of a public function;

   “subdelegate” means a person to whom a delegate under
      section 29(2) further delegates the performance or exercise
      of any of the Agency’s functions or powers;

   “transfer date”, for the purposes of Part 8, is 1 April 2019.

                                    PART 2

                ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTIONS AND
                          POWERS OF AGENCY

Singapore Food Agency

 3. A body called the Singapore Food Agency is established by this
section.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.                  Act 2019                                  8

Agency is body corporate

4.—(1) The Agency —

(a) is a body corporate with perpetual succession;

(b) may acquire, hold and dispose of real and personal
     property; and

          (c) may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

 (2) The Agency may use, and operate under, one or more trading
names approved by the Minister.

 (3) A trading name can be an abbreviation or adaptation of the
Agency’s corporate name, or a name other than the Agency’s
corporate name.

 (4) The Agency must cause notice of every trading name approved
under subsection (2) to be published in the Gazette; but failure to do
so does not invalidate the approval or use of that name.

Functions of Agency

 5.—(1) The Agency has the following functions:

       (a) to support regulation of the production of primary produce
            and animal feed to ensure the safety and wholesomeness of
            food supply in Singapore;

       (b) to support regulation of the handling and supply of food to
            ensure that it is safe and suitable for human consumption
            and to promote public health;

       (c) to support assessing and otherwise requiring that food
            produced in or imported into Singapore complies with
            Singapore food standards so as to ensure that it is safe and
            suitable for human consumption;

       (d) to support regulation of the construction, hygiene and
            operating procedures of premises, vehicles and equipment
            used for the handling or supply of food;

       (e) to support regulation of businesses engaged in the handling
            or supply of food so as to minimise food safety risks and to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
   Singapore Food Agency

9  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

   ensure the provision of information relating to food to
   enable consumers to make informed choices;

   (f) to undertake or facilitate the education and training of
       persons engaged in the handling or supply of food to
       enable them to minimise food safety risks;

   (g) to support regulation of street hawking and trade fairs,
        whether or not engaged in the handling or supply of food;

   (h) to develop food education initiatives, including the
        publication of information to increase public awareness
        of food supply resilience, food safety, food standards and
        food labels;

   (i) to protect and conserve fisheries and to regulate the
       fisheries industry, including the use and control of fishing
       ports and harbours;

   (j) to promote and develop the food industry, including any
       enterprise based on or using agri-biotechnology,
       agrotechnology or food biotechnology;

   (k) to develop, manage and control the common property of
       the food processing facilities, food-distribution facilities
       and fishing ports in Singapore, and to provide and improve
       services or amenities to persons working in these facilities
       or ports to enhance the operations of businesses operating
       in them;

   (l) to advise the Government on matters relating to the food
       industry and to food, food safety and food supply, and on
       matters that may be included in food standards;

   (m) to represent the Government internationally on matters
        relating to fisheries, and to food, food businesses, food
        safety, food supply and on matters that may be included in
        food standards;

   (n) to collect, compile and analyse data about food, the food
        industry, food businesses, food safety, food supply and
        matters that may be included in food standards, and to

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  10

          publish the results of any such compilation and analysis or
          abstracts of those results;

(o) to accredit, or facilitate accreditation by others in
     Singapore of, persons in the food industry;

(p) to promote or undertake research into matters relating to
     food, the food industry, food businesses, food safety, food
     supply and on any matter which may be included in food
     standards;

(q) to cooperate and collaborate in particular with —

          (i) any public officer or other public authority or Health
              Officer in the administration of the Infectious
              Diseases Act 1976;

          (ii) the Health Sciences Authority in the administration
               of the Health Products Act 2007;

          (iii) the Director-General of Public Health in the
                administration of the Environmental Public Health
                Act 1987; and

          (iv) the National Parks Board in the discharge of its
               functions;

          (r) to perform such other functions as may be conferred on the
              Agency by any other Act.

 (2) In performing the functions conferred on the Agency by
subsection (1), the Agency is to have regard to —

(a) the protection of public health and safety;

(b) the resilience of the food supply chain for Singapore and
     the need to enhance the capacity of parties involved in the
     food supply chain to better prepare for and manage the
     impact of natural or man-made disasters, climate change
     and other adverse disruptions on food sources and supply;

          (c) the extent of consistency between food standards in
              Singapore with those used internationally, based on the
              best available scientific evidence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

11  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) the provision of adequate information relating to food to
         enable consumers to make informed choices and to prevent
         fraud and deception;

    (e) the promotion of fair trading in food; and

    (f) the promotion of trade and commerce in the food industry.

 (3) In addition to the functions conferred by this section, the
Agency may undertake such other functions as the Minister may
assign to the Agency, by notification in the Gazette, and in so
undertaking —

    (a) the Agency is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this
         Act; and

    (b) the provisions of this Act apply to the Agency in respect of
         those other functions and duties.

 (4) Nothing in this section imposes on the Agency, directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by proceedings
before any court to which the Agency would not otherwise be subject.

Powers of Agency

 6.—(1) The Agency has power to do all things necessary or
expedient to be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its
functions.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers of the Agency
include the following:

       (a) to enter into contracts, agreements or arrangements;

       (b) to acquire, develop, hold and dispose of real or personal
            property;

       (c) to appoint and act through agents;

       (d) to employ staff and engage consultants;

       (e) to publish or provide any information, or publish or
            sponsor the publication of works;

        (f) to apply for, obtain and hold, whether on its own behalf or
            jointly with any other person, any intellectual property
            rights;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  12

(g) to enter into agreements or arrangements for the
     commercial exploitation of those intellectual property
     rights, whether by assignment, licensing or otherwise;

(h) with the approval of the Minister, to form or join in the
     formation of a company, association, trust or partnership or
     enter into a joint venture with any person;

          (i) to be a member of a company, association, trust or
              partnership;

          (j) to provide financial incentives, support, grant, aid or
              assistance to any person;

          (k) to charge for the provision of goods or services, or the
              performance of work, by or on behalf of the Agency;

          (l) to waive the payment of fees and charges payable to the
              Agency;

(m) to accept gifts, grants, bequests and devises made to the
     Agency, and act as trustee of money and other property
     vested in the Agency on trust;

(n) to enter into agreements or arrangements with persons,
     authorities or organisations in Singapore or overseas with
     respect to the food industry, food safety, food supply and
     matters that may be included in food standards;

(o) to provide technical, consultancy or advisory services to
     the Government or any other person in Singapore or
     overseas on any matter related to, or connected with, the
     food industry, food safety, food supply and matters that
     may be included in food standards;

(p) to become a member or an affiliate of any international
     body whose functions, objects or duties relate to food, food
     safety or any matter that may be included in food
     standards;

(q) to participate in international, regional and bilateral
     negotiations on matters relating to the food industry,
     food safety, food supply and matters that may be included
     in food standards;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

13  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (r) to establish, manage and administer any accreditation,
        certification or inspection scheme or a register, for any
        purpose relating to any function of the Agency, including
        specifying, by notification in the Gazette, accreditation
        marks, certification marks or inspection marks of the
        Agency and controlling the use of those accreditation,
        certification or inspection marks;

    (s) to do any other thing that is incidental or conducive to the
        performance of its functions.

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not limit any other power
given to the Agency by any other provision in this Act or by any other
Act.

 (4) However, the Agency must not acquire shares or another
interest in an entity holding an accreditation under this Act.

 (5) The Agency may exercise its powers inside or outside
Singapore.

Directions of Minister, etc.
 7.—(1) The Minister may give to the Agency any direction under

section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.
 (2) To avoid doubt, the Minister is entitled —
       (a) to have information in the possession of the Agency; and

       (b) where the information is in or on a document, to have, and
            make and retain copies of, that document.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Minister may request the
Agency —

       (a) to provide information to the Minister; or

       (b) to give the Minister access to information.

 (4) The Agency must comply with a request under subsection (3).
 (5) In this section —

      “document” includes any tape, disc or other device or medium
         on which information is recorded or stored;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  14

“information” means information specified, or of a description
   specified, by the Minister that relates to the functions of the
   Agency.

Agency’s symbol, etc.

 8.—(1) The Agency has the exclusive right to the use of one or
more symbols or representations as the Agency may select or devise
(each called in this section the Agency’s symbol or representation),
and to display or exhibit those symbols or representations in
connection with the Agency’s activities or affairs.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) uses, without the prior written permission of the Agency, a
            symbol or representation identical with the Agency’s
            symbol or representation; or

       (b) uses a symbol or representation which so resembles the
            Agency’s symbol or representation as to deceive or cause
            confusion, or to be likely to deceive or to cause confusion,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                    PART 3
       CONSTITUTION AND MEMBERSHIP OF AGENCY

         Division 1 — Appointment, resignation and removal
Membership of Agency

 9.—(1) The Agency consists of at least 7 and not more than
14 members.

 (2) One of the members (who is not the Chairperson) may be the
Chief Executive.

Appointment of Agency members
 10.—(1) Each member of the Agency is to be appointed by the

Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

15  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Every appointment must be made by instrument in writing
given to the member.

 (3) The instrument must state —

    (a) the term of the appointment; and

    (b) the date the appointment takes effect, which must not be a
         date earlier than the date the instrument is received by the
         member.

Membership disqualification

 11.—(1) In appointing members of the Agency, the Minister must
have regard to whether the members of the Agency will collectively
possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and experience to assist the
Agency to perform its functions effectively.

 (2) However, the following individuals are disqualified from being
a member of the Agency:

       (a) an undischarged bankrupt or an individual who has an
            arrangement with any of his or her creditors;

       (b) a Judge or judicial officer;

       (c) an individual who has been sentenced to imprisonment for
            a term of 6 months or more, and has not received a free
            pardon;

       (d) an individual who is —

               (i) disqualified under section 154(1) of the Companies
                   Act 1967 from acting as a director, or taking part
                   (whether directly or indirectly) in the management,
                   of a company during the period of disqualification in
                   that section;

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

              (ii) disqualified from being a director or in any way,
                   whether directly or indirectly, being concerned in, or
                   from taking part in, the management of a company
                   by a court order under section 149(1), 149A(1) or
                   154(2) of the Companies Act 1967 during the period
                   of disqualification in the court order;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  16

               (iii) disqualified under section 58(1) of the Variable
                     Capital Companies Act 2018 from acting as a
                     director, or taking part (whether directly or
                     indirectly) in the management of a VCC during the
                     period of disqualification in that provision; or

                                                                                    [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

                (iv) disqualified by a court order under section 56(1),
                     57(1) or 58(2) of the Variable Capital Companies Act
                     2018 from being a director or in any way (whether
                     directly or indirectly) being concerned in, or taking
                     part in, the management of a VCC during the period
                     of disqualification in the court order;

                                                                                    [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

          (e) an individual who lacks capacity in respect of his or her
              duties as a member within the meaning of the Mental
              Capacity Act 2008, or in respect of whom an order is made
              under section 10 of the Mental Health (Care and
              Treatment) Act 2008.

 (3) In this section, “VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson

 12.—(1) The Minister may, by instrument in writing, appoint —

       (a) a member (other than the Chief Executive) to be the
            Chairperson of the Agency for such period as is specified
            in the instrument; and

       (b) one or more members (other than the Chairperson) to be a
            Deputy Chairperson of the Agency for such period as is
            specified in the instrument.

 (2) The Chairperson or a Deputy Chairperson holds office until
whichever of the following first happens:

       (a) his or her term of office as Chairperson or Deputy
            Chairperson (as the case may be) expires;

       (b) he or she ceases to hold office as a member of the Agency;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

17  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) the Minister terminates the appointment as Chairperson or
        Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

 (3) A Deputy Chairperson has and may exercise all of the functions
and powers of the Chairperson in relation to a matter if —

    (a) the Chairperson is unavailable; or

    (b) the Chairperson is interested in the matter (within the
         meaning given by Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
         Act 2018).

Premature vacancies

 13.—(1) If a premature vacancy occurs in the office of any member
of the Agency, the Minister may, subject to sections 9, 10 and 11,
appoint an individual to fill the vacancy and hold that office for the
remainder of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (2) In this section, “premature vacancy”, for an office, means a
vacancy that occurs in that office by virtue of section 20(1) or for any
reason other than the expiry of the term of office.

Acting Chairperson and members

 14.—(1) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily
as the Chairperson during any period, or during all periods, when the
Chairperson —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual to act temporarily as a
member of the Agency (other than the Chairperson) during any
period, or during all periods, when the member —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

 (3) An individual is ineligible for appointment under this section to
act as the Chairperson or a member of the Agency if the individual is
disqualified under section 11(2) for appointment as a member.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                   Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.           Act 2019                                         18

Removal of member

 15.—(1) The Minister may, at any time and without giving any
reason, remove a member of the Agency from office.

 (2) Every removal under subsection (1) must be made by written
notice given to the member with a copy to the Agency.

 (3) The notice must state the date the removal takes effect, which
must not be a date earlier than the date the notice is received by the
member.

Resignation from office

 16.—(1) A member of the Agency may resign his or her office by
written notice to the Minister (with a copy to the Agency) signed by
the member.

 (2) The resignation is effective when the notice in subsection (1) is
received by the Minister or at any later time specified in the notice.

Validity of acts, etc.

 17.—(1) Despite section 33 of the Interpretation Act 1965, the
exercise of any power or performance of any function of the Agency
by the Agency is not affected merely because at the relevant time —

       (a) there was a vacancy in the membership of the Agency,
            including a vacancy arising from the failure to appoint a
            member;

       (b) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Agency; or

       (c) there was an irregularity in the Agency’s decision-making
            procedure that does not affect the merits of the decision
            made.

 (2) The acts of an individual as a member of the Agency are not
affected merely because —

       (a) there was some defect or irregularity existing in the
            appointment or continuance in office of the individual
            purporting to be a member of the Agency; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

19  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of an individual acting in the capacity of the
         Chairperson, member or Chief Executive, the occasion for
         the individual so acting, or for his or her appointment, had
         not arisen or had ended.

           Division 2 — Terms and conditions for members

Term of appointment
 18.—(1) Subject to section 20, each member of the Agency holds

office for a period of 3 years or any shorter period specified in the
instrument of appointment.

 (2) A member of the Agency may be re-appointed.

Remuneration, etc.

 19. The members of the Agency may be paid, out of the funds of the
Agency, such salaries, fees and allowances as the Minister
determines.

Vacation of office
 20.—(1) A member of the Agency ceases to hold office if he or

she —

       (a) dies;

       (b) is adjudicated a bankrupt or makes an arrangement with
            any of his or her creditors;

       (c) becomes otherwise disqualified from being a member
            under section 11(2);

       (d) is removed from office in accordance with section 15;

       (e) resigns in accordance with section 16;

        (f) without reasonable cause, fails to disclose any interest
            required under Division 1 of Part 4 of the Public Sector
            (Governance) Act 2018 and a notice is given under that Act
            to the Minister about that default;

       (g) fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings of the Agency
            without the approval of the Agency; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  20

(h) is not re-appointed when his or her term of office expires.

 (2) A member of the Agency is not entitled to any compensation or
other payment or benefit relating to his or her ceasing, for any reason,
to hold office as a member.

                                    PART 4

                  DECISION-MAKING BY AGENCY
                           Division 1 — Meetings

Procedure generally

 21. Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the members of the Agency may regulate their own
proceedings and business.

Notice of meetings
 22.—(1) The Agency must hold such meetings as are necessary for

the performance of its functions.

 (2) The Chairperson must appoint the times and places of the
meetings of the Agency, and cause notice of those meetings to be
given to each member not present when the appointment is made.

 (3) The meetings of the Agency must be held in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and Part 4 of the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018.

Quorum
 23.—(1) The quorum is the number that is one-third the number of

members of the Agency.

 (2) No business may be transacted at a meeting of the Agency if a
quorum is not present.

Presiding at meetings
 24.—(1) At a meeting of the Agency, the following person

presides:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

21  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) if there is a Chairperson and he or she is present and is not
         interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the Public
         Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter — the
         Chairperson;

    (b) if there is no Chairperson, or the Chairperson is not present
         or is interested (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
         Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) in the matter, and a
         Deputy Chairperson who is not so interested in the matter
         is present — a Deputy Chairperson;

    (c) in any other case, the member of the Agency elected from
        among themselves to preside.

 (2) The Deputy Chairperson or member mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) or (c) may exercise all the powers and functions
of the Chairperson for the purposes of the meeting.

Voting at meetings

 25.—(1) Each member of the Agency has one vote.

 (2) In addition to his or her general vote, the member presiding at a
meeting has, in the case of an equality of votes, a casting vote.

 (3) A resolution of the Agency is passed if it is agreed by all
members present without dissent, or if a majority of the members who
are entitled to vote on the matter cast votes in favour of it.

 (4) A member present at a meeting of the Agency is presumed to
have agreed to, and to have voted in favour of, a resolution of the
Agency unless he or she expressly dissents from or votes against the
resolution at the meeting or is prevented from voting by section 26 of
the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

Execution of documents
 26.—(1) The Agency must have a seal.

 (2) The seal of the Agency is to be kept and used as authorised by
the Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  22

(3) A document is duly executed by the Agency if —

(a) the seal of the Agency is affixed to the document in the
     presence of one of its members who must sign the
     document to attest that the seal was so affixed, and the
     document is signed —

          (i) by any 2 members generally or specially authorised
              by the Agency for the purpose; or

          (ii) by one member and the Chief Executive; or

(b) the document is signed on behalf of the Agency by a person
     or persons authorised to do so by the Agency and in
     accordance with the terms of that authorisation.

 (4) A document purporting to be executed in accordance with this
section is presumed to be duly executed until the contrary is shown.

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially must take
judicial notice of the imprint of the seal of the Agency appearing on a
document.

 (6) When a document is produced bearing a seal purporting to be
the seal of the Agency, it must be presumed that the seal is the seal of
the Agency until the contrary is shown.

                Division 2 — Committees and delegation

Appointment of committees

 27.—(1) The Agency may, by resolution, appoint any number of
committees that the Agency thinks fit for purposes which, in the
opinion of the Agency, would be better regulated and managed by
means of those committees.

 (2) A committee appointed under this section may consist of any
number of individuals that the Agency thinks fit, and may include
individuals who are not members of the Agency.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), the Agency may appoint
committees —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

23  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) to advise the Agency on any matters relating to the
         Agency’s functions and powers that are referred to the
         committee by the Agency; or

    (b) to perform or exercise any of the Agency’s functions and
         powers that are delegated to the committee, if the
         committee includes at least one member of the Agency.

 (4) An individual may not be appointed as a member of a committee
unless, before appointment, he or she discloses to the Agency the
details of any interest (within the meaning given by Part 4 of the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018) the individual may have if he
or she were a member of that committee.

Proceedings of committees

 28.—(1) Section 17 applies to a committee, and to committee
members or individuals purporting to be committee members, with
the necessary modifications.

 (2) Subject to this Act, the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
and any restrictions by a resolution under section 29(1), a committee
may regulate its own proceedings and business.

Ability to delegate, etc.
 29.—(1) The Agency may delegate the performance or exercise of

any of its functions or powers, either generally or specially, to any of
the following persons by resolution and written notice to the person or
persons:

       (a) a member of the Agency;

       (b) the Chief Executive, any employee of the Agency or any
            other person performing duties in the Agency;

       (c) a committee;

       (d) a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the Agency;

       (e) a person engaged as a contractor by the Agency.

 (2) A delegation by the Agency under subsection (1) of the
performance or exercise of any of its functions or powers —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  24

(a) to a person in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) may authorise the
     delegate to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the
     function or power to another member, an appropriately
     qualified employee of the Agency or person performing
     duties in the Agency (called in this Act a subdelegate); or

(b) to a person in subsection (1)(d) or (e) may authorise the
     delegate to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the
     function or power to an appropriately qualified employee
     of that delegate (also called in this Act a subdelegate),

but subject to the same restrictions, and with the same effect, as if the
subdelegate were the delegate.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any power under this Act
or any other Act administered by the Agency that is declared by that
Act to be non-delegable.

 (4) A delegation or subdelegation in accordance with this Act is not
affected by any change in the membership of the Agency or of any
committee or by any change in the Chief Executive or employee.

 (5) In this section —

(a) a reference to a wholly-owned subsidiary company of the
     Agency includes a company limited by guarantee the sole
     member of which is the Agency; and

(b) a reference to a person performing duties in the Agency
     includes a person performing duties in the Agency under a
     contract, or under an arrangement making available
     temporarily to the Agency the services of public officers
     (or secondment).

Power of delegate, etc.

 30.—(1) A delegate (or subdelegate) who purports to perform a
function or exercise a power under delegation (or subdelegation) —

       (a) is taken to be in accordance with the terms of a delegation
            (or subdelegation) under section 29, unless the contrary is
            shown; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

25  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) must produce evidence of his or her authority to do so, if
         reasonably requested to do so.

 (2) A subdelegate to whom a function or power of the Agency is
subdelegated under section 29(2) is not authorised to further delegate
that power or function to anyone else.

                                    PART 5

                         PERSONNEL MATTERS

Appointment of Chief Executive

 31.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Agency, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

 (2) The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

Officers, etc.

 32. The Agency may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as the
Agency may determine, such other officers, employees, consultants
and agents as may be necessary for the effective performance of its
functions.

Public servants

 33. Without affecting sections 20 and 21 of the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, every delegate and subdelegate of the
Agency —

       (a) is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
            Code 1871; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  26

(b) is, in relation to his or her administration, assessment,
     collection and enforcement of payment of —

          (i) any financial penalty imposed under any written law
              administered by the Agency; or

          (ii) any composition sum collected under this Act or any
               other written law administered by the Agency,

          taken to be public officers for the purposes of the Financial
          Procedure Act 1966; and section 20 of that Act applies to
          each of these persons even though they are not or were not
          in the employment of the Government.

Preservation of secrecy

 34.—(1) A member of the Agency, an employee, a delegate or
subdelegate of the Agency, the Chief Executive or a committee
member, who has information in his or her capacity as such that
would not otherwise be available to him or her, must not disclose that
information to any person except —

       (a) in the performance of the Agency’s functions;

       (b) with the prior authorisation from the Agency to do so;

       (c) for the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under
            this Act, or any report of those proceedings;

       (d) as required by an order of court;

       (e) in complying with the requirements in this Act for
            members to disclose interests; or

        (f) as required of or allowed by the Agency, the Chief
            Executive, the member, employee, delegate or subdelegate
            of the Agency or the committee member, by or under this
            Act or any other Act.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

27  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

Protection from personal liability

 35. No liability shall lie against any member, any committee
member, the Chief Executive or any employee, delegate or
subdelegate of the Agency or any other person acting under the
direction of the Agency, for anything which is done or purported to be
done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with reasonable care
in —

    (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
         Act; or

    (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
         under this Act.

                                    PART 6

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year

 36. The financial year of the Agency begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Revenue and property of Agency
 37. The funds and property of the Agency include —

       (a) all moneys paid to the Agency by way of grants, subsidies,
            donations, gifts and contributions for the purposes of the
            Agency;

       (b) all moneys paid to, and all other moneys and property
            lawfully received by, the Agency for the purposes of the
            Agency;

       (c) all fees and charges payable to the Agency under this Act
            or any other Act administered by the Agency;

       (d) all moneys, dividends, royalties, interest or income
            received from any transaction made pursuant to the
            powers of the Agency under this Act or any other Act
            administered by the Agency;

       (e) all moneys borrowed by the Agency under this Act; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  28

          (f) all accumulations of income derived from any property or
              money mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (e).

Bank accounts

 38.—(1) The Agency must open and maintain one or more accounts
with such bank or banks as the Agency thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account may only be operated by a person who is
authorised to do so by the Agency.

Financial accounts and records

 39. The Agency must —

       (a) keep proper accounts and records of its transactions and
            affairs; and

       (b) do all things necessary to ensure that —

               (i) all payments out of its moneys are correctly made
                   and properly authorised; and

              (ii) adequate control is maintained over the property and
                   assets of, or in the custody of, the Agency and over
                   the expenditure incurred by the Agency.

Power of investment

 40. The Agency may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

Issue of shares, etc.

 41. As a consequence of —

       (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities in the
            Agency under this Act; or

       (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
            Government in the Agency in accordance with any other
            written law,

the Agency must issue such shares or other securities to the Minister
for Finance as that Minister may direct.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                 Singapore Food Agency

29               Act 2019                                     2020 Ed.

Borrowing power

 42.—(1) The Agency cannot raise loans for the performance of its
functions under this Act or any other Act administered by the Agency
except in accordance with this section.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Agency may raise loans by —

    (a) mortgage, overdraft or other means, with or without
         security;

    (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
         in the Agency or on any other revenue receivable by the
         Agency under this Act or any other written law; or

      (c) the creation and issue of debentures, bonds or any other
           instrument as the Minister may approve.

(3) The Agency may raise loans —

    (a) from the Government; or

    (b) with the approval of the Minister, from another source,
         whether within or outside Singapore.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement under which
credit facilities are granted to the Agency for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

                                    PART 7

                                  GENERAL

Improper use of accreditation, certification or inspection mark

 43.—(1) A person must not use any accreditation, certification or
inspection mark, or a colourable imitation of any accreditation,
certification or inspection mark, in respect of any product or process
or in any trade mark or design, unless the person —

       (a) holds a valid accreditation or certification authorising the
            person to use that accreditation, certification or inspection
            mark in respect of that product or process or in that trade
            mark or design; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  30

(b) is authorised by the Agency to use that accreditation,
     certification or inspection mark.

 (2) A person must not use any report or certificate issued or
purportedly issued by or on behalf of the Agency to convey the
impression that the person holds a valid accreditation, certification or
inspection mark, when in fact the person does not.

 (3) A person must not forge or without lawful authority alter an
accreditation, certification or inspection mark, or a report or
certificate issued by the Agency.

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (5) Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has power to impose the full penalty or
punishment prescribed under subsection (4).

 (6) A court trying an offence under subsection (1), (2) or (3) may
direct that any property in respect of which the offence has been
committed be forfeited to the Government.

Composition of offences

 44.—(1) The Chief Executive, or an employee of the Agency
authorised in writing by the Agency, may compound any offence
under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $2,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                  Singapore Food Agency

31                        Act 2019                            2020 Ed.

Offences by corporations

 45.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

    (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
         that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
         apparent authority; and

    (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the corporation; or

    (ii) an individual who is involved in the management of
         the corporation and in a position to influence the
         conduct of the corporation in relation to the
         commission of the offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  32

offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
        meaning of section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
        Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

        (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
             members, any of those members as if the member
             were a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 46.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                  Singapore Food Agency

33                Act 2019                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
        member of its governing body;

    (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

    (iii) an individual who is involved in the management of
          the unincorporated association or partnership and in
          a position to influence the conduct of the
          unincorporated association or partnership (as the
          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  34

it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
        a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
        member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
        and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

Service of documents

 47.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

35  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

    (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
         specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
         if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
         address or business address;

    (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
        adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
        business address with an adult apparently employed there;

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;

    (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
        person giving or serving the document as the fax number
        for the service of documents on the individual; or

    (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
        address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
         partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to the body corporate’s secretary or other
         similar officer, or the limited liability partnership’s
         manager;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  36

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s registered office or principal office
     in Singapore;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s registered office or principal office in
              Singapore; or

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s last email
     address.

(5) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent; and

          (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
              after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
              undelivered).

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior consent to service
in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —
    “business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

        (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
             liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
             last known place of business in Singapore;

“document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
   by this Act to be served;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

37  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    “last email address” means —

    (a) the last email address given by the addressee
         concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of
         documents under this Act; or

    (b) the last email address of the addressee concerned
         known to the person giving or serving the document;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 48. The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing matters required or permitted by this Act to be
prescribed, or necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.

                                    PART 8

          TRANSFER OF UNDERTAKINGS TO AGENCY

Interpretation of this Part

 49. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority” or “AVA” means the
         Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority established by section 3
         of the repealed Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority Act
         (Cap. 5, 2012 Revised Edition);

      “asset”, in relation to a transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of,
         an instrument or otherwise and whether actual or contingent)
         of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date and includes,
         without limitation, any —

              (a) legal or equitable interest in real or personal property,
                   whether situated in Singapore or elsewhere;

              (b) chose in action;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                      Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.                    Act 2019                                38

          (c) money or securities;

          (d) plant and equipment, whether situated in Singapore
               or elsewhere;

          (e) intellectual property;

          (f) infrastructure, whether situated in Singapore or
              elsewhere;

          (g) records; and

          (h) right;

“Health Sciences Authority” or “HSA” means the Health
   Sciences Authority established by section 3 of the Health
   Sciences Authority Act 2001;

“liability”, in relation to a transferor, means any liability, duty or
   obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
   unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly or jointly
   and severally with any other person) of the transferor on the
   eve of the transfer date;

“National Environment Agency” or “NEA” means the National
   Environment Agency established by section 3 of the National
   Environment Agency Act 2002;

“records”, in relation to a transferor, means registers, papers,
   documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and other
   records, however compiled, recorded or stored, of that
   transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

“right”, in relation to a transferor, means any right, power,
   privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
   transfer date;

“transferable AVA undertaking” means the following
   departments of the AVA:

          (a) the Communications and Service Quality Group;

          (b) the Compliance Management Group;

          (c) the Corporate Development Group;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

39  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) the Food Infrastructure Development and
         Management Group;

    (e) the Food Regulatory Management Group;

    (f) the Food Supply Resilience Group;

    (g) the Industry Development and Partnership Group;

    (h) the International Relations Group;

    (i) the Licensing and Permits Group;

    (j) the National Centre for Food Science;

    (k) the office of the Chief Executive of the AVA and the
        internal audit unit;

    (l) the Planning and Organisation Group;

    (m) the Research Planning and Systems Integration
         Group;

            (n) the Urban Food Solutions Group;
    “transferor” means one of the following, as the case may be:

    (a) the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority;

    (b) the Health Sciences Authority;

            (c) the National Environment Agency;

    “transferring AVA employee” means an employee of the
       Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority who, on the eve of the
       transfer date, is in any department of the Agri-Food and
       Veterinary Authority comprised in the transferable AVA
       undertaking;

    “transferring HSA employee” means an employee of the Health
       Sciences Authority who, on the eve of the transfer date, is in
       the Food Safety Division of the Health Sciences Authority;

    “transferring NEA employee” means an employee of the
       National Environment Agency who, on the eve of the
       transfer date, is in the Food and Environmental Hygiene
       Department of the National Environment Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  40

Transfer of undertakings to Agency

 50.—(1) On the transfer date, the following assets and liabilities are
transferred to the Agency:

(a) all assets and liabilities of the Agri-Food and Veterinary
     Authority that relate solely to the functions of any
     department comprised in the transferable AVA
     undertaking;

(b) all assets and liabilities of the National Environment
     Agency that relate solely to the functions of the Food and
     Environmental Hygiene Department of the National
     Environment Agency;

          (c) all assets and liabilities of the Health Sciences Authority
              that relate solely to the functions of the Food Safety
              Division of the Health Sciences Authority.

 (2) When any assets or liabilities are transferred under
subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

(a) the assets of the transferor that are the subject of the
     transfer vest in the Agency by virtue of this section and
     without the need for any further conveyance, transfer,
     assignment or assurance;

(b) the liabilities of the transferor that are the subject of the
     transfer become by virtue of this section the liabilities of
     the Agency;

          (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to those assets or
              liabilities that are started before the transfer date by or
              against the transferor or a predecessor of the transferor and
              pending immediately before that date are taken to be
              proceedings pending by or against the Agency;

(d) any legal or other proceedings relating to those assets or
     liabilities which could have been started immediately
     before the transfer date by or against the transferor or a
     predecessor of the transferor may be started by or against
     the Agency;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                     Singapore Food Agency

41                   Act 2019                                 2020 Ed.

    (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
        before the transfer date by or against the transferor or a
        predecessor of the transferor relating to those assets or
        liabilities may be enforced by or against the Agency;

    (f) any document relating to legal or other proceedings
        relating to those assets or liabilities that has been served
        on or by a transferor or a predecessor of the transferor
        before the transfer date is taken, where appropriate, to have
        been served on or by the Agency;

    (g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
         the transfer date in relation to those assets or liabilities by,
         to or in respect of the transferor or a predecessor of the
         transferor is (to the extent to which that act, matter or thing
         has any force or effect) taken to have been done or omitted
         by, to or in respect of the Agency;

    (h) a reference in any written law, in any instrument made
         under any Act, in any contract, agreement, arrangement or
         undertaking, or in any document of any kind to the
         transferor or a predecessor of the transferor, to the extent to
         which the reference relates to those assets or liabilities, is
         taken to be, or includes, a reference to the Agency.

(3) In particular —

    (a) all security deposits deposited with the transferor in
         relation to any asset or liability transferred under
         subsection (1) and not forfeited before the transfer date;
         and

    (b) the benefits of all indemnities, guarantees or warranties
         given to the transferor in relation to any asset or liability
         transferred under subsection (1) and not discharged before
         that date,

are, without further assurance, transferred and deemed deposited with
or given to the Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  42

(4) The operation of this section does not —

(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, an Act or other law,
     or otherwise a civil wrong or criminal wrong;

(b) constitute a breach of duty of confidence (whether arising
     by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other way);

          (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
              prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
              transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
              information;

(d) terminate an agreement or obligation or fulfil any
     condition that allows a person to terminate any
     agreement or obligation, or gives rise to any right or
     remedy in respect of any agreement or obligation;

          (e) cause any contract or other instrument to be void or
              otherwise unenforceable;

          (f) frustrate any contract;

(g) release a surety or other obligor or obligee wholly or in part
     from an obligation; or

(h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
     contract or other instrument.

 (5) No attornment to the Agency by a lessee from a transferor is
required for the purpose of this section.

Transferring secondments and employees to Agency

 51.—(1) On the transfer date, every transferring AVA employee —

       (a) stops being an employee of the Agri-Food and Veterinary
            Authority; and

       (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
            employee, of the Agency on terms no less favourable
            than those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the
            transfer date.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

43  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

(2) On the transfer date, every transferring NEA employee —

    (a) stops being an employee of the National Environment
         Agency; and

    (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
         employee, of the Agency on terms no less favourable
         than those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the
         transfer date.

(3) On the transfer date, every transferring HSA employee —

    (a) stops being an employee of the Health Sciences Authority;
         and

    (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
         employee, of the Agency on terms no less favourable
         than those enjoyed by the employee on the eve of the
         transfer date.

 (4) The transfer under subsection (1), (2) or (3) of a transferring
AVA employee, a transferring NEA employee or a transferring HSA
employee (as the case may be) to the Agency —

    (a) does not interrupt continuity of service;

    (b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy; and

    (c) does not entitle any employee so transferred to any
        payment or other benefit merely because he or she stops
        being employed by the Agri-Food and Veterinary
        Authority, the National Environment Agency or the
        Health Sciences Authority, as the case may be.

 (5) A certificate purporting to be signed by the Minister certifying
that an individual named in the certificate was, with effect from the
transfer date, employed by virtue of this section by the Agency, is
admissible in evidence in any proceedings as evidence of the matters
stated in it.

(6) Nothing in this section prevents —

    (a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
         individual transferred under this section from being altered

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  44

          by or under any law, award or agreement with effect from
          any time after the transfer date; or

(b) an individual transferred under this section from resigning
     from the Agency at any time after the transfer date, in
     accordance with the terms and conditions of his or her
     employment then applicable.

 (7) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any transferring AVA
employee, transferring NEA employee or transferring HSA employee
to the Agency.

 (8) On the transfer date, every public officer or employee of any
other public authority whose services are made available (or is
seconded) to the departments of the Agri-Food and Veterinary
Authority or the National Environment Agency mentioned in
section 50(1) (as the case may be) under an agreement or
arrangement that —

(a) is between the Government or that other public authority
     and the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority or the
     National Environment Agency, as the case may be; and

(b) is in force on the eve of the transfer date,

continues on secondment to the Agency.

General preservation of employment terms

 52.—(1) The service with the Agency of an employee transferred
under section 51 (called in this section a transferred employee) must
be regarded for all purposes as having been continuous with the
service of the employee with the transferor concerned immediately
before the transfer date.

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if
            employment with the Agency were a continuation of
            employment with the transferor;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

45  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
         employee’s accrued rights to leave and superannuation
         become the liabilities of the Agency; and

    (c) a reference to a transferor in the contract of employment
        that had effect in relation to the transferred employee
        immediately before the transfer date is taken to be, or
        includes, a reference to the Agency.

 (3) For any conduct of the transferred employee when he or she was
employed by the relevant transferor which would have rendered the
employee liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired,
dismissed or punished by the transferor, the Agency may —

    (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against the employee;

    (b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
         by the transferor against the transferred employee if those
         proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

    (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
        punish a transferred employee, as if the employee were not
        transferred.

 (4) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of a transferred employee during his or her employment with
the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority, the National Environment
Agency or the Health Sciences Authority, as the case may be —

    (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
         committee of the relevant transferor acting under due
         authority; or

    (b) had been heard or investigated by a committee of the
         relevant transferor acting under due authority but no order,
         ruling or direction had been made,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before the transfer date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Agency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  46

 (5) Until such time as conditions of employment are drawn up by
the Agency for a transferred employee, every transferred employee is
to be regarded as being employed by the Agency on the same
conditions of his or her employment with the relevant transferor on
the eve of the transfer date.

 (6) Any term or condition of employment drawn up by the Agency
for a transferred employee must recognise the length of service of the
transferred employee while in the employment of a transferor
(including any previous service of the employee taken to be
service with the transferor) to be service with the Agency.

 (7) However, the Agency must not draw up any term or condition of
employment that adversely affects the conditions that would have
been applicable to any transferred employee as regards any pension
or gratuity payable under the Pensions Act 1956.

 (8) Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, a transferred
employee who is transferred to the service of the Agency is not
entitled to claim any benefit under that Act on the ground that he or
she has been retired from the public service on account of abolition or
reorganisation of office in consequence of the establishment of the
Agency.

 (9) Nothing in section 51(8) —

(a) breaks the continuity of service of the public officer or
     employee of another public authority whose secondment
     continues with the Agency because of that provision; or

(b) affects any rights, powers or immunities that such a public
     officer or employee of a public authority has, or the extent
     to which such a public officer or employee (as the case may
     be) is subject to obligations or liabilities in relation to
     discipline, by virtue of holding the office or position to
     which the officer or employee is seconded.

Transfer of records

 53. On the transfer date, the following records become the record of
the Agency:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

47  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) every record, or part of any record, of the Agri-Food and
         Veterinary Authority that relates to —

    (i) any asset or liability transferred to the Agency under
        section 50; or

    (ii) any transferring AVA employee;

    (b) every record, or part of any record, of the National
         Environment Agency that relates to —

    (i) any asset or liability transferred to the Agency under
        section 50; or

    (ii) any transferring NEA employee;

    (c) every record, or part of any record, of the Health Sciences
        Authority that relates to —

    (i) any asset or liability transferred to the Agency under
        section 50; or

    (ii) any transferring HSA employee.

Confirmation of transfers

 54.—(1) If any dispute arises —

       (a) as to whether an asset or a liability or a record is transferred
            under section 50 or 53; or

       (b) as to whether any, or any part of any, contract or document
            relates to an asset or a liability or a record transferred under
            section 50 or 53,

the Minister for Finance may determine the matter and is to provide
the concerned parties with written notice of that determination.

 (2) The determination of the Minister for Finance under
subsection (1) is final and binding on the transferor concerned and
the Agency.

 55. to 66. [Omitted as having had effect]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  48

          PART 9

          SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Transitional arrangements for AVA financial statements, etc.

 67. The last members and the last Chief Executive of the Agri-Food
and Veterinary Authority remain responsible —

(a) for the preparation and submission of the financial
     statements in respect of the financial year (or part
     thereof) before the dissolution of the Agri-Food and
     Veterinary Authority, to the last appointed auditor of that
     Authority;

(b) to send, as soon as those accounts and financial statements
     have been audited in accordance with the provisions of the
     Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018, to the Minister last
     charged with the responsibility for the Agri-Food and
     Veterinary Authority a copy of the audited financial
     statements, signed by the last Chairman and last Chief
     Executive of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority; and

          (c) to cause to be prepared and transmitted to the Minister last
              charged with the responsibility for the Agri-Food and
              Veterinary Authority, a report dealing generally with the
              activities of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority
              during that financial year (or part thereof) containing
              such information relating to the proceedings and policy of
              the Authority as that Minister may direct.

Saving and transitional provisions for amendments to
Environmental Public Health Act 1987

 68.—(1) Every licence, permit, approval or authorisation that —

       (a) is granted, before 1 April 2019, under Part 4 or 9 of the
            Environmental Public Health Act 1987, by the
            Director-General of Public Health; and

       (b) is in force on that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 as amended by this Act, to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
             Singapore Food Agency

49           Act 2019                                         2020 Ed.

continue as if, and is deemed to be, a licence, permit, approval or
authorisation granted by the Director-General, Food Administration
under Part 4 or 9 (as the case may be) of the Environmental Public
Health Act 1987 as amended by this Act.

 (2) However, every licence, permit, approval or authorisation
mentioned in subsection (1) lapses on the date it would have if the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 had not been amended by this
Act, unless the licence, permit, approval or authorisation is earlier
revoked or cancelled.

(3) Where —

    (a) an application or other document is lodged for approval
         under Part 4 or 9 of the Environmental Public Health
         Act 1987 before 1 April 2019; and

    (b) the application or other document was not approved by the
         Director-General of Public Health before that date,

the application or other document is, where applicable, deemed to be
an application or a document lodged for approval with the
Director-General, Food Administration under the corresponding
provisions in Part 4 or 9 of the Environmental Public Health
Act 1987 as amended by this Act.

 (4) Anything that has been started by the Director-General of Public
Health in connection with an application or a document under
subsection (3) may be carried on and completed by the
Director-General, Food Administration under the corresponding
provisions in Part 4 or 9 of the Environmental Public Health
Act 1987 as amended by this Act.

 (5) Every direction, notice, order or requirement affecting matters
regulated under Part 4 or 9 of the Environmental Public Health
Act 1987 that —

    (a) is issued or given, before 1 April 2019, by the
         Director-General of Public Health under the
         Environmental Public Health Act 1987; and

    (b) is in force immediately before that date,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  50

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 as amended by this Act, to
continue as if the Director-General, Food Administration issued or
gave the direction, notice, order or requirement under the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 as amended by this Act.

 (6) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister responsible for
environmental public health —

(a) under section 84 of the Environmental Public Health
     Act 1987 before 1 April 2019 against any notice, order or
     decision of the Director-General of Public Health made
     under Part 4 or 9 of that Act; and

(b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of
     immediately before that date,

the appeal may continue to be dealt with in accordance with
section 84 of the Environmental Public Health Act 1987 as if this Act
had not been enacted.

 (7) All subsidiary legislation made under Part 4 or 9 of the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 and in force immediately
before 1 April 2019 continues in force as if made under the
Environmental Public Health Act 1987 as amended by this Act until
the subsidiary legislation is revoked under that Act as amended by
this Act.

Saving and transitional provisions for amendments to various
Acts

 69.—(1) Every licence, permit, approval or authorisation that —

       (a) is granted, before 1 April 2019 under the Feeding Stuffs
            Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966, the Sale of Food
            Act 1973 or the Wholesome Meat and Fish Act 1999 (as
            the case may be) by the Director-General, Agri-Food and
            Veterinary Services appointed under section 3(1) of the
            Animals and Birds Act 1965; and

       (b) is in force on that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Feeding
Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966, the Sale of Food Act 1973 or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
             Singapore Food Agency

51           Act 2019                                         2020 Ed.

the Wholesome Meat and Fish Act 1999 (as the case may be) as
amended by this Act, to continue as if, and is deemed to be, a licence,
permit, approval or authorisation granted by the Director-General,
Food Administration under that Act as amended by this Act.

 (2) However, every licence, permit, approval or authorisation
mentioned in subsection (1) lapses on the date it would have if the
Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966, the Sale of Food
Act 1973 or the Wholesome Meat and Fish Act 1999 (as the case may
be) had not been amended by this Act, unless the licence, permit,
approval or authorisation is earlier revoked or cancelled.

(3) Where —

    (a) an application or other document is lodged for approval
         under the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966,
         the Sale of Food Act 1973 or the Wholesome Meat and
         Fish Act 1999, before 1 April 2019, as the case may be; and

    (b) the application or other document was not approved by the
         Director-General, Agri-Food and Veterinary Services
         before that date,

the application or other document is, where applicable, deemed to be
an application or a document lodged for approval with the
Director-General, Food Administration under the corresponding
provisions in the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966,
the Sale of Food Act 1973 or the Wholesome Meat and Fish Act 1999
(as the case may be) as amended by this Act.

 (4) Anything that has been started by the Director-General,
Agri-Food and Veterinary Services in connection with an
application or a document under subsection (3) may be carried on
and completed by the Director-General, Food Administration under
the corresponding provisions in the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the
Fisheries Act 1966, the Sale of Food Act 1973 or the Wholesome
Meat and Fish Act 1999 as amended by this Act, whichever being
applicable.

(5) Every direction, notice, order or requirement that —

    (a) is issued or given, before 1 April 2019 by the
         Director-General, Agri-Food and Veterinary Services

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
          Singapore Food Agency

2020 Ed.  Act 2019                                                  52

          under the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966,
          the Sale of Food Act 1973 and the Wholesome Meat and
          Fish Act 1999, respectively; and

(b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of those Acts as
amended by this Act, to continue as if the Director-General, Food
Administration issued or gave the direction, notice, order or
requirement under the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries
Act 1966, the Sale of Food Act 1973 or the Wholesome Meat and
Fish Act 1999 (as the case may be) as amended by this Act.

 (6) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister responsible for
animal health and welfare —

(a) under the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965, the Fisheries Act 1966,
     the Sale of Food Act 1973 or the Wholesome Meat and
     Fish Act 1999 (as the case may be) before 1 April 2019
     against any notice, order or decision of the
     Director-General, Agri-Food and Veterinary Services
     made under any of those Acts; and

(b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of
     immediately before that date,

the appeal may continue to be dealt with by that Minister in
accordance with those Acts as if this Act had not been enacted.

(7) Every direction, notice, order or requirement that —

(a) is issued or given, before 1 April 2019 by the Agri-Food
     and Veterinary Authority under Part 2A of the Sale of Food
     Act 1973; and

(b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Sale of
Food Act 1973 as amended by this Act, to continue as if the
Director-General, Food Administration issued or gave the direction,
notice, order or requirement under the Sale of Food Act 1973 as
amended by this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
    Singapore Food Agency

53  Act 2019                                                  2020 Ed.

Saving for amendments to Sale of Food Act 1973

 70. Section 30(3) and (4) of the Sale of Food Act 1973 continues to
apply to and in relation to the following as if section 64(1)(n) had not
been enacted:

    (a) any food or any food contact article which was purchased
         or procured from any person (for test purposes) before
         1 April 2019;

    (b) any offence under the Sale of Food Act 1973 committed
         before 1 April 2019.

Saving and transitional regulations

 71.—(1) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of
any provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe
such additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature
consequent on the enactment of that provision as the Minister may
consider necessary or expedient.

 (2) Nothing in this Part affects section 16 of the Interpretation
Act 1965.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
                            ACT 2019

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 11 of 2019 — Singapore Food Agency Act 2019

Bill           : 5/2019

First Reading  : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement   : 1 April 2019 (except sections 55, 56
                     and 63)
                     2 April 2019 (section 55)
                     1 June 2019 (section 56)
                     1 September 2019 (section 63)

2. 2020 Revised Edition — Singapore Food Agency
                                    Act 2019

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                 Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement   : 13 January 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
   COMPARATIVE TABLE

SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
             ACT 2019

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                     Act 11 of 2019
—                               PART 9
[Omitted as having had effect]  55
[Omitted as having had effect]  56
[Omitted as having had effect]  57—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]  58
[Omitted as having had effect]  59
[Omitted as having had effect]  60
[Omitted as having had effect]  61
[Omitted as having had effect]  62
[Omitted as having had effect]  63
[Omitted as having had effect]  64—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]  65
[Omitted as having had effect]  66—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
PART 9                             (5)
                                   (6)
                                   (7)
                                PART 10

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 13/1/2022
