THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                   SALE OF FOOD ACT 1973

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

          Sale of Food Act 1973

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
          General interpretation
     1.   Meaning of “food”
     2.   Meaning of “food business”
     2A.  Meaning of unsafe food
     2B.  Meaning of unsuitable food
     2C.  Meaning of “sell”
     2D.  Meaning of “non-retail food business”
     2E.
     2F.

                                        PART 2

                 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

 3. Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officers,
         etc.

 4. Power of authorised officers to enter, etc.
 5. Power to call for information
 6. Power to demand and select and take or obtain samples
 7. Power to demand samples of milk or food in course of delivery

         under contract
 8. Any person may have sample analysed
 9. [Repealed]
10. Certificate of authorised analyst

                                       PART 2A
                          FOOD SAFETY MEASURES

                         Division 1 — General provisions
10A. Persons to whom directions may be given
10B. Content and effect of directions
10C. Service of directions under this Part

          1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                        2

          Division 2 — Directions

Section   General corrective action direction
          Direction to impose movement controls
   10D.   Direction to recall food or food contact article
   10E.   Direction to manage food or food contact article
   10F.   Direction to publish statement
   10G.
   10H.

          Division 3 — Supplementary provisions

10I.      Compensation
10J.      Appeal to Minister
10K.      Non-compliance with food safety measures
10L.      Interface with other written laws

          PART 3

          SALE OF FOOD

11.       Adulterated food
12.       Food containing prohibited substance
13.       Food containing substance in excess of permitted proportion
14.       Food containing alcohol, etc.
15.       Selling unsafe or unsuitable food
16.       Offences concerning labelling
16A.      Offences involving non-compliant advertising
17.       False labelling, etc.
18.       Sale of food not of the quality, etc., demanded
19.       Sale of food prepared under insanitary conditions
20.       Offences under this Part

                                        PART 4

                        NON-RETAIL FOOD BUSINESS

21. Non-retail food business must be licensed
22. Persons with infectious disease not to carry on business
23. Cleanliness of vehicles, equipment, etc.
24. Offences under this Part, powers of arrest and notice to attend

         court

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
3        Sale of Food Act 1973                                        2020 Ed.

         PART 5

         PRESUMPTIONS OF LAW

Section  Adulteration
         Liability of importer, packer or manufacturer
   25.   Sale by agent or employee
   26.   Presumptions as to sale for human consumption
   27.
   28.

                                           PART 6

                                LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   29. Jurisdiction of court
   30. Proceedings for offences
   31. No defence that purchaser bought for analysis
   32. No defence that offence not wilfully committed
   33. Reliance on written warranty a good defence
   34. Authorised analyst’s certificate to be prima facie evidence
   35. [Repealed]
   36. Non-disclosure of information
   37. Recovery of fees and other expenses incidental to prosecution
   38. Fees, etc., payable to Agency
   39. Appeal

                                           PART 7

                          SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

   40. Sale of prohibited food contact article
   41. Obstruction of authorised officers and interference with official

            marks
   42. Forfeiture of food or food contact article upon conviction
   43. Notification of conviction
   44. Service of summons, notice, etc.
   45. Appeal to Minister against notice, order or decision
   46. Licences
   47. Notices, receipts, etc., may be given by authorised officer
   48. Police officers and authorised officers may demand names and

            addresses in certain cases
   49. General penalties
   50. Composition of offences
   51. Inaccuracies in documents
   52. Evidence

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973              4

Section   Forms
          Exemption from Act
   53.    Administrative exemption from Act
   54.    Regulations
   55.
   56.

An Act for regulating food to ensure that food for sale is safe and
  suitable for human consumption and to promote public health, for
  ensuring the provision of information relating to food to enable
  consumers to make informed choices and for preventing misleading
  conduct in connection with the sale of food.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

                                                                  [1 May 1973]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Sale of Food Act 1973.

General interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “advertisement” means any of the following where used or
         apparently used to promote, directly or indirectly, the sale of
         food:
              (a) any words, whether written or in an audible message;
              (b) any still or moving picture, sign, symbol or other
                   visual image or representation;
              (c) any combination of 2 or more of those things in
                   paragraph (a) or (b),
         but does not include communications of personal opinion
         made by an individual (for no commercial gain) to the public
         or a section of the public in relation to any goods or services,
         brand of goods or services, or person who provides goods or
         services;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
5  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

   “Agency” means the Singapore Food Agency established by the
      Singapore Food Agency Act 2019;

   “analysis” includes micro-biological assay, and “analyse” is to
      be construed accordingly;

   “authorised analyst” means any person appointed by the
      Director‑General to be an authorised analyst under
      section 3(3);

   “authorised officer” means the Director‑General and any person
      appointed by the Director‑General to be an authorised officer
      under section 3(2);

   “Director‑General” means the Director‑General, Food
      Administration appointed under section 3(1);

   “fish” means any species of fish (whether marine or freshwater),
      and includes —

   (a) crustacea, shellfish, echinoderm and molluscs; and

   (b) the eggs and young of any fish;

   “fish product” means any of the following intended for human
      consumption:

   (a) part of any fish;

   (b) any product derived from processing or preserving
        fish;

   (c) any product containing fish;

   “food” has the meaning given by section 2A;

   “food business” has the meaning given by section 2B;

   “food contact article” means the whole or any part of any utensil,
      machinery, instrument, device, apparatus, container,
      appliance or article that is used, or that is designed or
      intended for use, in or in connection with the handling of
      food, but does not include any pipe, water fitting, apparatus
      or appliance used for the supply of water by the Public
      Utilities Board;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    6

“food premises” means any premises at, on or from which food
   is sold, or handled with the intention that it be sold, and
   includes —

          (a) a food vending machine; or

          (b) any premises used for a primary food production
               business,

          but does not include any description of premises declared by
          the Minister by order in the Gazette not to be a food premises;

“food regulation” means any regulation made under section 56;

“handling”, in relation to food for sale, includes any one or more
   of the following:

          (a) making or manufacturing the food;

          (b) processing or preserving the food;

          (c) cooking, defrosting, heating or preparing the food;

          (d) storing, packing or labelling the food;

          (e) transporting or delivering the food;

          (f) displaying the food;

          (g) serving the food,

          but does not include primary food production;

“import”, means to bring or cause to be brought into Singapore
   by land, water or air from any place which is outside
   Singapore but does not include the bringing into Singapore
   by water or air of any goods which it is proved to be intended
   to be taken out of Singapore on the same vessel or aircraft on
   which they were brought into Singapore without any landing
   or transhipment within Singapore;

“importer”, in relation to an imported article, includes any
   person who, whether as owner, consignor, consignee, agent
   or broker, is in possession of the article or is in any way
   entitled to the custody or control of the article;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
7  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

   “infectious disease” means —

   (a) any disease set out in the First or Second Schedule to
        the Infectious Diseases Act 1976;

   (b) any skin disease which is likely to be contagious; and

   (c) such other disease as the Minister may prescribe;

   “insanitary conditions” means such conditions or circumstances
      as might contaminate any food with dirt or filth or render the
      same injurious to health or unfit for human consumption;

   “intended use”, in relation to food, means the use of the food that
      is specifically stated, or could reasonably be presumed to be
      intended, taking into account the food’s nature, labelling,
      packaging and identification;

   “label” includes any tag, brand, mark or statement in writing or
      any representation or design or other descriptive matter on or
      attached to or used or displayed in connection with or
      accompanying any food or package containing food;

   “licence” means a licence issued under Part 4;

   “licensee” means a person who is the holder of a licence;

   “manufacturing”, in relation to food for sale, includes any one or
      more of the following:

   (a) making food by combining ingredients;

   (b) significantly changing the condition or nature of food
        by any process, such as milling flour or peeling,
        cutting and freezing fruits;

   (c) bottling or canning food, including bottling water;

   (d) making ice,

   but does not include —

   (e) cooking or otherwise preparing food at a particular
       place for retail sale at the place, including sale for
       immediate consumption; or

   (f) making ice at a particular place for use at the place;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    8

“meat” includes any part of slaughtered poultry, bovine animal,
   ovine animal, caprine animal, porcine animal, game or other
   animal, that is intended for human consumption;

“meat product” means any of the following intended for human
   consumption:

          (a) offal or other part of a carcase;

          (b) any product derived from processing or preserving
               meat;

          (c) any product containing meat;

“non-retail food business” has the meaning given by section 2F;

“package” includes every means by which goods may be cased,
   enclosed, contained or packed;

“poison” means any substance deemed to be a poison within the
   meaning of the Poisons Act 1938;

“premises” includes —

          (a) land (whether or not vacant);

          (b) the whole or any part of a building, tent, stall or other
               structure (whether of a permanent or temporary
               nature);

          (c) a vehicle; and

          (d) a pontoon;

“prepare” includes manufacture, process and treat;

“primary food production” means the growing, raising,
   cultivation, picking, harvesting, collection or catching of
   food, and includes the following:

          (a) the transport or delivery of food on, from or between
               premises on which it was grown, raised, cultivated,
               picked, harvested, collected or caught;

          (b) the packing, treating (for example, washing) or
               storing of food on the premises on which it was
               grown, raised, cultivated, picked, harvested,
               collected or caught;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
9  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

   (c) the storage of food in a silo that is not connected with
       a food processing operation and the transport or
       delivery of food from, between or to such silos;

   (d) the sale of livestock at sale yards and the transport of
        livestock to and from sale yards;

   (e) any other food production activity that is prescribed
       as primary food production for the purposes of this
       Act,

   but does not include —

   (f) any process involving the substantial transformation
       of food (for example, manufacturing or canning),
       regardless of whether the process is carried out on the
       premises on which the food was grown, raised,
       cultivated, picked, harvested, collected or caught;

   (g) the sale or service of food directly to the public; or

   (h) any other food production activity that is declared by
        the Minister by order in the Gazette not to be primary
        food production for the purposes of this Act;

   “primary food production business” means a business or an
      undertaking or activity that involves, in whole or part,
      primary food production;

   “proprietor” means —

   (a) for a food business —

   (i) the person carrying on the food business; or

   (ii) if the person in sub‑paragraph (i) cannot be
        identified, the person in charge of the food
        business; and

   (b) for any food premises — the proprietor of the food
        business that operates at, on or from the premises;

   “public health” means the health of —

   (a) the people in Singapore; or

   (b) a community or section of those people;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    10

“requirement of this Act” means —

          (a) a requirement of or under a provision of this Act;

          (b) a requirement of or under any food regulation;

          (c) a requirement of a notice or order given by the
              Director‑General under this Act;

          (d) a requirement of a direction given by the
               Director‑General under Part 2A; or

          (e) a condition imposed by or under this Act or any food
              regulation;

“retail food business” means a business or an undertaking or
   activity at a food establishment within the meaning of the
   Environmental Public Health Act 1987 which is used for a
   purpose specified in the First Schedule to that Act;

“sell” has the meaning given by section 2E;

“statutory authority” means a body corporate established or
   constituted by or under a public Act to perform or discharge a
   public function, and includes a Town Council;

“substance” includes any liquid, mixture or compound;

“unsafe”, in relation to food, has the meaning given by
   section 2C;

“unsuitable”, in relation to food, has the meaning given by
   section 2D;

“vehicle” means any means of transport, whether self-propelled
   or not, and whether used on land or sea or in the air, such as an
   aircraft, a vessel, train, motor vehicle or personal mobility
   device.

                                                                                       [48/2017; 11/2019]

Meaning of “food”

 2A.—(1) In this Act, “food” includes the following:

       (a) any substance or thing of a kind used, capable of being
            used, or represented as being for use, for human

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
11  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    consumption (whether it is live, raw, prepared or partly
    prepared);

    (b) any substance or thing of a kind used, capable of being
         used, or represented as being for use, as an ingredient or
         additive in a substance or thing mentioned in
         paragraph (a);

    (c) any substance used in preparing a substance or thing
        mentioned in paragraph (a) (other than a substance used in
        preparing a living thing);

    (d) chewing gum or an ingredient or additive in chewing gum,
         or any substance used in preparing chewing gum;

      (e) any substance or thing declared by the Minister by order in
           the Gazette to be food.

                                                                                                         [48/2017]

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), “food” includes —

    (a) unprocessed and raw fruits and vegetables that are
         intended for human consumption;

    (b) seeds, plants, or plant material intended for human
         consumption, including seeds that are intended to be
         sprouted and consumed as sprouts, but not other seeds,
         plants, or plant material intended for planting;

    (c) drinking water;

    (d) any thing that is or is intended to be mixed with or added to
         any food or drink;

    (e) milk and dairy products;

    (f) meat and meat products;

    (g) fish and fish products; and

      (h) eggs.                                              [48/2017]
(3) However, food does not include —

    (a) any health product within the meaning of the Health
         Products Act 2007;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    12

(b) any substance that is a medicinal product within the
     meaning of the Medicines Act 1975;

(c) any controlled drug, psychoactive substance, controlled
     material or controlled substance within the meaning of the
     Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;

                                                                    [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

(d) any poison within the meaning of the Poisons Act 1938;

          (e) any cosmetics;

(f) any tobacco product or tobacco substitute within the
     meaning of the Tobacco and Vaporisers Control Act 1993;

                                                                      [Act 9 of 2026 wef 01/05/2026]

(g) any package (except edible packaging);

(h) any fodder or feeding stuffs for animals; or

        (i) any substance or thing declared by the Minister by order in
            the Gazette not to be food for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (4) A substance, thing or chewing gum described in subsection (1)
is food regardless of whether or not it is in a condition fit for human
consumption.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, “food” may include live animals and plants.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Meaning of “food business”

 2B.—(1) In this Act, “food business” means a business or an
undertaking or activity that involves, in whole or part —

       (a) the handling of food intended for sale;

       (b) the sale of food (on the Internet or otherwise); or

       (c) primary food production,

regardless of whether the business, undertaking or activity concerned
is of a commercial, charitable or community nature, or whether it
involves the handling or sale of food on one occasion only, and
whether part of a non‑retail food business or a retail food business.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
13  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) However, a food business does not include a business or an
undertaking or activity —

    (a) that is part of a business other than trading in food and, in
         the course of which doing so, acts as an intermediary
         between persons who trade in food by providing, for
         reward, a place (including mobile premises) or services
         (such as an Internet service provider or an auction site on
         the Internet);

    (b) that consists exclusively of letting for hire marquees,
         tables, chairs and other similar furniture; or

    (c) that is declared by the Minister by order in the Gazette not
        to be a food business for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                    [48/2017]

Meaning of unsafe food

 2C.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, food is unsafe at a particular
time if it would be likely to cause illness or injury or other physical
harm to a person who might later consume it, assuming —

       (a) it was, after that particular time and before being consumed
            by the person, properly subjected to all processes (if any)
            that are relevant to its reasonable intended use;

       (b) nothing happened to it after that particular time and before
            being consumed by the person that would prevent it being
            used for its reasonable intended use; and

       (c) it was consumed by the person according to its reasonable
            intended use.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) However, food is not unsafe for the purposes of this Act merely
because —

       (a) any individual objects to it because of personal preference;

       (b) any part of the community objects to it on moral, ethical,
            cultural, spiritual, or religious grounds;

       (c) its consumption in inappropriate quantities may damage an
            individual’s health; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    14

       (d) its presence or consumption is unhealthy for any individual
            who has an allergy or other personal health condition.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) In subsection (1)(a), a reference to processes includes a
reference to processes involving storage and preparation.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Meaning of unsuitable food

 2D.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, food is unsuitable if it is food
that —

       (a) is damaged, deteriorated or perished to an extent that
            affects its reasonable intended use;

       (b) contains, or has attached to it or enclosed with it, any
            damaged, deteriorated, perished or contaminated
            substance or thing to an extent that affects its reasonable
            intended use;

       (c) is the product of a diseased animal, or an animal that has
            died otherwise than by slaughter, and has not been declared
            by or under another Act to be safe for human consumption;

       (d) contains a biological or chemical agent, or other matter or
            substance, that is foreign to the nature of the food and the
            presence of which would be unexpected and unreasonable
            in food prepared or packed for sale in accordance with
            good trade practice; or

       (e) has packaging that is damaged, deteriorated, perished or
            contaminated to the extent of affecting the food’s
            reasonable intended use.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) However, food is not unsuitable for the purposes of this Act
merely because —

       (a) at any particular time before it is sold for human
            consumption it contains an agricultural or veterinary
            chemical;

       (b) when it is sold for human consumption it contains an
            agricultural or veterinary chemical or other contaminant,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
15  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    so long as it does not contain the chemical or contaminant
    in an amount that contravenes any food regulations;

    (c) any individual objects to it because of personal preference;

    (d) any part of the community objects to it on moral, ethical,
         cultural, spiritual, or religious grounds;

    (e) its consumption in inappropriate quantities may damage an
        individual’s health; or

        (f) its presence or consumption is unhealthy for any individual
            who has an allergy or other personal health condition.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) In this section, a reference to slaughter of an animal includes a
reference to the killing of an animal in the process of capturing, taking
or harvesting it for the purposes of preparing it for use as food.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Meaning of “sell”

 2E.—(1) In this Act, “sell” includes carrying on any of the
following activities, or a combination of those activities, in relation
to food for human consumption or to a food contact article:

       (a) bartering;

       (b) offering for sale or attempting to sell;

       (c) receiving, or having in possession, for sale;

       (d) displaying for sale;

       (e) causing or permitting to be sold or offered or displayed for
            sale;

        (f) sending, forwarding or delivering for sale;

       (g) disposing of by any method for valuable consideration;

       (h) disposing of to an agent for sale on consignment;

        (i) supplying as a meal or part of a meal to an employee or
            other individual in accordance with an employment
            agreement or an agreement for services under a contract
            of service for consumption by the employee or individual
            at the employee’s or individual’s place of work;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    16

          (j) disposing of by way of raffle, lottery or other game of
              chance;

          (k) offering as a prize or reward;

          (l) offering or giving away for the purpose of advertisement or
              in furtherance of any trade or business;

(m) supplying under a contract (whether or not the contract is
     made with the consumer of the food), together with any
     accommodation, service or entertainment, in consideration
     of an inclusive charge for the food supplied and the
     accommodation, service or entertainment;

(n) supplying food (whether or not for consideration) in the
     course of providing services —

          (i) to patients in hospitals, hospices and other residential
              care facilities like nursing homes;

          (ii) to children or other individuals in the care or custody
               of the supplier by virtue of any Act; or

          (iii) to prisoners or inmates in prisons or other places for
                the detention of individuals under any Act;

(o) supplying anything of which any food forms a part;

       (p) selling for the purpose of resale for handling or human
            consumption.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), in this Act, “sell”, in relation to food,
does not include —

(a) exchanging food for food or other goods or services as part
     of a personal relationship between individuals that is not
     commercial in nature; or

(b) supplying food together with accommodation to a person
     residing at a private residence in exchange for services or
     labour by the person.

                                                                                                 [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
17  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

(3) For the purposes of this Act —

    (a) food that is displayed for the purpose of being offered as a
         prize or reward or given away for the purpose of
         advertisement or in furtherance of trade or business is
         taken to have been displayed for sale by the owner of the
         food;

    (b) food that is donated for a charitable or benevolent purpose
         is not to be taken to be food that was given away for the
         purpose of advertisement or in furtherance of trade or
         business;

    (c) food which is exposed or deposited in any premises for the
        purpose of being so offered as a prize or reward or given
        away is taken to have been exposed for sale by the occupier
        of the premises;

    (d) food that is sold for the purpose of being mixed with any
         other food is to be treated, unless the contrary is proved, as
         sale if the bulk or product produced by the mixing, or any
         part of the bulk or product, is intended to be sold; and

    (e) food that is sold, offered for sale, or displayed for sale is to
        be treated, unless the contrary is proved, as a sale, offer for
        sale or display for sale of the food for human consumption.

                                                                                                    [48/2017]

Meaning of “non-retail food business”

 2F.—(1) In this Act, “non-retail food business” means a food
business that is —

       (a) not carried out for a purpose specified in the First Schedule
            to the Environmental Public Health Act 1987; and

       (b) not a primary food production business,

but includes a food business a component of which is a business, an
undertaking or activity carried out for a purpose specified in the
First Schedule to the Environmental Public Health Act 1987.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a non‑retail food business
includes (but is not limited to) any of the following food businesses:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    18

(a) a factory, plant or other premises where meat products or
     fish products are processed for sale to wholesalers or retail
     food businesses, or for export;

(b) the preparing or packing of ready-to-eat salads for the
     purpose of sale to wholesalers or retail food businesses, or
     for export;

          (c) the manufacturing, preparing or packing of chilled, frozen
              and shelf-stable meals, condiments or prepared foods for
              sale to wholesalers or retail food businesses, or for export;

(d) the manufacturing, preparing (including by cutting,
     mincing, boning, drying, smoking or fermentation after
     slaughter or harvesting) or packing of meat, poultry or fish
     products for the purpose of sale to wholesalers or retail
     food businesses, or for export;

          (e) the manufacturing of bottled drinking water or
              non‑alcoholic beverages, for the purpose of sale to
              wholesalers or retail food businesses, or for export;

          (f) brewers and distillers of vinegar, soya sauce or fish sauce
              for the purpose of sale to wholesalers or retail food
              businesses, or for export;

(g) wholesale bakeries supplying food prepared to wholesalers
     or retail food businesses;

(h) the processing or packing of herbs or spices for the purpose
     of sale to wholesalers or retail food businesses, or for
     export;

          (i) manufacturing or preparing (including by blending and
              packing) dry mix products such as cake mix, drinking
              chocolate, tea bags and powdered soup for sale to
              wholesalers or retail food businesses, or for export;

          (j) a wholesale market where any animal, meat product, fish
              or fish product is sold wholesale or through auction;

          (k) central kitchens supplying food prepared, cooked and
              packed for the purpose of distribution to retail food
              businesses;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
19  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

        (l) an operator of a warehouse or cold storage facility for the
            storage of food intended for sale, whether by wholesalers
            or retail food businesses.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) In subsection (2)(c), “shelf-stable”, in relation to food, means
that —

    (a) the food can be stored at room or ambient temperature
         before its packaging is opened; and

    (b) the food may or may not require refrigeration after its
         packaging is opened.

                                                                                                     [48/2017]

                                    PART 2

             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officers,
etc.

 3.—(1) The Minister must appoint from among officers of the
Agency the Director‑General, Food Administration, who is
responsible for the administration of this Act, subject to the general
or special directions of the Minister.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General may in writing appoint any public officer
or any officer of the Agency or any other statutory authority, or an
auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police Force Act 2004, to
be an authorised officer for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General may appoint one or more persons with the
prescribed qualifications and practical experience to be authorised
analysts for the purposes of this Act.

 (4) The Director‑General may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Director‑General by
this Act (except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection)
to any authorised officer.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    20

 (5) The Director‑General may, for any reason that appears to the
Director‑General to be sufficient, at any time revoke a person’s
appointment as an authorised officer or authorised analyst.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (6) An auxiliary police officer who is appointed as an authorised
officer does not, by virtue only of the appointment, become an
employee or agent of the Agency.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Power of authorised officers to enter, etc.

 4.—(1) Any authorised officer may —

       (a) at any reasonable time enter and inspect any place where
            that authorised officer has reason to believe that there is
            any food or food contact article intended for sale;

       (b) inspect any food or food contact article wherever found
            which that authorised officer has reason to believe is
            intended for sale;

       (c) open and examine any receptacle or package which that
            authorised officer has reasonable grounds for believing to
            contain any article to which this Act applies;

       (d) mark, seal or otherwise secure, weigh, count or measure
            any food or food contact article the sale, preparation or
            manufacture of which is, or appears to be, contrary or not
            in compliance with an applicable requirement of this Act
            with respect to food or food contact articles;

       (e) seize any food or food contact article wherever found
            which is or appears to be unwholesome or deleterious to
            health or which is contrary or not in compliance with an
            applicable requirement of this Act with respect to food or
            food contact articles; and any article seized under this Act
            may at the option of an authorised officer be kept or stored
            in the building or place where it was seized or may at the
            direction of an authorised officer be removed to any other
            proper place;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
21  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    (f) require any person selling or manufacturing any food or
        food contact article or that person’s agent or employee to
        state that person’s name and place of residence; and

       (g) destroy any food wherever found which is decayed or
            putrefied or deleterious to health.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) Any person claiming anything seized under this section may
within 48 hours after the seizure complain thereof to a Magistrate’s
Court, and the complaint may be heard and determined by that Court,
which may either confirm or disallow the seizure wholly or in part
and may order the article seized to be restored.

 (3) If within 48 hours after such seizure no complaint has been
made, or if the seizure is confirmed, the article seized becomes the
property of the Agency and must be destroyed or otherwise disposed
of so as to prevent it being used for human consumption.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (4) Where the seizure of any food or food contact article is made
under subsection (1)(e), the authorised officer making the seizure has
to immediately give written notice of the seizure in the form
prescribed or designed under section 53 to the owner or to the
consignor or consignee or to the owner’s agent of the thing seized, if
the name and address of the owner, consignor, consignee or agent are
attached to that food or food contact article or are otherwise known to
the authorised officer and the address is in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Power to call for information

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (6), an authorised officer may at any
time require any person —

       (a) to produce to the authorised officer for inspection any
            document or record or copies or extracts of any document
            or record which the authorised officer believes on
            reasonable grounds contains any information relevant to
            the administration or enforcement of this Act; or

       (b) to furnish any information as the authorised officer may
            reasonably require.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    22

 (2) Any of the authorised officers mentioned in subsection (1) may
make, or cause to be made, copies of, or extracts from, any such
document or record.

 (3) The copies or extracts certified as such by any authorised officer
are, unless the contrary is proved, deemed to be true and correct
copies or extracts.

 (4) Any person, who refuses or neglects to comply with any
requisition made under this section shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) Except for the purpose of carrying into effect this Act, any
authorised officer who —

(a) does not maintain the secrecy of all matters which come to
     his or her knowledge in the performance of his or her
     official duties under this section; or

(b) communicates any such matter to any person,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (6) The powers conferred under subsection (1) may only be
exercised by an authorised officer —

(a) to determine whether an applicable requirement of this Act
     with respect to food, food contact articles or food
     businesses has been, or is being, complied with;

(b) to ensure that an applicable requirement of this Act with
     respect to food, food contact articles and food businesses
     has been, or is being, or will be, complied with;

          (c) to investigate anything that may have, or might potentially
              have, contaminated food or a food contact article;

(d) to determine whether food or a food contact article is safe
     or suitable;

          (e) to determine whether food or a food contact article poses a
              risk to human life or public health; or

          (f) to investigate any offence under this Act or any
              contravention of or non‑compliance with an applicable
              requirement of this Act.

                                                                                                          [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
23  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

Power to demand and select and take or obtain samples

 6.—(1) On payment or tender to any person selling or
manufacturing any food or food contact article or to that person’s
agent or employee of the current market value of samples of the food
or food contact article, any authorised officer may at any place
demand and select and take or obtain such samples for the purpose of
analysis or examination.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) Any such authorised officer may require that person or that
person’s agent or employee to show and permit the inspection of the
package in which the food or food contact article is at the time kept,
and may take therefrom the samples demanded.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) Where any food or food contact article is kept for retail sale in
an unopened package, a person must not be required by any
authorised officer to sell less than the whole of the contents of that
package.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (4) Any person who refuses or neglects to comply with any demand
or requisition made by an authorised officer under this section shall
be guilty of an offence.

Power to demand samples of milk or food in course of delivery
under contract

 7.—(1) Any authorised officer may procure for the purpose of
analysis or examination —

       (a) any sample of any milk in course of delivery to the
            purchaser or consignee pursuant to any contract for the sale
            to such purchaser or consignee of that milk; and

       (b) upon the request or with the consent of the purchaser or
            consignee, at the place of delivery, any sample of any other
            article of food in course of delivery to the purchaser or
            consignee pursuant to any contract for the sale to the
            purchaser or consignee of that article of food.

 (2) The seller or consignor or any person entrusted by the seller or
consignor for the time being with the charge of such milk or other

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    24

article of food, if the seller, consignor or person entrusted refuses to
allow an authorised officer to take the quantity which the authorised
officer requires for the purpose of analysis or examination, shall be
guilty of an offence.

Any person may have sample analysed

 8. Any person other than the seller may, on payment of the
prescribed fee, together with the cost of the sample, require any
authorised officer to purchase a sample of any food or food contact
article and submit the same for analysis.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 9. [Repealed by Act 11 of 2019]

Certificate of authorised analyst

 10.—(1) A certificate of the results of an analysis given by an
authorised analyst must be in the form prescribed or designed under
section 53 and signed by the authorised analyst but the analysis may
be made by a person acting under the direction of the authorised
analyst.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) A copy of the result of any analysis of any food or food contact
article procured by an authorised officer may be obtained from the
authorised analyst by the person from whom the article so analysed
was purchased or obtained, on payment of such fee as may be
prescribed.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) A person who uses a copy of the result of an analysis mentioned
in paragraph (2) as an advertisement shall be guilty of an offence.

                                   PART 2A
                      FOOD SAFETY MEASURES
                     Division 1 — General provisions
Persons to whom directions may be given
 10A. The Director‑General may give a direction under this Part to
all or any of the following, individually or as a class:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
25                   Sale of Food Act 1973                   2020 Ed.

    (a) a licensee;

    (b) a proprietor of a food business or food premises, if not a
         licensee;

    (c) an importer of any food or food contact article;

    (d) an exporter of any food or food contact article;

    (e) a manufacturer of any food contact article;

    (f) a person carrying on a business of selling or supplying (by
        wholesale or retail) any food contact article;

    (g) a person in control of, or reasonably appearing to be in
         control of, food or any thing that may become food.

                                                                                         [48/2017; 11/2019]

Content and effect of directions

 10B.—(1) A direction under this Part is binding on —

       (a) the person to whom it is addressed; and

       (b) if applicable, the personal representatives, successors and
            assignees of the person to whom it is addressed to the same
            extent as it applies to that person.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) A direction under this Part must be in writing, or be confirmed
in writing as soon as practicable after being given orally.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) In making a direction under this Part, it is not necessary for the
Director‑General to give any person who may be affected by the
direction a chance to be heard before the direction is given.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (4) A direction under this Part must state —

       (a) whether the person to whom it is given must —

               (i) advise the Director‑General of the details of the
                   manner in which the person proposes to comply with
                   the direction;

              (ii) keep information about the matters that are the
                   subject of the direction;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    26

          (iii) regularly notify the Director‑General about the steps
                being taken towards compliance with the direction;
                or

          (iv) give written notice to the Director‑General when the
               person has complied with the direction;

(b) that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply with the
     direction;

          (c) that if the person to whom the direction is given fails to
              comply with it, the Director‑General may carry out the
              direction; and

       (d) that if the Director‑General carries out the direction, the
            Director‑General may recover the costs reasonably
            incurred in carrying out the direction from the person to
            whom the direction was given.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (5) A direction under this Part continues in force until the earlier of
the following occurs:

(a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the direction is reached;

      (b) the Director‑General revokes the direction.

                                                                                              [48/2017; 11/2019]

(6) A direction under this Part may —

(a) be amended or revoked at any time; and

       (b) be extended or renewed, if the Director‑General is satisfied
            that the circumstances warrant it.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (7) If a person to whom the direction is given fails or refuses to
comply with it, the Director‑General may carry out the direction, and
recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the
direction as a debt due from the person to whom the direction was
given.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (8) If satisfied that a direction under this Part has been complied
with, the Director‑General must —

(a) revoke the direction; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
27  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

       (b) give written notice of the revocation in the same manner in
            which the direction was given or served.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (9) Subsection (5) does not prevent a further direction being made
in the same terms as a direction that has expired.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Service of directions under this Part

 10C.—(1) A direction under this Part that is addressed to a person
is sufficiently served if it is —

    (a) delivered personally to the person by an authorised officer;

    (b) served in the manner prescribed in section 44; or

    (c) if the name and address of the proprietor of any food
        premises is unknown, affixed to the food premises.

                                                                                                    [48/2017]

 (2) A direction under this Part that is addressed to a class of persons
is sufficiently served if it is —

    (a) served on each of the persons in the class in accordance
         with subsection (1); or

    (b) published both —

    (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
        any other news media that, in the opinion of the
        Director‑General, will be most likely to bring the
        direction to the attention of the persons who belong
        to the class; and

    (ii) on the Agency’s official website.

                                                  [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (3) A direction under this Part that is addressed to a statutory
authority is sufficiently served if it is served on the chief executive
(however described) of the statutory authority in accordance with
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

(4) A direction under this Part that is served —

    (a) in accordance with subsection (1) takes effect when it is
         served;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    28

(b) in accordance with subsection (2)(a) takes effect when it is
     served on all the persons in the class in question; and

          (c) in accordance with subsection (2)(b) takes effect at the
              beginning of the day after the date on which
              subsection (2)(b) has been complied with.

                                                                                                          [48/2017]

                          Division 2 — Directions

General corrective action direction

 10D.—(1) The Director-General may give a direction to any of the
persons described in section 10A about the taking of preventative or
corrective action in respect of food or a food contact article that the
Director‑General reasonably believes is necessary (whether or not
from the report of an authorised analyst or authorised officer) to
ensure compliance with an applicable requirement of this Act with
respect to food or food contact articles.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), “corrective action”, in the case
of a direction given to a food business, includes requiring the
proprietor of the food business to do any one or more of the
following:

       (a) take specified steps to ensure that food raised, cultivated,
            harvested, caught, prepared, sold or otherwise handled at
            the premises at which the food business is carried out is
            safe and suitable;

       (b) take specified steps to ensure that those premises, or any
            vehicle, plant, food contact article, machinery or
            equipment used on those premises in connection with
            any food raised, cultivated, harvested, caught, prepared,
            sold or otherwise handled at those premises is cleaned and
            disinfected or put into an altered condition to the
            satisfaction of an authorised officer;

       (c) ensure that any applicable requirement of this Act with
            respect to food or food contact articles is complied with;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
29  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    (d) until the corrective action in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) is
         complied with, ensure that —

    (i) the premises at which the food business is carried
        out, or a specified area of the premises, is not used for
        the raising, cultivation, harvesting, catching,
        preparation, sale or other handling of food or an
        activity connected with food specified in the
        direction;

    (ii) any vehicle, plant, food contact article, machinery or
         equipment on those premises is not used in
         connection with the raising, cultivation, harvesting,
         catching, preparation, sale or other handling of food
         or an activity connected with food specified in the
         direction; or

    (iii) any food or class of food specified in the direction is
          not removed from those premises, for any purpose
          (including any purpose specified in the direction) or
          in any circumstances specified in the direction, for
          the period of time that is specified in the direction.

                                                                                            [48/2017]

Direction to impose movement controls

 10E.—(1) The Director‑General may give a direction in
subsection (2) if the Director‑General reasonably suspects (whether
or not from the report of an authorised analyst or authorised
officer) —

       (a) that food or any thing that may become food, or a food
            contact article, does not comply with an applicable
            requirement of this Act; or

       (b) the existence of a hazard or a source of contamination that
            may affect food or any thing that may become food.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (2) The direction may impose movement or related controls to
determine, minimise, manage, or control the risk to human life or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.             Sale of Food Act 1973                         30

public health created by the suspected non‑compliance or suspected
existence of the hazard or the source of contamination.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) A direction under this section must specify the suspected
non‑compliance, hazard or source of contamination, including by
reference to —

(a) a thing described in subsection (4);

(b) a place (where, for example, there may be contamination
     from the land or the environment); or

      (c) a particular person or food business or a specified class of
           food business (where, for example, the contamination may
           have been caused by a human act or omission).

                                                                                                         [48/2017]

(4) The controls may be imposed on all or any of the following:

(a) activities;

(b) areas or premises;

          (c) food contact articles;

(d) vehicles;

          (e) food;

          (f) any thing that may become food;

(g) food businesses;

       (h) anything else that the Director‑General suspects relates to
            the suspected non‑compliance or the suspected hazard or
            the source of suspected contamination.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (5) The controls on those things described in subsection (4) may do
all or any of the following in relation to a food contact article, or food
or any thing that may become food:

(a) restrict its movement, sale, production, manufacturing or
     handling;

(b) apply conditions to its movement, sale, production,
     manufacturing or handling;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
31  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    (c) prohibit its movement, sale, production, manufacturing or
        handling;

    (d) require the taking of specific actions such as sampling and
         testing to determine the risk (if any) to human life or public
         health;

    (e) require the taking of specific actions to minimise, manage,
        or control the risk to human life or public health;

      (f) do anything else that is necessary to achieve the purpose
           described in subsection (2).

                                                                                                         [48/2017]

(6) A direction under this section may —

    (a) direct the keeping of information about the matters that are
         the subject of the direction;

    (b) direct the provision of reports about matters that are the
         subject of the direction; or

    (c) direct the person to whom the direction is given to notify
        the Director‑General when —

    (i) the non-compliance, hazard, or source of
        contamination has been identified;

    (ii) the non-compliance, hazard, or source of
         contamination has been minimised or removed; or

             (iii) no non-compliance, hazard, or source of
                   contamination has been identified.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (7) In this section, “hazard” means a biological, chemical or
physical agent that —

    (a) is in food or has the potential to be in food, or is a condition
         of food, or has the potential to affect the condition of food;
         and

    (b) causes or could cause an adverse or injurious effect on
         human life or public health.

                                                                                                     [48/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    32

Direction to recall food or food contact article

 10F.—(1) The Director‑General may give any direction in
subsection (2) to persons described in section 10A —

(a) for the purpose of examining, rectifying, controlling, or
     disposing of food or a food contact article, after taking into
     account any relevant information or warnings about food
     or a food contact article that the Director‑General has
     received from authorised officers, or an international
     organisation or authority; or

(b) if the Director‑General has reasonable grounds to believe
     that the direction is necessary —

          (i) to prevent or reduce the possibility of a serious
              danger to public health; or

            (ii) to mitigate the adverse consequences of a serious
                  danger to public health.

                                                                                              [48/2017; 11/2019]

(2) The directions are —

(a) to recall food or a food contact article that is not safe or
     suitable or the safety or suitability of which is in doubt;

(b) to recall a food contact article that has, or for which there is
     doubt about whether it has, contaminated food or caused
     food to be no longer safe or suitable;

          (c) to recall a food contact article if there is doubt about
              whether it may contaminate food;

(d) to recall food or a food contact article that is mislabelled or
     incorrectly identified;

          (e) to take food or a food contact article recalled under any of
              paragraphs (a) to (d) to —

          (i) a place specified in the directions; or

          (ii) a place agreed to between the Director‑General and
               the person to whom the directions are given; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
33  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

        (f) any directions that may be given under section 10G, as
            appropriate.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (3) A direction to recall food or a food contact article may specify
the manner in which, and must specify the period within which, the
recall is to be conducted and completed.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (4) A person who is required by a direction to recall food or a food
contact article must give written notice to the Director‑General of the
completion of the recall as soon as practicable after that completion.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (5) If a person to whom the direction is given under this section fails
or refuses to comply with it, the Director‑General may —

    (a) take any reasonable steps necessary to ensure control of the
         food or food contact article (including entry by authorised
         officers to a place under a warrant); and

       (b) recover the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in
            assuming control of the food or food contact article as a
            debt due from the person to whom the direction was given.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (6) This section does not prevent the Agency exercising its power
under section 10I.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

Direction to manage food or food contact article

 10G.—(1) The Director‑General may give any direction in
subsection (2) to persons described in section 10A if the
Director‑General —

       (a) reasonably believes that food or a food contact article that
            is already the subject of a direction under section 10E is not
            safe or suitable and further controls are required; or

       (b) recalls food or a food contact article under section 10F.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (2) The direction may be about doing or not doing any of the
following to the food or food contact article:

       (a) condemning or destroying it;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.                   Sale of Food Act 1973                         34

(b) disposing of or re-exporting it;                               [48/2017]

          (c) identifying it;

(d) handling, or re-processing it;

          (e) labelling or relabelling it;

          (f) storing it;

(g) transporting it;

(h) sampling or testing it;

          (i) advertising or selling it.

Direction to publish statement

 10H.—(1) The Director‑General may give to persons described in
section 10A a direction about publishing a statement to the public, or
to a class of persons specified in the direction, for the purpose of
protecting the public or class of persons, as the case may be.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General may specify that the statement must
include all or any of the following:

       (a) the nature of the problem, including (where applicable) —

               (i) the particular food or type of food or food contact
                   article to be recalled or disposed of;

              (ii) the reasons why the food or food contact article is
                   considered to be unsafe or unsuitable; and

             (iii) the circumstances in which the consumption of the
                   food is unsafe;

       (b) the remedy that the person will provide;

       (c) the way in which the person will prevent the problem
            arising in future.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General may specify the actual words to be used in
the statement or any part of it.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
35  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

(4) The Director‑General may specify all or any of the following:

    (a) who must publish the statement;

    (b) where the statement must be published;

       (c) the date on which the statement must be published.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (5) Statements published under this section are protected by
absolute privilege.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

                 Division 3 — Supplementary provisions

Compensation

 10I.—(1) A person bound by a direction under this Part who suffers
loss as a result of the making of the direction may apply to the Agency
for compensation if the person considers that there were insufficient
grounds for the making of the direction.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (2) If there were insufficient grounds for the making of the
direction, the Agency is to pay just and reasonable compensation
to the applicant.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (3) The Agency must send written notification of the Agency’s
determination as to the payment of compensation under this section to
each applicant for the payment of compensation.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (4) If the Agency has not determined an application for
compensation under this section within 28 days after receiving the
application, the Agency is taken to have refused to pay any
compensation.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (5) An applicant for the payment of compensation under this
section who is dissatisfied with a determination by the Agency as to
the refusal to pay compensation or as to the amount of compensation
may apply to the District Court for a review of the determination —

       (a) within 14 days after the day on which notification of the
            determination was received; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.            Sale of Food Act 1973                          36

       (b) in a case to which subsection (4) applies, within 14 days
            after the 28‑day period mentioned in that subsection ends.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (6) If the amount of compensation sought exceeds the jurisdictional
limit of the District Court, the application under subsection (5) is to be
made to the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 40/2019]

 (7) No application for the payment of compensation may be made
under this section after the 14‑day period mentioned in
subsection (5)(a) or (b) ends.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Appeal to Minister

 10J.—(1) A person mentioned in section 10A to whom a direction
under this Part is given and who is aggrieved by the direction may
appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made within a prescribed period
after the date of receipt of the decision that is appealed against.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

(3) The Minister’s decision on appeal is final.

                                                                   [48/2017]

 (4) The Minister may designate to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under this
section —

(a) any Senior Minister of State or Minister of State, for his or
     her Ministry; or

(b) any Senior Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary
     Secretary, for his or her Ministry,

and any reference in this section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Senior Minister of State or Minister of State, or Senior
Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary Secretary so designated for
that appeal.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
37  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

Non-compliance with food safety measures

 10K.—(1) A person to whom a direction under this Part is
addressed must not, without reasonable excuse —

    (a) carry on an activity in contravention of the direction;

    (b) neglect or refuse to comply with any such direction; or

       (c) fail to comply with a condition specified in such a
            direction.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) A person must not remove the copy of any direction affixed to
any food premises under section 10C(1)(c) while that direction
remains in force.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Interface with other written laws
 10L. To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part derogates from any

requirement imposed by or under —
       (a) the Animals and Birds Act 1965;
       (b) the Control of Plants Act 1993;
       (c) the Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act 1998;
       (d) the Environmental Public Health Act 1987;
       (e) the Feeding Stuffs Act 1965;
        (f) the Fisheries Act 1966;
      (fa) the Food Safety and Security Act 2025;

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    38

(g) the Health Products Act 2007;

(h) the Medicines Act 1975;

          (i) the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;

          (j) the Poisons Act 1938; or

          (k) the Wholesome Meat and Fish Act 1999.

                                                                                               [48/2017; 11/2019]

                                    PART 3
                              SALE OF FOOD
Adulterated food
 11. A person must not sell any adulterated food without fully
informing the purchaser at the time of the sale of the nature of the
adulteration.

Food containing prohibited substance
 12. A person must not sell any food which contains any substance

the addition or use of which is prohibited by any regulations made
under this Act.

Food containing substance in excess of permitted proportion
 13. A person must not sell any food containing a greater proportion

of any substance than is permitted by any regulations made under this
Act.

Food containing alcohol, etc.
 14. A person must not sell any food which contains more than

50 parts of methyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol or denatured alcohol in
one million parts of the food.

Selling unsafe or unsuitable food
 15.—(1) A person must not sell food that the person knows or ought

reasonably to know is unsafe.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
39  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) A person must not sell food that the person knows or ought
reasonably to know is unsuitable.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), it is immaterial whether the
food concerned is safe.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Offences concerning labelling

 16.—(1) A person must not sell any food that is packaged or
labelled in a manner that does not comply with all applicable
requirements of this Act relating to identification and labelling of that
food.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) In a prosecution for an offence under section 20 for
contravening subsection (1), it is not necessary for the prosecution
to prove that the accused intended to commit the offence.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Offences involving non-compliant advertising

 16A.—(1) This section applies to an advertisement relating to any
food or prescribed food contact article that —

       (a) does not comply with all applicable requirements of this
            Act relating to advertisements promoting the food or that
            prescribed food contact article;

       (b) is false as to the age, composition, effects, nature, origin,
            purity, quality or strength of the food or the safety or
            suitability of the food or that prescribed food contact
            article;

       (c) is likely to deceive a buyer as to the age, composition,
            effects, nature, origin, purity, quality or strength of the food
            or the safety or suitability of the food or that prescribed
            food contact article;

       (d) is prohibited by an applicable requirement of this Act from
            being marked or attached to the kind of food or that
            prescribed food contact article, or packages containing that
            kind of food;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    40

          (e) makes a statement prohibited by an applicable requirement
              of this Act to be made in an advertisement relating to the
              kind of food or that prescribed food contact article;

          (f) expressly or impliedly qualifies, or is contrary to, details
              required by an applicable requirement of this Act to be
              marked or attached to the kind of food, or packages
              containing that kind of food or that prescribed food contact
              article;

(g) omits from the name or description of the food or the
     prescribed food contact article any word or words required
     by an applicable requirement of this Act to be included in
     the name or description marked on or attached to the kind
     of food or that prescribed food contact article, or packages
     containing that kind of food;

(h) fails to make a statement required by an applicable
     requirement of this Act to be made in an advertisement
     relating to the kind of food or that prescribed food contact
     article; or

      (i) fails to show, in an advertisement shown on a screen, a
           word or words or statement required by paragraph (g) or
           (h) in clearly legible lettering for a sufficient length of time
           for an ordinary viewer to read them.

                                                                                                         [48/2017]

(2) A person who is —

(a) the person selling, promoting the sale, or appearing to
     promote the sale of any food or prescribed food contact
     article; or

(b) the agent or employee of the person selling, promoting the
     sale, or appearing to promote the sale of any food or
     prescribed food contact article,

must not publish an advertisement described in subsection (1)
relating to the food or that prescribed food contact article.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
41              Sale of Food Act 1973                        2020 Ed.

 (3) In a prosecution for an offence under section 20 for
contravening subsection (2), it is not necessary for the prosecution
to prove that the accused intended to commit the offence.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (4) In a prosecution for an offence under section 20 for
contravening subsection (2) concerning an advertisement of a kind
mentioned in subsection (1)(b), the advertisement is taken to be false
as to the relevant matter in that subsection unless evidence is adduced
by the accused to the contrary.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (4) does not —

    (a) have the effect that, merely because such evidence to the
         contrary is adduced, the advertisement is not false as to the
         relevant matter in subsection (1)(b); or

       (b) have the effect of placing on any person the onus of
            proving that the advertisement is not false as to the relevant
            matter in subsection (1)(b).

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (6) Without affecting section 32, in any proceedings for an offence
under section 20 in relation to the publication of an advertisement in
contravention of subsection (2), it is a defence to the charge for the
accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities —

    (a) that —

    (i) the accused was acting in the course of a business of
        delivering, transmitting or broadcasting
        communications (in whatever form or by whatever
        means) or making data available; and

    (ii) the nature of the business is such that persons
         undertaking it have no control over the nature or
         content of the communications or data; or

    (b) that the accused —

    (i) carried on the business of publishing or arranging for
        the publication of advertisements; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    42

              (ii) published or arranged for the publication of the
                   advertisement in question in the ordinary course of
                   that business.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (7) However, subsection (6) does not apply if the accused
concerned —

(a) ought reasonably to have known that the publication of the
     advertisement was an offence under this Part;

(b) had previously been informed in writing by or on behalf of
     the Director‑General that publication of such an
     advertisement would constitute an offence under this
     Part; or

          (c) is the proprietor of a food business or is otherwise engaged
              in the conduct of a food business for which the
              advertisements concerned were published.

                                                                                               [48/2017; 11/2019]

False labelling, etc.

 17. A person must not sell any food which is labelled or advertised
in a manner that is false, misleading or deceptive or is likely to create
an erroneous impression regarding its value, merit or safety.

Sale of food not of the quality, etc., demanded

 18. A person must not sell to the prejudice of the purchaser any food
which is not of the quality or not of the nature, or not of the substance
of the food demanded by the purchaser.

Sale of food prepared under insanitary conditions

 19. A person must not sell any food which is manufactured,
prepared, preserved, packaged or stored under insanitary conditions.

Offences under this Part

 20. Any person who contravenes any provision of this Part shall be
guilty of an offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
43  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    NON-RETAIL FOOD BUSINESS

                                                             [48/2017]

Non-retail food business must be licensed

 21. A person must not carry on a non‑retail food business except in
accordance with a licence issued to the person by the
Director‑General under this Part.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Persons with infectious disease not to carry on business

 22.—(1) The Director‑General may require —

       (a) any person to whom a licence has been issued under this
            Part (called in this Act a licensee);

       (b) any assistant or employee of the licensee; or

       (c) any applicant for a licence under this Part,

to submit to medical examination.

 (2) If such licensee, assistant, employee or applicant is suffering
from or is suspected to be suffering from an infectious disease or is
suspected to be a carrier thereof, the Director‑General may require the
licensee, assistant, employee or applicant to undergo treatment.

 (3) The Director‑General may require that treatment to be obtained
at any hospital as the Director‑General may think fit.

 (4) The Director‑General may require any licensee or any assistant
or employee of the licensee to submit to immunisation against any
infectious disease.

 (5) Every licensee must ensure that the licensee’s assistant or
employee is immunised against any infectious disease as required by
the Director‑General.

 (6) The Director‑General may, at any time, revoke or suspend any
licence issued under this Part if —

       (a) the licensee is suffering from an infectious disease;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    44

(b) the licensee knowingly employs any person who is
     suffering from or is suspected to be suffering from an
     infectious disease;

          (c) the licensee or the licensee’s assistant or employee refuses
              to comply with any requisition made by the
              Director‑General under subsection (1), (2) or (3); or

(d) the licensee does not comply with subsection (5).

Cleanliness of vehicles, equipment, etc.

 23.—(1) Any person who uses a vehicle to transport food must
ensure that the surface of the vehicle with which the food is likely to
come into contact is kept in a state of cleanliness, good order and
condition so as to prevent any risk of contamination of the food.

 (2) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require any person
who uses a vehicle to transport food to use or install in or on the
vehicle any device or equipment as the Director‑General may think fit
to ensure that the food carried in or on the vehicle will not be
contaminated.

Offences under this Part, powers of arrest and notice to attend
court

 24.—(1) Any person who contravenes any provision of this Part
shall be guilty of an offence and may be arrested without warrant by
any police officer or authorised officer and taken before a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (2) Despite subsection (1) or any other written law for the time
being in force, any police officer or authorised officer who, having
effected an arrest under subsection (1), is satisfied as to the identity,
name and place of residence of the person arrested, may, instead of
taking the person before a Magistrate’s Court or to a police station,
serve upon that person a notice in such form as may be required under
section 53 requiring that person to attend at the Court described at the
hour and on the date specified in the notice.

 (3) For the purpose of satisfying himself or herself as to the identity
of the person arrested, the police officer or authorised officer may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
45  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

require the person arrested to furnish any evidence of identity as the
police officer or authorised officer may consider necessary.

 (4) A duplicate of the notice served under subsection (2) must be
prepared by the police officer or authorised officer (as the case may
be) and produced by the police officer or authorised officer to a
Magistrate’s Court if so required by the Court.

 (5) On an accused appearing before a Magistrate’s Court under
such a notice, the Court is to take cognizance of the offence alleged
and is to proceed as though the accused were produced before it under
subsection (1).

 (6) If a person upon whom a notice under subsection (2) has been
served fails to appear before a Magistrate’s Court in accordance with
the notice, the Court is to then issue a warrant for the arrest of that
person.

 (7) Where a person is arrested under subsection (6), a Magistrate’s
Court is to proceed as though the person were produced before it
under subsection (1).

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                                    PART 5

                        PRESUMPTIONS OF LAW

Adulteration

 25. For the purposes of this Act, any food is deemed to be
adulterated if —

       (a) it contains or is mixed or diluted with any substance which
            diminishes in any manner its nutritive or other beneficial
            properties as compared with such food in a pure and
            normal state and in an undeteriorated and sound condition,
            or which in any other manner operates or may operate to
            the prejudice or disadvantage of the purchaser or
            consumer;

       (b) any substance or ingredient has been extracted or omitted
            from it, and by reason of such extraction or omission the
            nutritive or other beneficial properties of the food as sold

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    46

          are less than those of the food in its pure and normal state
          or the purchaser or consumer is or may be in any manner
          prejudiced;

          (c) it contains or is mixed or diluted with any substance of
              lower commercial value than such food in a pure and
              normal state and in an undeteriorated and sound condition;

(d) it does not comply with the prescribed standard; or

          (e) it contains any substance which renders the food injurious
              to health.

Liability of importer, packer or manufacturer

 26. Where any food or food contact article in connection with
which there is a breach of any provision of this Act is sold in an
unopened package, any person who appears from any statement
thereon or attached thereto to have imported or manufactured or
prepared that food or food contact article or to have enclosed it in that
package is, unless proved to the contrary, deemed to have so
imported, manufactured, prepared or enclosed that food or food
contact article and shall be liable to the same fine as if that person had
actually sold that food or food contact article, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Sale by agent or employee

 27. For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) every person is deemed to sell any food or food contact
            article who sells the food or food contact article either on
            the person’s own account or as the agent or employee of
            any other person; and

       (b) in the case of any sale by an agent or employee, the agent’s
            or employee’s principal or employer shall be under the
            same liability as if the principal or employer had effected
            the sale personally.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
47  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

Presumptions as to sale for human consumption

 28.—(1) When any food or food contact article is sold or exposed
or offered for sale, it is, unless the contrary is proved, deemed to be
sold or exposed or offered for sale for human consumption or use.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) The purchase and sale of a sample of any food under this Act for
the purpose of analysis or examination is deemed to be a purchase and
sale of such food for human consumption or use, unless the seller
proves that the bulk from which the sample was taken was not
offered, exposed or intended for sale for human consumption or use.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act every person is deemed to sell or to
intend to sell any food if the person sells or intends to sell for human
consumption any article of which the food is a constituent.

                                    PART 6

                         LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Jurisdiction of court

 29. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Proceedings for offences

 30.—(1) The summons in any such proceedings must not be made
returnable in less than 14 days from the date on which it is served.

 (2) A copy of the authorised analyst’s certificate (if any) on which
the prosecution is based, must be served with the summons.

No defence that purchaser bought for analysis

 31. In any proceedings under this Act, it is not a defence that the
purchaser bought any food or food contact article for analysis or
examination and therefore was not prejudiced.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    48

No defence that offence not wilfully committed

 32. In a prosecution for selling any food or food contact article
contrary to this Act, it is not a defence that the accused did not act
wilfully, unless the accused also proves that the accused took all
reasonable steps to ascertain that the sale of the food or food contact
article would not constitute an offence under this Act.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Reliance on written warranty a good defence

 33.—(1) Subject to this section, it is a good defence in any
prosecution for an offence under Part 3 if the accused proves that —

       (a) the accused purchased the food or food contact article sold
            by the accused in reliance on a written warranty or other
            written statement as to the nature of the food or food
            contact article purchased, signed by or on behalf of the
            person from whom the accused purchased the food or food
            contact article;

       (b) the accused had no reason to believe that the food or food
            contact article sold did not conform to such warranty or
            statement; and

       (c) if the food or food contact article had truly conformed to
            such warranty or statement, the sale of the food or food
            contact article by the accused would not have constituted
            the offence charged against the accused.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) No warranty or other written statement given or made by a
person resident outside Singapore is a defence under this section,
unless the accused proves that the accused had taken reasonable steps
to ascertain and did in fact believe in the truth of the matters set out in
such warranty or statement.

 (3) No warranty or other written statement is a defence in any
prosecution, unless the accused has, within 7 days after service of the
summons, delivered to the prosecutor a copy of the warranty or
statement with a written notice stating that the accused intends to rely
on the warranty or statement and specifying the name and address of
the person from whom the accused received it, and has also within the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
49  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

same time sent by registered post a like notice of the accused’s
intention to such person.

 (4) When the accused is an employee or agent of the person who
purchased the food or food contact article under such a warranty or
written statement, the accused is, if the accused further proves that the
accused had no reason to believe that the article did not conform to
the warranty or statement, entitled to the benefit of this section in the
same manner and to the same extent as the accused’s employer or
principal would have been, if the accused’s employer or principal had
been the accused.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (5) Any person who in respect of any food or food contact article
sold by the person as principal or agent gives to the purchaser a false
written warranty shall be guilty of an offence, unless that person
proves to the satisfaction of the court that when that person gave the
warranty that person had reason to believe that the statements or
descriptions contained in the warranty were true.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Authorised analyst’s certificate to be prima facie evidence

 34.—(1) The production by the prosecutor of a certificate of
analysis purporting to be under the hand of an authorised analyst is
sufficient evidence of the facts stated in the certificate, unless the
accused requires the authorised analyst to be called as a witness, in
which case the accused must give notice thereof to the prosecutor at
least 3 clear days before the day on which the summons is returnable.

 (2) In like manner the production by the accused of a certificate of
analysis purporting to be under the hand of an authorised analyst is
sufficient evidence of the facts stated in the certificate, unless the
prosecutor requires the authorised analyst to be called as a witness.

 (3) A copy of the certificate mentioned in subsection (2) must be
sent to the prosecutor at least 3 clear days before the day fixed for the
hearing of the summons, and, if it is not so sent, the District Court or
the Magistrate’s Court (as the case may be) may adjourn the hearing
on any terms that it thinks proper.

 35. [Repealed by Act 11 of 2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    50

Non-disclosure of information

 36.—(1) A prosecutor or witness in any prosecution under this Act
must not be compelled to disclose the fact that he or she received any
information or the nature of the information or the name of any
person who gave the information.

 (2) An authorised officer appearing as a prosecutor or witness must
not be compelled to produce any confidential report or document
made or received by him or her in his or her official capacity or to
make any statement in relation to that report or document.

Recovery of fees and other expenses incidental to prosecution

 37.—(1) When any person is convicted of an offence under this
Act, the court may order the person to pay all fees and other expenses
incidental to the analysis of any food or food contact article in respect
of which the conviction is obtained, and any other reasonable
expenses incurred by the prosecution, must be paid by the person
convicted.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

 (2) All such fees and expenses are recoverable in the same manner
as a fine is recoverable.

Fees, etc., payable to Agency

 38. All fees, charges and moneys collected under this Act (except
financial penalties and composition sums collected under sections 46
and 50) must be paid to the Agency.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

Appeal

 39. Any person aggrieved by any sentence or order under this Act
passed or made by a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court may
appeal to the General Division of the High Court against that sentence
or order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
51              Sale of Food Act 1973                        2020 Ed.

                            PART 7

    SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

Sale of prohibited food contact article

 40.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, prohibit
the import, advertising or sale of any food contact article which is, in
the opinion of the Minister, injurious to life or health.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) A person must not import, advertise or sell any food contact
article in contravention of any notification mentioned in
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (4) Without affecting section 32, in any proceedings for an offence
under subsection (3) in relation to the publication of an advertisement
in contravention of subsection (2), it is a defence to the charge for the
accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities —

    (a) that —

    (i) the accused was acting in the course of a business of
        delivering, transmitting or broadcasting
        communications (in whatever form or by whatever
        means) or making data available; and

    (ii) the nature of the business is such that persons
         undertaking it have no control over the nature or
         content of the communications or data; or

    (b) that the accused —

    (i) carried on the business of publishing or arranging for
        the publication of advertisements; and

              (ii) published or arranged for the publication of the
                   advertisement in question in the ordinary course of
                   that business.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (5) However, subsection (4) does not apply if the accused
concerned —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    52

(a) ought reasonably to have known that the publication of the
     advertisement was an offence under subsection (3); or

(b) had previously been informed in writing by or on behalf of
     the Director‑General that publication of such an
     advertisement would constitute an offence under
     subsection (3).

                                                                                     [48/2017; 11/2019]

Obstruction of authorised officers and interference with
official marks

 41.—(1) A person must not at any time hinder, obstruct or molest
any authorised officer in the performance and execution of that
authorised officer’s duty or of anything which that authorised officer
is empowered or required to do by virtue or in consequence of or
under this Act.

 (2) A person must not, without authority —

       (a) open, alter, break, remove or erase any mark, fastening or
            seal placed by an authorised officer under this Act upon
            any food or food contact article or upon any package,
            place, door or opening containing or affording access to
            any food or food contact article; or

       (b) remove any mark, line, sign or other direction drawn or set
            up for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

Forfeiture of food or food contact article upon conviction

 42.—(1) In the case of any conviction under this Act the District
Court or the Magistrate’s Court (as the case may be) may order that
any food or food contact article to which the conviction relates and
any similar food or food contact article found on the accused’s
premises or in the accused’s possession at the time of the commission
of the offence, together with all packages or vessels containing the
food or food contact article, be forfeited to the Agency.

                                                                                                [48/2017; 11/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
53  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) Everything so forfeited to the Agency must be disposed of as the
Director‑General thinks fit.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Notification of conviction

 43. A notification of the name and occupation of any person who
has been convicted of any offence under this Act together with that
person’s place or places of business, the nature of the offence and the
fine, forfeiture or other penalty inflicted must, if the court so orders,
be published by the Director‑General in the Gazette or any newspaper
circulating in Singapore.

Service of summons, notice, etc.

 44.—(1) Any summons, notice, order or document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on any person may be served —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or by delivering it at the
            person’s usual or last known place of residence to some
            adult member or employee of the person’s family;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in a cover addressed to the person; or

       (c) by forwarding it by registered post addressed to the person
            at the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) Any summons, notice, order or document required or authorised
by this Act to be served on any incorporated company or body, may
be served —

       (a) by delivering it to the secretary of the company or body at
            its registered or principal office; or

       (b) by sending it by registered post addressed to the company
            or body at its registered or principal office.

 (3) Any summons, notice, order or document required or authorised
by this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises may
be served by delivering it or a true copy thereof to some adult person
on the premises or, if there is no such person on the premises to whom

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    54

it can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the
summons, notice, order or document to some conspicuous part of
the premises.

 (4) Any summons, notice, order or document required or authorised
by this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises is
deemed properly addressed if addressed by the description of the
owner or occupier of the premises without further name or
description.

Appeal to Minister against notice, order or decision

 45.—(1) Subject to sections 10J and 46(14), any person who is
aggrieved by any notice, order or decision of the Director‑General
may, within 7 days of the notice, order or decision, appeal in writing
to the Minister whereupon the execution of the notice, order or
decision must be stayed.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (2) The Minister may confirm, vary or rescind the notice, order or
decision or direct that the thing be proceeded with, varied or
abandoned (as the case may be) or make any order which the
Director‑General is competent to make and the Minister’s decision is
final.

 (3) The Minister may designate to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under this
section —

       (a) any Senior Minister of State or Minister of State, or Senior
            Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary Secretary, for his
            or her Ministry; or

       (b) any public officer in his or her Ministry not subordinate to
            the person whose decision is appealed against,

and any reference in this section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Senior Minister of State or Minister of State, or Senior
Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary Secretary or public officer
so designated for that appeal.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
55        Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

Licences

46.—(1) The grant or renewal of any licence —

    (a) is in the discretion of the Director‑General;

    (b) may be granted, renewed or refused without any reason for
         the grant, renewal or refusal being assigned therefor; and

    (c) may be granted or renewed subject to any restrictions and
        conditions that the Director‑General may think fit.

 (2) The Director‑General may require any applicant for a licence to
furnish such information and evidence that the Director‑General may
reasonably require for a full and proper consideration of the
application and, in the event of a refusal to furnish the information,
must refuse to grant or renew the licence.

 (3) The Director‑General may, before granting or renewing any
licence, require the applicant to give security, either in the form of a
cash deposit or by entering into a bond, that the provisions of this Act
and the conditions of the licence will be duly observed.

 (4) Where an applicant is required to enter into a bond, the
Director‑General may require not more than 2 sureties to enter into
the bond with the applicant.

 (5) Any sum deposited or bond entered into under this section is
liable to forfeiture in whole or in part at the discretion of the
Director‑General on cancellation of the licence.

 (6) Any person who wilfully furnishes any false information in any
application for a licence shall be guilty of an offence and any licence
granted is void and of no effect.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any licence may be for any
period that the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (8) There must be charged for the grant or renewal of any licence a
fee prescribed, if any.

 (9) Where a licence is granted for less than 12 months, the
Director‑General may charge a proportionate fee therefor; and in
charging such proportionate fee, any part of a month is to be reckoned
as one month.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    56

 (10) A licensee is not entitled to any refund of any fee paid by the
licensee in respect of any licence.

 (11) A person must not in any manner transfer any licence or permit
any licence to be used by any other person without the written
approval of the Director‑General.

(12) Where a licensee —

(a) is in breach of any restriction or condition subject to which
     the licence was granted; or

(b) fails to comply with an applicable requirement of this Act,
     the non‑compliance with which is not an offence under this
     Act,

the Director‑General may —

          (c) suspend or cancel the licence; and

       (d) in the case of paragraph (a), in lieu of or in addition to
            paragraph (c), impose a financial penalty of such amount,
            not exceeding $5,000, as the Director‑General thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (13) All financial penalties collected under this section must be
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (14) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who is
aggrieved by —

(a) the refusal by the Director‑General to grant or renew a
     licence;

(b) the suspension or cancellation by the Director‑General of
     any licence;

          (c) the imposition of any financial penalty by the
              Director‑General; or

(d) the forfeiture of any sum deposited or bond entered into
     under this section,

may, within 14 days of such refusal, suspension, cancellation,
imposition of financial penalty or forfeiture, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
57  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

 (15) The Minister may designate to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under
subsection (14) —

    (a) any Senior Minister of State or Minister of State, or Senior
         Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary Secretary, for his
         or her Ministry; or

    (b) any public officer in his or her Ministry not subordinate to
         the person whose decision is appealed against,

and any reference in that subsection to the Minister includes a
reference to the Senior Minister of State or Minister of State, or
Senior Parliamentary Secretary or Parliamentary Secretary or public
officer so designated for that appeal.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (16) In this section, “licence” includes any approval, permit,
permission, authority, authorisation or licence which may be
granted or renewed by the Director‑General under this Act.

Notices, receipts, etc., may be given by authorised officer

 47.—(1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other
documents which the Director‑General is empowered to give under
this Act may be given by any other authorised officer.

 (2) Where any such notice, order, receipt, warrant or document
requires authentication, the signature or a facsimile thereof of the
Director‑General or an authorised officer affixed to that notice, order,
receipt, warrant or document is sufficient authentication.

Police officers and authorised officers may demand names and
addresses in certain cases

 48.—(1) Any person who is charged by any police officer or
authorised officer with any offence under this Act must on demand
give his or her name and address and other proof of identity to the
police officer or authorised officer, if so required.

 (2) The occupier of any premises must, if required by any police
officer or authorised officer, give his or her name and other proof of
identity and the name and address of the owner of the premises, if
known.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    58

 (3) Any person who contravenes this section or wilfully mis-states
his or her name and address or the name and address of the owner of
any premises shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $300.

General penalties

 49. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act for which
no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

Composition of offences

 50.—(1) The Director‑General may compound any offence under
this Act as may be prescribed as being an offence that may be
compounded by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of
having committed the offence a sum of money not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded and the method and procedure by which
those offences may be compounded under this section.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Inaccuracies in documents

 51.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, street or place named or described in any
document prepared, issued or served under or for the purposes of
this Act in any way affects the operation of this Act as respects that
person or place if that person or place is so named or described in the
document as to be identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under this Act are to be invalid for want
of form.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
59        Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

Evidence

 52.—(1) The content of any document prepared, issued or served
under or for the purposes of this Act is, until the contrary is proved,
presumed to be correct.

 (2) Every record, register and other document kept by any
authorised officer for the purposes of this Act is deemed to be a
public document, and a copy thereof or an extract therefrom certified
by the officer responsible for the custody thereof to be a true copy or
extract (as the case may be) and subscribed by such officer with his or
her name and his or her official title is admissible in evidence as proof
of the content of the document or extract therefrom.

Forms

 53. The Director‑General may design and utilise any forms the
Director‑General thinks fit for any of the purposes of this Act, and
may require any person to complete any of the forms for any such
purpose.

Exemption from Act

 54. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any class of
persons, food businesses, premises, food or activities from the
operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act or the food
regulations.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

Administrative exemption from Act

 55.—(1) The Director‑General may exempt, for a period specified
in the exemption, a particular person, food business, premises, food
or activity from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this
Act or the food regulations where the Director‑General is personally
satisfied that all of the following apply:

       (a) the risk to public health of providing the exemption is
            negligible;

       (b) there are other sufficient safeguards under this Act or any
            other written law, or by other means, to minimise any risk
            to public health in providing the exemption;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    60

          (c) there are requirements in other written law or there are
              other means that deal with the matter to be exempted
              besides the applicable requirements of this Act;

      (d) the exemption is necessary or desirable to avoid
           unnecessary restrictions on trade.

                                                                                                         [48/2017]

(2) An exemption under this section —

(a) must be in writing and given to the particular person
     concerned; and

(b) need not be published in the Gazette.

                                                                   [48/2017]

Regulations

 56.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —

       (a) to prescribe the standard of strength, weight, quality or
            quantity of any food or of any ingredient or component part
            thereof;

       (b) to prohibit the addition or use of any specified thing or of
            more than the specified quantity or proportion thereof to
            any food or food contact article;

       (c) to prohibit any modes of manufacture, preparation or
            preservation of any food or food contact article;

       (d) to secure the cleanliness and freedom from contamination
            of any food in the course of its manufacture, preparation,
            storage, packing, carriage, delivery, exposure for sale or
            sale and to secure the cleanliness of places, receptacles,
            food contact articles and vehicles used in such
            manufacture, preparation, storage, packing, carriage,
            delivery, exposure for sale or sale and to secure the
            proper conduct of places in which the sale or preparation
            for sale of food is carried on and for these purposes to
            require any person to submit to a medical examination;

       (e) regulating the identification and labelling of food or food
            contact articles for sale, including specifying the matter

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
61  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

    that must or must not be contained in any such label and the
    manner of labelling;

    (f) setting out standards for the maintenance, cleanliness,
        sanitation and hygiene of premises at which a non-retail
        food business is carried out;

    (g) setting out requirements and procedures for document
         control and recording by food businesses to achieve the
         safety and suitability of food and to support a secure and
         reliable supply of food, including —

    (i) the information that must be collected about food or
        a food contact article;

    (ii) the periods for which the information must be kept;
         and

    (iii) how, when and to whom that information must be
          reported;

    (h) setting out requirements that apply to imported food or
         food contact articles to ensure that the food or food contact
         article is safe and suitable and to support a secure and
         reliable supply of imported food in Singapore, including
         keeping of records in relation to the source or traceability
         and handling of the food or food contact article imported;

    (i) to prescribe the method of analysis of any food and form of
        certificate of analysis;

    (j) to fix the fees to be paid in respect of the analysis of the
        food by an authorised analyst and for any licence or
        registration issued or effected under this Act and for copies
        of a certificate of analysis;

    (k) prohibiting or regulating the promotion and advertising of
        food and food contact articles, including specifying the
        matter that must or must not be contained in any
        advertisement and the manner of promotion and
        advertising;

    (l) to prohibit the sale of specified food or food contact
        articles otherwise than by weight;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    62

(m) to prohibit or regulate whether by licence or otherwise the
     import or sale of separated or skimmed milk or filled milk
     or whey;

(n) requiring, regulating or prohibiting the display or
     distribution, by a prescribed class of retail food
     businesses, in relation to a prescribed class of food
     which is sold by retail or displayed for sale by retail at
     the premises where the food business is carried out, of
     information of a kind prescribed, including providing
     for —

          (i) nutritional information that must be determined in a
              prescribed manner; and

          (ii) display in the manner (such as in a menu in printed or
               electronic form or a label), and at locations in those
               premises, prescribed for nutritional information of
               that kind;

(o) to regulate the seizure and disposal of unwholesome meat,
     fish, fruit, vegetables or other food or drink exposed or
     intended for sale;

(p) prescribing the fees to be paid in connection with the
     administration of this Act, and the waiver, reduction or
     refund of fees charged;

(q) providing for any saving, transitional and other
     consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
     that the Minister considers necessary or expedient;

          (r) to prescribe that any act or omission, or any contravention
              of the provisions of any regulations shall be an offence and
              to provide for the imposition of a fine not exceeding $5,000
              and, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine of
              $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
              offence continues after conviction; and

          (s) generally to carry out the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                              [48/2017; 11/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
63  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) Any such regulations may be made applicable either to foods or
food contact articles generally or to specified foods or food contact
articles only.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (3) The Minister may, in making any regulations, prescribe the
circumstances in which it is presumed that an offence under the
provisions of any such regulations was committed.

 (4) Any food regulation may adopt or incorporate by reference,
with or without modification specified in the regulation, any matter
contained in any code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or
other document, as in force at a particular time or from time to time,
which relates to any matter with which the food regulation deals, even
if the code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or other
document does not yet exist when the food regulation is made.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (5) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated in any food
regulation by reference under subsection (4) is to be treated for all
purposes as forming part of the food regulation; and, unless otherwise
provided in the food regulation, every amendment to any material
incorporated by reference under subsection (4) that is made by the
person or organisation originating the material is, subject to
subsection (6), to be treated as being a part of the food regulation.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (6) Where any material mentioned in subsection (4) is applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in any food regulation, the
Minister must give notice in the Gazette stating —

    (a) that the material is incorporated in the food regulation and
         the date on which the relevant provision in the food
         regulation was made;

    (b) that the material is available for inspection during working
         hours, free of charge;

    (c) the place where the material can be inspected;

    (d) that copies of the material can be purchased;

    (e) the place where the material can be purchased; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    64

        (f) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
            details of where or how the material can be accessed or
            obtained.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (7) The Minister may, in making any regulations, prescribe the
circumstances when a trade mark may or may not be used on or in
relation to any packaging or container of any particular food, or on
any particular food, or in any advertisement relating to any particular
food, but these circumstances and the operation of those regulations
are not circumstances that make it reasonable or appropriate —

(a) to not register the trade mark under the Trade Marks
     Act 1998;

(b) to revoke the acceptance of an application for registration
     of the trade mark under that Act;

          (c) to register the trade mark subject to conditions or
              limitations under that Act;

(d) to revoke the registration of the trade mark under that Act;
     or

       (e) to declare invalid under that Act the registration of the
            trade mark.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (8) All regulations made under this Act must be published in the
Gazette and must be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication.

 (9) Despite anything in any regulations made under this section,
any person may, at any time within 12 months after the date of the
publication in the Gazette of such regulations, sell any food the sale of
which is otherwise lawful, if that person proves that at that date the
food or food contact article was part of the existing stock-in-trade in
Singapore of any person carrying on business there and that since that
date no act has been done whereby the food or food contact article
fails to conform to the requirements of those regulations.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

 (10) For the purposes of subsection (9) any goods purchased before
the date of the publication in the Gazette of such regulations for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
65  Sale of Food Act 1973                                    2020 Ed.

import into Singapore are deemed to form part of the purchasers’
stock-in-trade in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               SALE OF FOOD ACT 1973

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 12 of 1973 — Sale of Food Act, 1973

Bill           : 4/1973

First Reading  : 16 February 1973

Second and Third Readings : 7 March 1973

Commencement   : 1 May 1973

Note: This Act repealed the provisions of the Sale of Food and Drugs Act
        (Chapter 167, 1970 Revised Edition) relating to the sale of food.

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Sale of Food Act (Chapter 283)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

3. Act 7 of 2002 — Sale of Food (Amendment) Act 2002

Bill           : 10/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 1 July 2002

4. 2002 Revised Edition — Sale of Food Act (Chapter 283)

Operation      : 31 December 2002

5. Act 48 of 2017 — Sale of Food (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill           : 42/2017

First Reading  : 2 October 2017

Second and Third Readings : 7 November 2017

Commencement   : 1 February 2018

6. Act 11 of 2019 — Singapore Food Agency Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 64 of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/2019

First Reading  : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
                      ii

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (section 64)

7. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 141 of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 141 of the Schedule)

8. 2020 Revised Edition — Sale of Food Act 1973

Operation             : 31 December 2021

9. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022

10. Act 12 of 2023 — Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 9/2023

First Reading         : 24 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2023

Commencement          : 1 June 2024

11. Act 7 of 2025 — Food Safety and Security Act 2025

Bill                  : 49/2024

First Reading         : 12 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 8 January 2025

Commencement          : 28 November 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
               iii

12. Act 9 of 2026 — Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale)
                           (Amendment) and Other Matters Act 2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2026

First Reading  : 12 February 2026

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2026

Commencement   : 1 May 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
          COMPARATIVE TABLE
         SALE OF FOOD ACT 1973

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2002 Ed.
                   30—(3) [Deleted by Act 11 of 2019]
—
—                     (4) [Deleted by Act 11 of 2019]
46—(13)            46—(12A)

   (14)               (13)
   (15)               (13A)
   (16)               (14)
56—(4)             56—(3A)
   (5)                (3B)
   (6)                (3C)
   (7)                (3D)
   (8)                (4)
   (9)                (5)
   (10)               (6)
—                  FIRST SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                   Act 48 of 2017]
—                  SECOND SCHEDULE [Repealed by
                   Act 48 of 2017]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/5/2026
