THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN CRIMINAL
                       MATTERS ACT 2000

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                                                                    2020 Ed.

Mutual Assistance in Criminal
        Matters Act 2000

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
          General interpretation
     1.   Meaning of “item subject to legal privilege”
     2.   Object of Act
     2A.  Act not to limit cooperation with international organisations, etc.
     3.   Act not authority for extradition of person
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2
                          REQUESTS BY SINGAPORE

                       Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
 6. Application of this Part
 7. Requests to be made by Attorney‑General

                Division 2 — Assistance in obtaining evidence

 8. Requests for taking of evidence, etc.

             Division 3 — Assistance in arranging attendance of
                                 person in Singapore

 9. Requests for attendance of person in Singapore
10. Penalty not to be imposed for refusal to consent
11. Immunities and privileges
12. Limitation on use of statement

                Division 4 — Assistance in enforcing Singapore
                                 confiscation orders

13. Requests for enforcement of Singapore confiscation order

                                                    1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                              2

          Division 5 — Assistance in locating or identifying persons

Section
   14. Assistance in locating or identifying persons

          Division 6 — Assistance in service of process

15. Assistance in service of process

          PART 3

          REQUESTS TO SINGAPORE

          Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

16. Application of this Part
17. Prescribed foreign countries
18. Assistance may be subject to conditions
19. Requests to be made to Attorney‑General
20. Refusal of assistance

          Division 2 — Assistance in obtaining evidence

21.       Taking of evidence for criminal proceedings
21A.      Taking statements for criminal investigations
22.       Production orders for criminal matters
23.       Supplementary provisions regarding production orders
24.       Immunities
25.       Failure to comply with production order

          Division 3 — Assistance in arranging attendance of person in
                                      foreign country

26. Requests for attendance of person in foreign country

          Division 4 — Custody of persons in transit through Singapore

27. Custody of persons in transit
28. Escape from custody

          Division 5 — Enforcement of foreign confiscation order, etc.

29. Requests for enforcement of foreign confiscation order
30. Registration of foreign confiscation order
31. Proof of orders, etc., of prescribed foreign country
32. Evidence in relation to proceedings and orders in prescribed

         foreign country

          Division 6 — Assistance in search and seizure

33. Request for search and seizure

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
         Mutual Assistance in Criminal

3        Matters Act 2000                                            2020 Ed.

Section  Search warrants
         Additional powers of person executing search warrant, etc.
   34.   Immunities
   35.
   36.

         Division 7 — Assistance in locating or identifying persons

   37. Assistance in locating or identifying persons

         Division 8 — Assistance in service of process

   38. Assistance in service of process
   39. Undertaking by foreign country
   40. Penalty not to be imposed for failure to comply with summons

                                           PART 4

                          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

   41. Attorney‑General to give notice to Minister
   42. Authentication of documents
   43. Delegation
   44. Regulations
   45. Regulations for provision of assistance to certain bodies
   46. Rules of Court
   47. Amendment of Schedules

            First Schedule — Drug dealing offences
            Second Schedule — Serious offences
            Third Schedule — Enforcement of foreign confiscation

                                      orders

An Act to facilitate the provision and obtaining of international
  assistance in criminal matters.

                                                                 [1 April 2000]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                Matters Act 2000                            4

General interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act —

“ancillary criminal matter” means —

          (a) the restraining of dealing with, or the seizure,
               forfeiture or confiscation of, property in connection
               with a Singapore offence or foreign offence, as the
               case may be; or

          (b) the obtaining, enforcement or satisfaction of a
               Singapore confiscation order or foreign
               confiscation order, as the case may be;

“appropriate authority”, in relation to a foreign country, means a
   person or authority whom the Attorney‑General is satisfied is
   authorised under the law of that country —

          (a) in the case of a request by that country to Singapore
               for assistance in a criminal matter, to make the
               request; or

          (b) in the case of a request by Singapore to that country
               for assistance in a criminal matter, to receive the
               request;

“authorised officer” means —

          (a) the Director, a Deputy Director, a Divisional Director
               or any other officer, of the Central Narcotics Bureau,
               appointed under section 3(1) of the Misuse of Drugs
               Act 1973;

          (b) any special investigator of the Corrupt Practices
               Investigation Bureau appointed under section 3(2) of
               the Prevention of Corruption Act 1960;

          (c) any Commercial Affairs Officer appointed under
              section 64 of the Police Force Act 2004;

          (d) any police officer; or

          (e) any other person or class of persons appointed by the
              Minister as an authorised officer or authorised
              officers for the purposes of this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

5  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

   “competent authority”, in relation to a foreign confiscation
      order, means an authority of a foreign country that is
      competent under the laws of that foreign country to make
      the foreign confiscation order;

                                                                          [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

   “corresponding drug law”, in relation to a foreign country,
      means a law of the foreign country providing for the control
      or regulation, in that country or the part of that country in
      which the law is in force, of —

   (a) the production, supply, use, export and import of
        drugs and other substances in accordance with the
        provisions of the Single Convention on Narcotic
        Drugs signed at New York on 30 March 1961;

   (b) the production, supply, use, export and import of
        dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs pursuant to
        any treaty, convention or other agreement or
        arrangement to which the Government and the
        government of that country are for the time being
        parties; or

   (c) the benefits of trafficking in the drugs or substances
       referred to in paragraph (a) or (b);

   “criminal investigation” means an investigation —

   (a) into a Singapore offence or foreign offence, as the
        case may be; or

   (b) for the purposes of an ancillary criminal matter;

   “criminal matter” means —

   (a) a criminal investigation;

   (b) criminal proceedings; or

   (c) an ancillary criminal matter;

   “criminal proceedings” means a trial of a person for a Singapore
      offence or foreign offence (as the case may be) and includes
      any proceeding to determine whether a particular person
      should be tried for the offence;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          6

“dealing”, in relation to property, includes —

          (a) receiving or acquiring the property;

          (b) concealing or disguising the property (whether by
               concealing or disguising its nature, source, location,
               disposition, movement or ownership or any rights
               with respect to it or otherwise);

          (c) disposing of or converting the property;

          (d) bringing the property into or removing the property
               from Singapore;

          (e) using the property to borrow money, or as security
              (whether by way of charge, mortgage or pledge or
              otherwise); and

          (f) where a debt is owed to the person holding the
              property, making a payment to any person in
              reduction of the amount of the debt;

“defendant” means a person against whom, or in relation to
   whose property, a foreign confiscation order is or may be
   made;

                                [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

“drug dealing offence” means —

          (a) any offence (being an offence against the law of
               Singapore) specified in the First Schedule;

          (b) conspiracy to commit any such offence;

          (c) inciting another to commit any such offence;

          (d) attempting to commit any such offence; or

          (e) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the
              commission of any such offence;

“financial institution” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

7  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

   “foreign confiscation order” —

   (a) means an order made by a court or other competent
        authority of a foreign country, on or after the
        appointed date for that country, for the recovery,
        forfeiture or confiscation of —

   (i) any property obtained or received in
       connection with an offence against the law of
       that country, or the value of that property; or

   (ii) any property derived or realised, directly or
        indirectly, from any property mentioned in
        sub‑paragraph (i), or the value of the derived or
        realised property; and

           (b) includes an instrumentality forfeiture order;

                                                                          [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

   “foreign country” means any country, or territory, other than
      Singapore;

   “foreign law immunity certificate” means a certificate given, or
      a declaration made, by a foreign country or under the law of a
      foreign country, certifying or declaring that, under the law of
      that country, persons generally or a specified person could or
      could not, either generally or in specified proceedings and
      either generally or in specified circumstances, be required —

   (a) to answer a specified question; or

   (b) to produce a specified thing;

   “foreign offence” means any offence against the law of a foreign
      country;

   “foreign tax evasion offence” means an offence against the
      national law of a foreign country that consists of the doing of
      any of the following (however described) wilfully with intent
      to evade, or to assist any other person to evade, any tax of that
      country:

   (a) omitting from, or understating or overstating in, a
        return made for the purposes of that tax any
        information which should be included in the return;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          8

          (b) making any false statement or entry in any return,
               claim or application made, or any document or
               information required to be given, for the purposes of
               that tax;

          (c) giving any false answer, whether verbally or in
              writing, to any question or request for information
              asked or made for the purposes of that tax;

          (d) failing to inform the authority responsible for the
               collection of that tax, in the required manner, of any
               incorrect information appearing in any assessment
               made by that authority, when required to do so;

          (e) preparing or maintaining, or authorising the
              preparation or maintenance, of any false books of
              account or other records, or falsifying or authorising
              the falsification of any books of account or records;

          (f) making use of any fraud, art or contrivance, or
              authorising the use of any such fraud, art or
              contrivance;

“instrumentality forfeiture order” means an order made by a
   court or other competent authority of a foreign country, on or
   after the appointed date for that country, for the forfeiture,
   and the destruction or other disposal, of —

        (a) any drug or other substance in respect of which an
             offence against the corresponding drug law of that
             country has been committed or was intended to be
             committed; or

                                                                       [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (b) any property which was used or was intended to be
             used in connection with the commission of any
             offence against the law of that country;

                                                                       [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

“material” includes any book, document or other record in
   whatever form, and any container or article relating thereto;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

9  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

   “Monetary Authority of Singapore” means the Monetary
      Authority of Singapore established under section 3 of the
      Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970;

   “premises” includes —

   (a) a structure (whether or not movable or offshore),
        building, tent, vehicle, vessel, hovercraft or aircraft;

   (b) a place (whether or not enclosed or built upon); and

   (c) a part of premises (including premises of a kind
       referred to in paragraph (a) or (b));

   “prescribed foreign country” means a foreign country declared
      by the Minister, by an order made under section 17(1), as a
      prescribed foreign country;

   “process” means any summons, warrant, order or other
      document in respect of a criminal matter that is issued —

   (a) out of any court of Singapore or by any Judge,
        District Judge, Magistrate, the Registrar or Deputy
        Registrar or an Assistant Registrar of the Supreme
        Court, or the Registrar or a Deputy Registrar of the
        State Courts; or

   (b) out of any court of a foreign country or by any judge,
        magistrate or officer of such a court,

   as the case may be;

   “property” means money or any movable or immovable
      property, including things in action and other intangible or
      incorporeal property;

                              [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

   “serious offence” means —

   (a) any offence (being an offence against the law of
        Singapore other than a drug dealing offence) that —

   (i) is specified in the Second Schedule; or

   (ii) is punishable with imprisonment for a term
        which may extend to 4 years or more;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          10

          (b) conspiracy to commit any such offence;

          (c) inciting another to commit any such offence;

          (d) attempting to commit any such offence; or

          (e) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the
              commission of any such offence;

“Singapore confiscation order” means —

          (a) a confiscation order made under section 6 or 7 of the
               Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other Serious
               Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992;

          (b) a substitute property confiscation order made under
               section 34 of that Act; or

          (c) a confiscation order within the meaning of Part 9 of
              the Organised Crime Act 2015;

“Singapore offence” means —

          (a) a drug dealing offence; or

          (b) a serious offence;

“thing” includes material;

“VCC” means a VCC or variable capital company as defined in
   section 2(1) of the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                                 [24/2004; 8/2006; 5/2014; 23/2014; 26/2015; 44/2018]
                                                                             [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

(2) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) a reference to a foreign country includes a reference to —

          (i) a territory of that country, other than a territory that is
              itself a prescribed foreign country; and

          (ii) a ship or aircraft of, or registered in, that country; and

(b) a reference to the law of a foreign country includes a
     reference to the law in force in any part of that country.

 (3) In the definitions of “Singapore confiscation order” and
“foreign confiscation order”, a reference to an order includes an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

11  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

order, decree, direction or judgment, or any part thereof, however
described.

 (4) In the definitions of “foreign confiscation order” and
“instrumentality forfeiture order”, a reference to the appointed date
for a foreign country is a reference to —

    (a) in the case of a prescribed foreign country that was
         declared as such before 1 April 2006, the date the order
         under section 17(1) making such declaration came into
         force; or

    (b) in any other case, 1 April 2006.

                                                              [8/2006]

 (5) For the purposes of this Act, judicial proceedings that are
criminal proceedings, or proceedings before a competent authority,
instituted in a prescribed foreign country, are concluded on the
occurrence of any of the following events:

    (a) the discontinuance of the proceedings;

    (b) the satisfaction of a foreign confiscation order made in the
         proceedings, by —

    (i) payment of the amount due under the order;

    (ii) a defendant serving imprisonment in default;

    (iii) the recovery of all property liable to be recovered; or

    (iv) any other manner;

    (c) if the proceedings involve a defendant —

    (i) when the defendant is acquitted and —

    (A) there is no right of appeal against the acquittal;
         or

    (B) all rights of appeal against the acquittal have
         expired or are exhausted;

    (ii) when the defendant’s conviction is quashed and —

    (A) there is no right of appeal against the quashing
         of the conviction; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          12

          (B) all rights of appeal against the quashing of the
               conviction have expired or are exhausted;

          (iii) when a pardon in respect of the defendant has been
                granted and —

          (A) there is no right of appeal against the grant of
               the pardon; or

          (B) all rights of appeal against the grant of the
               pardon have expired or are exhausted; or

          (iv) when the court or competent authority sentences or
               otherwise deals with the defendant in respect of the
               defendant’s conviction for the offence without
               making a foreign confiscation order and —

          (A) there is no right of appeal against the sentence
               or decision; or

                     (B) all rights of appeal against the sentence or
                          decision have expired or are exhausted.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (6) For the purposes of this Act, a foreign confiscation order is
subject to appeal as long as —

(a) an appeal or further appeal is pending against —

          (i) the order; or

          (ii) if the order was made on a conviction — the
               conviction; or

(b) if paragraph (a) does not apply and there is a right of appeal
     or further appeal against the order or conviction (if the
     order was made on a conviction) — the time for bringing
     the appeal or further appeal has not expired.

                                                                    [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Meaning of “item subject to legal privilege”

 2A.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, an item is subject to legal
privilege if —

       (a) it is a communication made between a lawyer and a client,
            or a legal counsel acting as such and his or her employer, in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

13  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    connection with the lawyer giving legal advice to the client
    or the legal counsel giving legal advice to the employer, as
    the case may be;

    (b) it is a communication made between 2 or more lawyers
         acting for a client, or 2 or more legal counsel acting as such
         for their employer, in connection with one or more of the
         lawyers giving legal advice to the client or one or more of
         the legal counsel giving legal advice to the employer, as the
         case may be;

    (c) it is a communication made —

    (i) between a client, or an employer of a legal counsel,
        and another person;

    (ii) between a lawyer acting for a client and either the
         client or another person; or

    (iii) between a legal counsel acting as such for his or her
          employer and either the employer or another person,

    (c) in connection with, and for the purposes of, any legal
        proceedings (including anticipated or pending legal
        proceedings) in which the client or employer (as the case
        may be) is or may be, or was or might have been, a party;

    (d) it is an item, or a document (including its contents), that is
         enclosed with or referred to in any communication in
         paragraph (a) or (b) and that is made or prepared by any
         person in connection with a lawyer or legal counsel, or one
         or more of the lawyers or legal counsel, in either
         paragraph giving legal advice to the client or the
         employer of the legal counsel, as the case may be; or

    (e) it is an item, or a document (including its contents), that is
        enclosed with or referred to in any communication in
        paragraph (c) and that is made or prepared by any person in
        connection with, and for the purposes of, any legal
        proceedings (including anticipated or pending legal
        proceedings) in which the client or the employer of the
        legal counsel (as the case may be) is or may be, or was or
        might have been, a party,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          14

but it is not any such communication, item or document that is made,
prepared or held with the intention of furthering a criminal purpose.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

 (2) In this section —

“client”, in relation to a lawyer, includes an agent of or other
   person representing a client and, if a client has died, a
   personal representative of the client;

“employer”, in relation to a legal counsel, includes —

          (a) if the employer is one of a number of corporations
               that are related to each other under section 6 of the
               Companies Act 1967, every corporation so related as
               if the legal counsel is also employed by each of the
               related corporations;

          (b) if the employer is a public agency within the meaning
               of section 128A(6) of the Evidence Act 1893 and the
               legal counsel is required as part of his or her duties of
               employment or appointment to provide legal advice
               or assistance in connection with the application of the
               law or any form of resolution of legal dispute to any
               other public agency or agencies, the other public
               agency or agencies as if the legal counsel is also
               employed by the other public agency or each of the
               other public agencies; and

          (c) an employee or officer of the employer;

“lawyer” means an advocate and solicitor, and includes an
   interpreter or other person who works under the supervision
   of an advocate and solicitor;

“legal counsel” means a legal counsel as defined in section 3(7)
   of the Evidence Act 1893, and includes an interpreter or other
   person who works under the supervision of a legal counsel.

                                                                    [23/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
               Mutual Assistance in Criminal

15             Matters Act 2000                               2020 Ed.

Object of Act

 3. The object of this Act is to facilitate the provision and obtaining,
by Singapore, of international assistance in criminal matters,
including —

    (a) the provision and obtaining of evidence and things;

    (b) the making of arrangements for persons to give evidence or
         assist in criminal investigations;

    (c) the recovery, forfeiture or confiscation of property in
        respect of offences;

    (d) the restraining of dealings in property, or the freezing of
         assets, that may be recovered, forfeited or confiscated in
         respect of offences;

    (e) the execution of requests for search and seizure;

    (f) the location and identification of witnesses and suspects;
        and

    (g) the service of documents.

Act not to limit cooperation with international organisations,
etc.

 4.—(1) This Act does not prevent the provision or obtaining of
international assistance in criminal matters to or from the
International Criminal Police (Interpol) or any other international
organisation.

 (2) This Act does not prevent the provision or obtaining of
international assistance in criminal matters to or from any foreign
country other than assistance of a kind that may be provided or
obtained under this Act.

 (3) This Act does not prevent the provision of the following
international assistance to a foreign country in relation to a person in
Singapore, with the person’s consent:

       (a) the recording of the person’s statement by a law
            enforcement agency for the purposes of any criminal
            matter in the foreign country;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          16

       (b) the transmission of the person’s statement to the
            appropriate authority of the foreign country by the
            Attorney‑General or a law enforcement agency.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (4) In subsection (3), a “law enforcement agency” means an
authority or person charged with the duty of investigating offences or
charging offenders under any written law.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Act not authority for extradition of person

 5. This Act does not authorise the extradition or rendition, or the
arrest or detention with a view to the extradition or rendition, of any
person.

                                    PART 2
                      REQUESTS BY SINGAPORE
                   Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
Application of this Part
 6. A request for assistance under this Part may be made to any
foreign country.

Requests to be made by Attorney‑General
 7. A request by Singapore for assistance under this Part may be

made only by the Attorney‑General.

            Division 2 — Assistance in obtaining evidence
Requests for taking of evidence, etc.

 8.—(1) The Attorney‑General may request the appropriate
authority of a foreign country to arrange for —

       (a) evidence to be taken in the foreign country; and
       (b) the evidence to be sent to the Attorney‑General,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

17  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

if the Attorney‑General is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that the evidence would be relevant to any criminal
proceedings in Singapore.

 (2) The Attorney‑General may request the appropriate authority of
a foreign country —

    (a) to assist in obtaining, by search and seizure if necessary,
         any thing in the foreign country or a photograph or copy of
         the thing; and

    (b) to arrange for the thing or the photograph or copy of the
         thing to be sent to the Attorney‑General,

if the Attorney‑General is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that the thing would be relevant to a criminal matter in
Singapore.

 (3) Any evidence, thing or photograph or copy of a thing received
by the Attorney‑General pursuant to a request under subsection (1)
or (2) may, subject to the provisions of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 and the Evidence Act 1893, be admitted as evidence at any
proceedings to which the request relates.

                                                                                                           [26/2015]

 (4) In estimating the weight (if any) to be attached to a statement
contained in any thing received by the Attorney‑General pursuant to a
request made under subsection (1) which has been admitted as
evidence in any criminal proceedings to which the request relates, the
court is to have regard to —

    (a) whether it was possible to challenge the statement by
         questioning the person who made it; and

    (b) whether the law of the foreign country concerned allowed
         the parties to the criminal proceedings to be legally
         represented when the evidence was being taken.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          18

          Division 3 — Assistance in arranging attendance of
                             person in Singapore

Requests for attendance of person in Singapore

9.—(1) Where the Attorney‑General is satisfied that —

(a) there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person in a
     foreign country is capable of giving evidence or assistance
     relevant to a criminal matter involving a Singapore
     offence; and

(b) that person consents to travel to Singapore for the purpose
     of giving that evidence or assistance,

the Attorney‑General may request the appropriate authority of the
foreign country to assist in arranging for the attendance of the person
in Singapore for the purpose of giving that evidence or assistance.

 (2) The Attorney‑General may make arrangements with the
appropriate authority of the foreign country for the purposes of —

(a) the removal of the person to Singapore;

(b) the return of the person to the foreign country; and

          (c) other relevant matters.

Penalty not to be imposed for refusal to consent

 10. Where, under section 9, the Attorney‑General requests the
assistance of the appropriate authority of a foreign country in
arranging the attendance, in Singapore, of any person, the person to
whom the request relates shall not be subject to any penalty or
liability or otherwise prejudiced in law by reason only of that person’s
refusal or failure to consent to attend as requested.

Immunities and privileges

 11.—(1) A person who is in Singapore pursuant to a request made
under section 9 must not —

       (a) be detained, prosecuted or punished in Singapore for any
            offence that is alleged to have been committed, or that was
            committed, before the person’s departure from the foreign
            country concerned pursuant to the request;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

19  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    (b) be subjected to any civil suit in respect of any act or
         omission that is alleged to have occurred, or that had
         occurred, before the person’s departure from the foreign
         country pursuant to the request, being a civil suit to which
         the person could not be subjected if that person were not in
         Singapore; or

    (c) be required to give evidence or assistance in relation to any
        criminal matter in Singapore other than the criminal matter
        to which the request relates.

(2) Subsection (1) ceases to apply if —

    (a) the person has left Singapore; or

    (b) the person has had the opportunity of leaving Singapore
         and has remained in Singapore otherwise than for —

    (i) the purpose to which the request relates; or

    (ii) the purpose of giving evidence or assistance in a
         criminal matter in Singapore certified by the
         Attorney‑General, in writing, to be a criminal
         matter in which it is desirable that the person gives
         evidence or assistance.

 (3) A certificate given by the Attorney‑General under
subsection (2)(b)(ii) has effect from the day specified in the
certificate, which may be a day before the day on which the
certificate is given.

Limitation on use of statement

 12. Where —

       (a) a person is in Singapore pursuant to a request made under
            section 9; and

       (b) the person has made a statement in relation to the criminal
            matter to which the request relates or in relation to a
            criminal matter certified by the Attorney‑General under
            section 11(2)(b)(ii),

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                  Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.          Matters Act 2000                                  20

that statement —

          (c) must not be admitted or otherwise used in any prosecution
              of the person for an offence against the law of Singapore
              (other than for the offence of perjury, or contempt of court,
              in relation to the giving of that evidence) unless the
              appropriate authority of the foreign country concerned
              consents to its being so used; but

(d) may be admitted or used against him or her in any
     proceedings in Singapore —

          (i) for the purpose of impeaching his or her credibility;
              or

          (ii) as evidence of any fact stated in that statement, of
               which direct oral evidence by him or her would be
               admissible,

(d) if in giving evidence he or she makes a statement
     inconsistent with that statement.

                                                                                                 [26/2015]

            Division 4 — Assistance in enforcing Singapore
                             confiscation orders

Requests for enforcement of Singapore confiscation order

 13.—(1) The Attorney‑General may request the appropriate
authority of a foreign country to make arrangements —

       (a) for the enforcement and satisfaction of a Singapore
            confiscation order; or

       (b) where a Singapore confiscation order may be made in any
            proceedings which have been or are to be instituted in
            Singapore, to restrain dealing in any property against
            which the order may be enforced or which may be
            available to satisfy the order,

if the Attorney‑General is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds
for believing that some or all of the property concerned is located in
that country.

                                                                                                           [26/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
             Mutual Assistance in Criminal

21           Matters Act 2000                                 2020 Ed.

(2) Where —

    (a) the Singapore confiscation order requires the payment of a
         specified amount; and

    (b) property is recovered in a foreign country pursuant to a
         request under subsection (1),

that specified amount must be reduced by the value of property so
recovered.

 (3) A certificate purporting to be issued by or on behalf of the
appropriate authority of a foreign country stating —

    (a) that property has been recovered in the foreign country
         pursuant to a request under subsection (1); or

    (b) the value of the property or the date on which it was
         recovered,

is, in any judicial proceedings, admissible as evidence of the matter so
stated.

 (4) Where the value of property recovered is expressed in a
currency other than that of Singapore, the extent to which the amount
payable under the Singapore confiscation order is to be reduced under
subsection (3) is calculated on the basis of the exchange rate
prevailing on the date on which the property was recovered in the
foreign country concerned.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), a certificate purporting to be
issued by the Monetary Authority of Singapore and stating the
exchange rate prevailing on a specified date is admissible in any
judicial proceedings as evidence of the matter so stated.

     Division 5 — Assistance in locating or identifying persons

Assistance in locating or identifying persons

 14. Where the Attorney‑General is satisfied that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that there is, in any foreign
country, a person who —

       (a) is or might be concerned in or affected by; or

       (b) could give or provide evidence or assistance relevant to,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          22

any criminal matter in Singapore, the Attorney‑General may request
that country to assist in locating or, if the person’s identity is
unknown, in identifying and locating that person.

             Division 6 — Assistance in service of process

Assistance in service of process

 15. The Attorney‑General may request the appropriate authority of
a foreign country to assist in effecting service of any process where
the Attorney‑General is satisfied that, for the purposes of, or in
connection with, any criminal matter in Singapore, it is necessary or
desirable to serve that process on a person or authority in that country.

                                    PART 3

                      REQUESTS TO SINGAPORE

                   Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

Application of this Part

 16.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part —

       (a) assistance under sections 21 and 27(1) and Divisions 7 and
            8 may be provided to any foreign country; and

       (b) assistance under section 27(2) and Divisions 2 (other than
            section 21), 3, 5 and 6 may only be provided to any
            prescribed foreign country.

                                                                                                             [8/2006]

 (2) Despite subsection (1)(b) but subject to this Part, any assistance
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) may be provided to —

       (a) a foreign country that is not a prescribed foreign country;
            or

       (b) a prescribed foreign country in relation to a criminal matter
            involving a foreign offence that is not within the scope of
            the order made under section 17(1) (read with section 17(2)
            and (3)) for that country,

if the appropriate authority of that country has given an undertaking
to the Attorney‑General that that country will comply with a future

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

23  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

request by Singapore to that country for similar assistance in a
criminal matter involving an offence that corresponds to the foreign
offence for which assistance is sought.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) The foreign country mentioned in subsection (2)(a) is deemed a
prescribed foreign country for the purposes of the relevant provisions
of this Part and (if applicable) the Third Schedule.

                                                                                                 [8/2006; 23/2014]

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Prescribed foreign countries

 17.—(1) The Minister may, for the purposes of this Part, by order
declare a foreign country as a prescribed foreign country if there is in
force a treaty, memorandum of understanding or other agreement
between Singapore and that country under which that country has
agreed to provide assistance in criminal matters to Singapore.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may provide that the provisions
of this Part apply to the foreign country subject to the conditions,
exceptions or qualifications specified in the order, and in that event
the provisions of this Part apply accordingly.

 (3) The Minister may by a subsequent order vary or revoke any
order previously made under this section.

Assistance may be subject to conditions

 18. Assistance under this Part may be provided to a foreign country
subject to such conditions as the Attorney‑General determines in any
particular case or class of cases.

Requests to be made to Attorney‑General

 19.—(1) Every request by a foreign country to Singapore for
assistance under this Part must be made to the Attorney‑General.

 (2) Every request must —

       (a) specify the purpose of the request and the nature of the
            assistance being sought;

       (b) identify the person or authority that initiated the request;
            and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          24

          (c) be accompanied by —

          (i) a certificate from the appropriate authority of that
              country that the request is made in respect of a
              criminal matter within the meaning of this Act;

          (ii) a description of the nature of the criminal matter and
               a statement setting out a summary of the relevant
               facts and laws;

          (iii) where the request relates to —

          (A) the location of a person who is suspected to be
               involved in or to have benefited from the
               commission of an offence; or

          (B) the tracing of property that is suspected to be
               connected with an offence,

          (iii) the name, identity, nationality, location or
                description of that person, or the location and
                description of the property (if known) and a
                statement setting forth the basis for suspecting the
                matter referred to in sub‑paragraph (A) or (B);

          (iv) a description of the offence to which the criminal
               matter relates, including its maximum penalty;

          (v) details of the procedure that that country wishes to be
               followed by Singapore in giving effect to the request,
               including details of the manner and form in which
               any information or thing is to be supplied to that
               country pursuant to the request;

          (vi) where the request is for assistance relating to an
               ancillary criminal matter and judicial proceedings, or
               proceedings before a competent authority, to obtain a
               foreign confiscation order have not been instituted in
               that country, a statement indicating when they are
               likely to be instituted;

                                                                     [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

25  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    (vii) a statement setting out the wishes of that country
          concerning the confidentiality of the request and the
          reason for those wishes;

    (viii) details of the period within which that country
           wishes the request to be met;

    (ix) if the request involves a person travelling from
         Singapore to that country, details of allowances to
         which the person will be entitled, and of the
         arrangements for accommodation for the person
         while he or she is in that country pursuant to the
         request;

    (x) any other information required to be included with
         the request under any treaty, memorandum of
         understanding or other agreement between
         Singapore and that country; and

    (xi) any other information that may assist in giving effect
         to the request or which is required under the
         provisions of this Act.

Refusal of assistance

 20.—(1) A request by a foreign country for assistance under this
Part must be refused by the Attorney‑General if, in the opinion of the
Attorney‑General —

       (a) the appropriate authority of that country has, in respect of
            that request, failed to comply with the terms of any treaty,
            memorandum of understanding or other agreement
            between Singapore and that country;

       (b) the request relates to the investigation, prosecution or
            punishment of a person for an offence that is, or is by
            reason of the circumstances in which it is alleged to have
            been committed or was committed, an offence of a political
            character;

       (c) the request relates to the investigation, prosecution or
            punishment of a person in respect of an act or omission
            that, if it had occurred in Singapore, would have

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          26

          constituted an offence under the military law applicable in
          Singapore but not also under the ordinary criminal law of
          Singapore;

(d) there are substantial grounds for believing that the request
     was made for the purpose of investigating, prosecuting,
     punishing or otherwise causing prejudice to a person on
     account of the person’s race, religion, sex, ethnic origin,
     nationality or political opinions;

          (e) the request relates to the investigation, prosecution or
              punishment of a person for an offence in a case where the
              person —

          (i) has been convicted, acquitted or pardoned by a court
               or other competent authority of that country, and all
               rights of appeal against the conviction, acquittal or
               pardon have expired or are exhausted; or

                                                                    [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          (ii) has undergone the punishment provided by the law
               of that country,

          (e) in respect of that offence or of another offence constituted
              by the same act or omission as the firstmentioned offence;

          (f) the offence to which the request relates is not an offence of
              sufficient gravity;

(g) the thing requested for is of insufficient importance to the
     investigation or could reasonably be obtained by other
     means;

(h) it is contrary to public interest to provide the assistance; or

                                                                    [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

(i) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          (j) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          (k) the provision of the assistance could prejudice a criminal
              matter in Singapore.

                                                                                                          [23/2014]

                                                                              [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

27  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

 (2) A request by a foreign country for assistance under this Part may
be refused by the Attorney‑General —

    (a) pursuant to the terms of any treaty, memorandum of
         understanding or other agreement between Singapore and
         that country;

    (b) if, in the opinion of the Attorney‑General, the provision of
         the assistance would, or would be likely to, prejudice the
         safety of any person (whether in Singapore or elsewhere);

    (c) if, in the opinion of the Attorney‑General, the provision of
        the assistance would impose an excessive burden on the
        resources of Singapore; or

       (d) if, in the case of any assistance under sections 21 and 27(1)
            and Divisions 7 and 8, that country is not declared as a
            prescribed foreign country under section 17 and the
            appropriate authority of that country fails to give an
            undertaking to the Attorney‑General that that country will
            comply with a future request by Singapore to that country
            for similar assistance in a criminal matter involving an
            offence that corresponds to the foreign offence for which
            assistance is sought.

                                                                                                             [8/2006]

 (2A) A request by a foreign country for assistance to obtain any
thing under section 22 or 23 or Division 6 must be refused by the
Attorney‑General if the appropriate authority of that country —

    (a) fails to undertake that the thing will not be used for a matter
         other than the criminal matter in respect of which the
         request was made, except with the consent of the
         Attorney‑General; or

    (b) fails to undertake to do any of the following, upon
         conclusion of the criminal matter in respect of which the
         request was made, if the Attorney‑General so requests:

    (i) return the thing to the Attorney‑General;

    (ii) dispose of the thing;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          28

             (iii) otherwise handle the thing in accordance with the
                   Attorney‑General’s request.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), a request by a foreign country
for assistance under Division 2, 5 or 6 must be refused if, in the
opinion of the Attorney‑General, the request relates to the
investigation, prosecution or punishment of a person in respect of
any conduct which, if it had occurred in Singapore, would not have
constituted a Singapore offence.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to a request by a foreign country
for assistance under Division 2 if the request relates to the
investigation, prosecution or punishment of a person in respect of a
foreign tax evasion offence of that country.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

 (5) Subsection (3) does not apply to a request by a foreign country
for assistance under Division 5 or 6 if —

(a) the request relates to the investigation, prosecution or
     punishment of a person in respect of a foreign tax evasion
     offence of that country; and

(b) the Attorney‑General is satisfied that an arrangement
     having effect under section 49 or 105BA of the Income
     Tax Act 1947, or an international tax compliance
     agreement as defined in section 105I of that Act, has
     been made with the government of that foreign country.

                                                                                                 [23/2014]

            Division 2 — Assistance in obtaining evidence

Taking of evidence for criminal proceedings

 21.—(1) Where the appropriate authority of a foreign country
makes a request that evidence be taken in Singapore for the purposes
of any criminal proceedings pending in a court in the foreign country,
the Attorney‑General may, by written notice, authorise a Magistrate
to take the evidence.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

29  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

 (2) Subject to any conditions that the Attorney‑General may specify
in the written notice made under subsection (1), upon receipt of that
notice, the Magistrate is to —

    (a) take the evidence of each witness appearing before the
         Magistrate to give evidence in relation to the criminal
         matter as if the witness were giving evidence on a charge
         against a person for an offence against the law of
         Singapore;

    (b) cause the evidence to be reduced in writing and certify at
         the end of that writing that the evidence was taken by the
         Magistrate; and

       (c) cause the writing, so certified, to be sent to the
            Attorney‑General.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) The proceedings may be conducted in the presence or absence
of the person to whom the criminal proceedings in the foreign country
relates or of the person’s legal representative, if any.

 (4) The certificate referred to in subsection (2) must state whether
the person to whom the criminal proceedings in the foreign country
relates or the person’s legal representative (if any) was present at the
proceedings.

 (5) The laws for the time being in force with respect to the
compelling of persons to attend before a Magistrate, and to give
evidence, answer questions and produce documents, upon the hearing
of a charge against a person for an offence against the law of
Singapore apply, so far as they are capable of application, with
respect to the compelling of persons to attend before a Magistrate,
and to give evidence, answer questions and produce documents, for
the purposes of this section.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, the person to whom the
criminal proceedings in the foreign country relates is competent, but
not compellable, to give evidence.

 (7) A person who is required under this section to give evidence for
the purposes of any criminal proceedings in a foreign country must

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          30

not be required to answer any question that the person could not be
compelled to answer in those proceedings in that country.

 (8) A duly certified foreign law immunity certificate is admissible
in proceedings under this section as prima facie evidence of the
matters stated in the certificate.

 (8A) The Attorney‑General may transmit the certified evidence
referred to in subsection (2) to the appropriate authority that
requested that evidence.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (9) Evidence taken under this section is not admissible in evidence,
and must not be otherwise used, for the purposes of any judicial
proceedings, disciplinary proceedings, or other proceedings, in
Singapore except a prosecution of the person who gave that
evidence for the offence of perjury, or contempt of court, in respect
of that evidence.

Taking statements for criminal investigations

 21A.—(1) Where the appropriate authority of a foreign country
makes a request that a statement be taken from a person (specified in
the request) in Singapore for the purposes of any criminal
investigation in the foreign country, the Attorney‑General may, by
written notice, direct an authorised officer to take the statement from
the person.

 (2) Subject to any conditions that the Attorney‑General may specify
in the written notice made under subsection (1), upon receipt of the
written notice, the authorised officer must do all of the following:

       (a) require the person to attend before the authorised officer;

       (b) examine orally the person;

       (c) record the statement made by the person —

               (i) in writing; or

              (ii) in the form of an audiovisual recording;

       (d) if the statement is recorded in writing and —

               (i) if the person understands English — read over the
                   statement to the person; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

31  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    (ii) if the person does not understand English — ensure
         that the statement is interpreted for the person in a
         language that the person understands;

    (e) require the person to sign the statement, if it is in writing;

    (f) send the statement to the Attorney‑General.

 (3) If the person fails to attend as required under subsection (2)(a),
the authorised officer may report the matter to a Magistrate who may
then issue a warrant ordering the person to attend before the
authorised officer.

 (4) The Attorney‑General may transmit a statement mentioned in
subsection (2)(f) to the appropriate authority that requested that
statement.

 (5) A statement taken under this section is not admissible in
evidence, and must not be otherwise used, for the purposes of any
judicial proceedings, disciplinary proceedings, or other proceedings,
in Singapore.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Production orders for criminal matters

 22.—(1) Where a request is made by the appropriate authority of a
prescribed foreign country that any particular thing or description of
thing in Singapore be produced for the purposes of any criminal
matter in that country, the Attorney‑General or a person duly
appointed by the Attorney‑General may apply to the court for an
order under subsection (3).

 (2) An application for an order under subsection (3) in relation to
any thing in the possession of a financial institution or VCC must be
made only to the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                [44/2018; 40/2019]

 (3) If, on such an application, the court is satisfied that the
conditions in subsection (4) are fulfilled, it may make an order that
the person who appears to the court to be in possession of the thing to
which the application relates must —

       (a) produce the thing to an authorised officer for the authorised
            officer to take away; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          32

(b) give an authorised officer access to the thing,

within 7 days of the date of the order or any other period that the court
considers appropriate.

(4) The conditions mentioned in subsection (3) are —

(a) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
     specified person has carried on or benefited from a foreign
     offence;

(b) that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
     thing to which the application relates —

          (i) is likely to be of substantial value (whether by itself
              or together with another thing) to the criminal matter
              in respect of which the application was made; and

          (ii) does not consist of or include items subject to legal
               privilege; and

          (c) that the court is satisfied that it is not contrary to the public
              interest for the thing to be produced or that access to it be
              given.

 (5) The proceedings in which the order mentioned in subsection (3)
is made are to be conducted in the absence of the person to whom the
criminal proceedings in the foreign country relates or of the person’s
legal representative (if any), unless the court orders otherwise.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (6) A person who is required by an order under this section to
produce or make available any thing for the purposes of any criminal
proceedings in a foreign country must not be required to produce any
thing that the person could not be compelled to produce in the
proceedings in that country.

 (7) A duly certified foreign law immunity certificate is admissible
in proceedings under this section as prima facie evidence of the
matters stated in the certificate.

 (8) If the court hears oral arguments for any proceedings under
subsection (3), those proceedings must be heard in private.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

33  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

Supplementary provisions regarding production orders

 23.—(1) Where a court orders a person under section 22 to give an
authorised officer access to any thing on any premises, it may, on the
same or a subsequent application of an authorised officer, order any
person who appears to the authorised officer to be entitled to grant
entry to the premises to allow an authorised officer to enter the
premises to obtain access to the thing.

 (2) Where any material to which an order under section 22 relates
consists of information contained in or accessible by means of any
data equipment —

    (a) an order under section 22(3)(a) has effect as an order to
         produce the material in a form which can be taken away
         and which is visible and legible; and

    (b) an order under section 22(3)(b) has effect as an order to
         give access to the material in a form which is visible and
         legible.

 (3) A person is not excused from producing or making available
any thing by an order under section 22 on the ground that —

    (a) the production or making available of the thing might tend
         to incriminate the person or make the person liable to a
         penalty; or

    (b) the production or making available of the thing would be in
         breach of an obligation (whether imposed by law or
         otherwise) of the person not to disclose the existence of the
         contents of the thing.

(4) An order under section 22 —

    (a) does not confer any right to the production of, or of access
         to, items subject to legal privilege; and

    (b) has effect despite any obligations as to secrecy or other
         restrictions upon the disclosure of information imposed by
         statute or otherwise.

 (5) An authorised officer may photograph or make copies of any
thing produced or to which access is granted pursuant to an order
made under section 22.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          34

 (6) Where an authorised officer takes possession of any thing under
an order made under section 22 or takes any photograph or makes any
copy of the thing under subsection (5), the officer may retain the
thing, photograph or copy for up to one month pending a written
direction from the Attorney‑General as to the manner in which the
thing, photograph or copy is to be dealt with (which may include a
direction that the thing, photograph or copy be sent to the appropriate
authority of the foreign country concerned).

(7) Rules of Court may provide for —

(a) the discharge and variation of orders under section 22; and

(b) proceedings relating to those orders.

 (8) In this section, “data equipment” means any equipment
which —

(a) automatically processes information;

(b) automatically records or stores information;

          (c) can be used to cause information to be automatically
              recorded, stored or otherwise processed on other
              equipment (wherever situated); or

(d) can be used to retrieve information whether the
     information is recorded or stored in the equipment itself
     or in other equipment (wherever situated).

Immunities

 24.—(1) No civil or criminal action, other than a criminal action for
an offence under section 25, shall lie against any person for —

       (a) producing or giving access to any thing if the person had
            produced or given access to the thing in good faith in
            compliance with an order made against the person under
            section 22; or

       (b) doing or omitting to do any act if the person had done or
            omitted to do the act in good faith and as a result of
            complying with such an order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

35  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who complies with an order made under section 22
is not to be treated as being in breach of any restriction upon the
disclosure of information or thing imposed by law, contract or rules of
professional conduct.

Failure to comply with production order

 25. A person who —

       (a) without reasonable excuse contravenes or fails to comply
            with an order under section 22; or

       (b) in purported compliance with that order, produces or
            makes available to an authorised officer any material
            known to the person to be false or misleading in a material
            particular without —

               (i) indicating to the authorised officer that the material
                   is false or misleading and the part that is false or
                   misleading; or

              (ii) providing correct information to the authorised
                   officer if the person is in possession of, or can
                   reasonably acquire, the correct information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

   Division 3 — Assistance in arranging attendance of person in
                                foreign country

Requests for attendance of person in foreign country

 26.—(1) The appropriate authority of a prescribed foreign country
may request the Attorney‑General to assist in arranging the
attendance, in that country, of a person in Singapore for the
purposes of giving or providing evidence or assistance in relation
to a criminal matter in that country.

 (2) Where, on receipt of a request under subsection (1), the
Attorney‑General is satisfied that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          36

(a) the request relates to a criminal matter in the foreign
     country involving a foreign offence;

(b) there are reasonable grounds to believe that the person
     concerned is capable of giving or providing evidence or
     assistance relevant to the criminal matter;

          (c) the person concerned has freely consented to attend as
              requested;

(d) the person is not —

          (i) a prisoner within the meaning of section 2 of the
              Prisons Act 1933; or

          (ii) otherwise under detention in a prescribed institution;
               and

          (e) the appropriate authority has given adequate undertakings
              in respect of the matters mentioned in subsection (3),

the Attorney‑General may assist in making arrangements for the
travel of the person to the foreign country.

 (3) The matters in relation to which undertakings are to be given by
the appropriate authority are —

(a) that the person must not —

          (i) be detained, prosecuted or punished for any offence
              against the law of the foreign country that is alleged
              to have been committed, or that was committed,
              before the person’s departure from Singapore;

          (ii) be subjected to any civil suit in respect of any act or
               omission of the person that is alleged to have
               occurred, or that had occurred, before the person’s
               departure from Singapore, being a civil suit to which
               the person could not be subjected if that person were
               not in the foreign country; or

          (iii) be required to give evidence or assistance in relation
                to any criminal matter in the foreign country other
                than the criminal matter to which the request relates,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                  Mutual Assistance in Criminal

37                Matters Act 2000                            2020 Ed.

    (a) unless —

    (iv) the person has left the foreign country; or

    (v) the person has had the opportunity of leaving the
         foreign country and has remained in the foreign
         country otherwise than for the purpose of giving or
         providing evidence or assistance in relation to the
         criminal matter to which the request relates;

    (b) that any evidence given by the person in the criminal
         proceedings to which the request relates (if any) will be
         inadmissible or otherwise disqualified from use in the
         prosecution of the person for an offence against the law of
         the foreign country, other than for the offence of perjury, or
         contempt of court, in relation to the giving of that evidence;

    (c) that the person will be returned to Singapore in accordance
        with arrangements agreed to by the Attorney‑General; and

    (d) any other matters that the Attorney‑General thinks
         appropriate.

 (4) Where, under this section, the appropriate authority of a foreign
country requests the assistance of the Attorney‑General in arranging
the attendance, in that country, of any person, the person to whom the
request relates must not be subject to any penalty or liability or
otherwise prejudiced in law by reason only of that person’s refusal or
failure to consent to attend as requested.

   Division 4 — Custody of persons in transit through Singapore

Custody of persons in transit

 27.—(1) A person who is in custody in a foreign country and has
consented to give evidence or assistance in relation to a criminal
matter in another foreign country may be transported through
Singapore, in the custody of another person, to that other foreign
country, if the firstmentioned foreign country gives prior notice of
this to the Attorney‑General.

 (2) Where one of the foreign countries is a prescribed foreign
country, the person being transported through Singapore in custody

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
             Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.     Matters Act 2000                                       38

may, if an aircraft, vessel or train by which the person is being
transported lands or calls in Singapore, be kept in such custody in
Singapore with such authorised officer as the Attorney‑General
directs in writing until the person’s transportation is continued.

(3) Where —

(a) a person is being held in custody pursuant to a direction
     under subsection (2); and

(b) the person’s transportation is not, in the opinion of the
     Attorney‑General, continued within a reasonable time,

the Attorney‑General may direct that the person be transported in
custody to the foreign country from which the person was first
transported, and such direction is sufficient authority for that person’s
removal from Singapore by any means that the Attorney‑General
directs.

Escape from custody

 28.—(1) Any person who, being a person held in custody pursuant
to a direction under section 27(2), escapes from custody shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable upon conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) Any police officer may, without warrant, arrest a person if the
police officer has reasonable grounds to believe that the person was a
person mentioned in subsection (1).

 (3) A person who has been arrested must be returned to custody in
accordance with the direction.

    Division 5 — Enforcement of foreign confiscation order, etc.

Requests for enforcement of foreign confiscation order

 29.—(1) The appropriate authority of a prescribed foreign country
may request the Attorney‑General to assist in —

       (a) the enforcement and satisfaction of a foreign confiscation
            order, made in any judicial proceedings or proceedings
            before a competent authority instituted in that country,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

39  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

            against property that is reasonably believed to be located in
            Singapore; or

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

       (b) where a foreign confiscation order may be made in judicial
            proceedings or proceedings before a competent authority
            which have been or are to be instituted in that country, the
            restraining of dealing in any property that is reasonably
            believed to be located in Singapore and against which the
            order may be enforced or which may be available to satisfy
            the order.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (1A) A request mentioned in subsection (1)(a) may specify that the
property must not be realised in Singapore for the enforcement and
satisfaction of the foreign confiscation order.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) On receipt of a request under subsection (1), the
Attorney‑General may —

    (a) in the case of subsection (1)(a) — act or authorise the
         taking of action under section 30 and the provisions of the
         Third Schedule; or

    (b) in the case of subsection (1)(b) — act or authorise the
         taking of action under the provisions of the
         Third Schedule,

and in that event the provisions of the Third Schedule apply
accordingly.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

 (3) For the purposes of this section and the provisions of the
Third Schedule, judicial proceedings that are criminal proceedings
are instituted in a prescribed foreign country when a person is
produced and charged in court with a foreign offence.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

Registration of foreign confiscation order

 30.—(1) The Attorney‑General or a person authorised by the
Attorney‑General may apply to the General Division of the High
Court for the registration of a foreign confiscation order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          40

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may, on an application
referred to in subsection (1), register the foreign confiscation order if
it is satisfied —

(a) that the order is in force and not subject to further appeal in
     the foreign country;

(b) where a person affected by the order did not appear in the
     proceedings, that the person received notice of the
     proceedings in sufficient time to enable the person to
     defend them; and

      (c) that enforcing the order in Singapore would not be contrary
           to the interests of justice.

                                                                                                         [40/2019]

(3) In subsection (2), “appeal” includes —

(a) any proceedings by way of discharging or setting aside a
     judgment; and

(b) an application for a new trial or a stay of execution.

 (4) The General Division of the High Court is to cancel the
registration of a foreign confiscation order if it appears to the General
Division of the High Court that the order has been satisfied by
payment of the amount due under it or by the person against whom it
was made serving imprisonment in default of payment or other
means.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (5) Where an amount of money (if any) payable or remaining to be
paid under a foreign confiscation order registered in the General
Division of the High Court under this section is expressed in a
currency other than that of Singapore, the amount must, for the
purpose of any action taken in relation to that order, be converted into
the currency of Singapore on the basis of the exchange rate prevailing
on the date of registration of the order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), a certificate issued by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore and stating the exchange rate
prevailing on a specified date is admissible in any judicial
proceedings as evidence of the facts so stated.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

41  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

Proof of orders, etc., of prescribed foreign country

 31.—(1) For the purposes of sections 29 and 30 and the
Third Schedule —

    (a) any order made or judgment given by a court or other
         competent authority of a prescribed foreign country —

    (i) purporting to bear the seal of that court or competent
        authority; or

    (ii) purporting to be signed by —

    (A) a person in his or her capacity as a judge,
         magistrate or officer of the court; or

    (B) an officer of the competent authority,

       (a) is deemed without further proof to have been duly sealed,
            or signed by that person, as the case may be; and

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

       (b) a document, duly authenticated, that purports to be a copy
            of any order made or judgment given by a court or other
            competent authority of a prescribed foreign country is
            deemed without further proof to be a true copy.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) A document is duly authenticated for the purposes of
subsection (1)(b) if it purports to be certified —

    (a) by a person in his or her capacity as a judge, magistrate or
         officer of the court of that country;

    (b) by an officer of the competent authority of that country; or

    (c) by or on behalf of the appropriate authority of that country.

                                                                        [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Evidence in relation to proceedings and orders in prescribed
foreign country

 32.—(1) For the purposes of sections 29 and 30 and the
Third Schedule, a certificate purporting to be issued by or on
behalf of the appropriate authority of a prescribed foreign country
stating that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          42

(a) judicial proceedings have been instituted and have not
     been concluded, or that judicial proceedings are to be
     instituted, in that country;

(aa) proceedings before a competent authority have been
      instituted and have not been concluded, or that
      proceedings before a competent authority are to be
      instituted, in that country;

                                                                       [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (b) a foreign confiscation order is in force and is not subject to
      appeal;

          (c) all or a certain amount of the sum payable under a foreign
              confiscation order remains unpaid in that country, or that
              other property recoverable under a foreign confiscation
              order remains unrecovered in that country;

(d) a person has been notified of any judicial proceedings, or
     any proceedings before a competent authority, in
     accordance with the law of that country; or

                                                                    [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

(e) an order (however described) made by a court or other
     competent authority of that country has the purpose of —

          (i) recovering, forfeiting or confiscating —

          (A) any payment or other reward received in
               connection with an offence against the law of
               that country, or the value of any such payment
               or reward; or

          (B) any property derived or realised, directly or
               indirectly, from any payment or other reward
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (A), or the value
               of any such property; or

          (ii) forfeiting, and destroying or otherwise disposing
               of —

          (A) any drug or other substance in respect of which
               an offence against the corresponding drug law
               of that country has been committed; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

43  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    (B) any property which was used in connection
         with the commission of any offence against the
         law of that country,

is, in any proceedings in a court, admissible as evidence of the facts so
stated.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) In any such proceedings, a statement contained in a duly
authenticated document, which purports to have been received in
evidence or to be a copy of a document so received, or to set out or
summarise evidence given in proceedings before a court or other
competent authority of a prescribed foreign country, is admissible as
evidence of any fact stated therein.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) A document is duly authenticated for the purposes of
subsection (2) if it purports to be certified by any person in his or
her capacity as a judge, magistrate or officer of the court in the
prescribed foreign country, or by or on behalf of an appropriate
authority of that country.

 (4) Nothing in this section prejudices the admissibility of any
evidence, whether contained in any document or otherwise, which is
admissible apart from this section.

             Division 6 — Assistance in search and seizure

Request for search and seizure

 33.—(1) The appropriate authority of a prescribed foreign country
may request the Attorney‑General to assist in obtaining any thing by
search or seizure.

 (2) Where, on receipt of a request under subsection (1), the
Attorney‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) the request relates to a criminal matter in that country in
            respect of a foreign offence; and

       (b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the thing to
            which the request relates is relevant to the criminal matter
            and is located in Singapore,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          44

the Attorney‑General, or an authorised officer directed by the
Attorney‑General, may apply to the court for a warrant under
section 34 in respect of specified premises.

 (3) An application for a warrant under section 34 in respect of any
thing in the possession of a financial institution or VCC must be made
to the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                [44/2018; 40/2019]

 (4) An application for a warrant under section 34 in respect of any
thing in the possession of a financial institution or VCC must not be
made unless that thing can be particularised.

                                                                                                           [44/2018]

Search warrants

 34.—(1) On an application under section 33, the court may issue a
warrant authorising an authorised officer to enter and search the
specified premises if the court is satisfied that —

       (a) an order made under section 22 in relation to any thing on
            the premises has not been complied with; or

       (b) the conditions in subsection (2) are fulfilled.

 (2) The conditions mentioned in subsection (1)(b) are —

       (a) that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a
            specified person has carried on or has benefited from a
            foreign offence;

       (b) that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
            thing to which the application relates —

               (i) is likely to be of substantial value (whether by itself
                   or together with another thing) to the criminal matter
                   in respect of which the application is made; and

              (ii) does not consist of or include items subject to legal
                   privilege; and

       (c) that the court is satisfied that it is not contrary to the public
            interest for the warrant to be issued.

                                                                                                             [6/2006]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

45  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

 (3) A warrant issued under this section is subject to any conditions
that the court may specify in the warrant.

Additional powers of person executing search warrant, etc.

 35.—(1) Where an authorised officer has entered premises in the
execution of a warrant issued under section 34, he or she may seize
and retain any thing that is specified in the warrant, other than items
subject to legal privilege.

 (2) An authorised officer may photograph or make a copy of any
thing seized under subsection (1).

 (3) Where an authorised officer seizes, photographs or makes a
copy of any thing under a warrant, he or she may retain the thing,
photograph or copy for up to one month pending a written direction
from the Attorney‑General as to the manner in which the thing,
photograph or copy is to be dealt with (which may include a direction
that that thing, photograph or copy be sent to the appropriate authority
of the foreign country concerned).

 (4) Any person who hinders or obstructs an authorised officer in the
execution of a warrant issued under section 34 shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

Immunities

 36.—(1) No civil or criminal action shall lie against any person
for —

       (a) producing or giving access to any thing if the person had
            produced or given access to the thing in good faith in
            compliance with a warrant issued under section 34; or

       (b) doing or omitting to do any act if the person had done or
            omitted to do the act in good faith and as a result of
            complying with such a warrant.

 (2) A person who complies with a warrant issued under section 34
is not to be treated as being in breach of any restriction upon the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          46

disclosure of information or thing imposed by law, contract or rules of
professional conduct.

     Division 7 — Assistance in locating or identifying persons

Assistance in locating or identifying persons

 37.—(1) The appropriate authority of a foreign country may
request the Attorney‑General to assist in locating, or identifying
and locating, a person who is believed to be in Singapore.

 (2) Where, on the receipt of a request made under subsection (1),
the Attorney‑General is satisfied that —

       (a) the request relates to a criminal matter in the foreign
            country;

       (b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the person
            to whom the request relates —

               (i) is or might be concerned in, or could give or provide
                   evidence or assistance relevant to, the criminal
                   matter; and

              (ii) is in Singapore,

the Attorney‑General may authorise, in writing, assistance in
accordance with this section.

 (3) Where, in relation to a request made under subsection (1), the
Attorney‑General authorises assistance in accordance with this
section, the Attorney‑General must forward the request to the
appropriate agency in Singapore.

 (4) The agency mentioned in subsection (3) must use its best
endeavours to locate or identify and locate (as the case may be) the
person to whom the request relates, and must advise the
Attorney‑General of the outcome of those endeavours.

 (5) On receipt of such advice, the Attorney‑General must inform
the appropriate authority of the result of the inquiries made pursuant
to the request.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

47  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    Division 8 — Assistance in service of process

Assistance in service of process

 38.—(1) The appropriate authority of a foreign country may
request the Attorney‑General to assist in effecting the service of
process on a person in Singapore.

 (2) Where, on receipt of a request made under subsection (1), the
Attorney‑General is satisfied —

    (a) that the request relates to a criminal matter in that country;

    (b) that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the
         person to be served is in Singapore;

    (c) that the country has provided sufficient details of the
        consequences of a failure to comply with such process; and

    (d) where the request relates to the service of a summons to
         appear as a witness in that country, that that country has
         given an adequate undertaking in respect of the matters
         specified in section 39,

the Attorney‑General may authorise assistance in accordance with
this section.

 (3) Where service is authorised under subsection (2), the
Attorney‑General must direct an authorised officer or a process
server of the Supreme Court to arrange service, and in such a case the
authorised officer or process server must —

    (a) use his or her best endeavours to have the process
         served —

    (i) in accordance with procedures proposed in the
        request; or

    (ii) if those procedures would be unlawful or
         inappropriate in Singapore, or if no procedures are
         so proposed, in accordance with the Rules of Court;
         and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          48

(b) if the document —

          (i) is served — transmit to the Attorney‑General for
              transmission to the appropriate authority a certificate
              by the Registrar of the Supreme Court as to the
              service; or

          (ii) is not served — transmit to the Attorney‑General for
               transmission to the appropriate authority a statement
               by the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the reasons
               which prevented the service.

(4) Rules of Court may provide for —

(a) the documents and other information to accompany the
     service of process; and

(b) the form of the certificate mentioned in subsection (3)(b)(i)
     and the statement mentioned in subsection (3)(b)(ii).

Undertaking by foreign country

 39. Where, pursuant to a request under section 38, the appropriate
authority of a foreign country requests the assistance of the
Attorney‑General in effecting the service on any person of a
summons to appear as a witness in that country, the
Attorney‑General must, before authorising assistance in accordance
with that section, obtain from the appropriate authority an
undertaking that that person will not be subject to any penalty or
liability or otherwise prejudiced in law by reason only of that person’s
refusal or failure to accept or comply with the summons, despite any
contrary statement in the summons.

Penalty not to be imposed for failure to comply with summons

 40. Where, pursuant to a request under section 38, the appropriate
authority of a foreign country requests the assistance of the
Attorney‑General in effecting the service on any person of a
summons to appear as a witness in that country, that person must
not be subject to any penalty or liability or otherwise prejudiced in
law by reason only of that person’s refusal or failure to accept or
comply with the summons, despite any contrary statement in the
summons.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

49  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Attorney‑General to give notice to Minister

 41.—(1) Unless the Minister otherwise directs, the
Attorney‑General must cause a notice to be given to the Minister
of every Singapore request and foreign request.

(2) A notice under subsection (1) must —

    (a) in the case of a Singapore request — be given before the
         request is made;

    (b) in the case of a foreign request — be given as soon as
         reasonably practicable after receipt of the request and
         before the request is processed; and

    (c) be accompanied by —

    (i) a copy of the request;

    (ii) copies of all relevant documents;

    (iii) a summary of the material facts supporting the
          request; and

    (iv) any other matters and information that the Minister
         may require.

 (3) Upon receipt of a notice under subsection (1), the Minister may,
if he or she thinks that —

    (a) the taking of any action in relation to a Singapore request
         or foreign request is in the interests of the sovereignty,
         security or public order of Singapore — instruct the
         Attorney‑General to take such action, and the
         Attorney‑General must, unless prohibited by any
         provision of this Act, comply with the instruction; or

                                                                        [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

    (b) the taking of any action in relation to a Singapore request
         or foreign request is against the interests of the sovereignty,
         security or public order of Singapore — instruct the
         Attorney‑General not to take such action, and the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.               Matters Act 2000                             50

          Attorney‑General must, despite the provisions of this Act,
          comply with the instruction.

 (4) Where a foreign request has been complied with, the
Attorney‑General must, if the Minister so requires, provide the
Minister with particulars of any evidence, documents or other
assistance provided pursuant to the request.

(5) In this section —

“foreign request” means a request from a foreign country to
   Singapore under Part 3 for assistance in a criminal matter;

“Minister” includes a public officer authorised by the Minister
   for the purposes of this section;

                                                                       [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

“Singapore request” means a request by Singapore to a foreign
   country under Part 2 for assistance in a criminal matter.

Authentication of documents

 42.—(1) Subject to sections 13, 31 and 32 and the rules of law
relating to the admissibility of evidence, any document that is
obtained, provided, or produced pursuant to a request made under this
Act and that is duly authenticated is admissible in evidence in any
criminal proceedings.

 (2) A document is duly authenticated for the purposes of
subsection (1) if —

       (a) it purports to be signed or certified by a judge, magistrate,
            or official in or of a foreign country; and

       (b) either —

               (i) it is verified by the oath of a witness, or of an official
                   of the government of that country; or

              (ii) it purports to be sealed with an official seal or public
                   seal, or stamped with an official stamp, of that
                   country, or of a Minister, a department or an official
                   of the government, of that country.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

51  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

 (3) Nothing in this section prevents the proof of any matter, or the
admission in evidence of any document, in accordance with any other
provision of this Act or any other law of Singapore.

Delegation

 43. The Attorney‑General may delegate to a public officer any of
his or her powers under this Act.

Regulations

 44.—(1) The Minister may make any regulations that are necessary
or expedient to give full effect to or for carrying out the provisions of
this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made —

       (a) to prescribe anything that is required or permitted to be
            prescribed under this Act; and

       (b) to provide that any person who contravenes the regulations
            shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
            conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
            both.

Regulations for provision of assistance to certain bodies

 45.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the provision by
Singapore of assistance in criminal matters to any prescribed
international criminal tribunal in order to discharge or facilitate the
discharge of any obligation binding on Singapore by virtue of its
being a member of an international organisation or a party to an
international agreement.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may —

       (a) provide for the application of the provisions of Part 3 to the
            international criminal tribunal subject to any modifications
            that may be specified in the regulations, including the
            provision of different or additional grounds for refusing
            assistance, providing assistance in respect of different

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          52

          offences, and a different manner of providing any form of
          assistance;

(b) despite the provisions of the Act, provide for forms of
     assistance other than those set out in Part 3, including
     assistance by way of arresting any accused person, keeping
     him or her in custody and surrendering him or her to the
     international criminal tribunal;

          (c) confer and impose on authorised officers powers and
              duties which may be necessary or expedient for the
              purpose of providing any assistance; and

(d) provide that any person who contravenes the regulations
     shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
     conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
     both.

Rules of Court

 46. Rules of Court may provide for the practice and procedure in
relation to proceedings under this Act and the Third Schedule,
including the summoning of witnesses, the production of documents,
the taking of evidence on oath, the administering of oaths, the
payment of expenses and allowances of witnesses.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

Amendment of Schedules

 47. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend all or
any of the First, Second and Third Schedules.

                                                                                                           [23/2014]

              FIRST SCHEDULE                 Sections 2(1) and 47

          DRUG DEALING OFFENCES

               Offence          Description

Corruption, Drug Trafficking .
and Other Serious Crimes

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

53  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                              Description
(Confiscation of Benefits)
Act 1992                        Assisting another to retain benefits of drug
                                dealing
    1. Section 50 (previously
        section 43 (Cap. 65A,   Acquiring, possessing, using, concealing or
        2000 Revised Edition))  transferring benefits of drug dealing

    2. Section 53 (previously   Trafficking in controlled drugs
        section 46 (Cap. 65A,   Manufacture of controlled drugs
        2000 Revised Edition))  Import and export of controlled drugs
                                Cultivation of cannabis, opium and coca
Misuse of Drugs Act 1973        plants
    3. Section 5                Manufacture, supply, possession, import or
    4. Section 6                export of equipment, materials or substances
    5. Section 7                useful for manufacture of controlled drugs
    6. Section 10               Person in charge of place or premises
                                permitting drug activities at that place or
    7. Section 10A              premises
                                Arranging or planning gatherings for drug
    8. Section 11               activities
                                Introducing drug trafficker to another person
    9. Section 11A              Instructing person to cultivate cannabis, etc.,
                                or to manufacture or consume controlled
   10. Section 11C              drugs, etc.
   11. Section 11D(1)           Disseminating or publishing information on
                                the cultivation of cannabis, etc., or the
   12. Section 11D(2)           manufacture or consumption of controlled
                                drugs, etc.
   13. Section 11E              Causing or procuring young person or
                                vulnerable person to commit certain offences
 13A. Section 11F               Trafficking in psychoactive substance

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.               Matters Act 2000                             54

                       FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

              Offence                           Description
13B. Section 11G
13C. Section 11H            Manufacture of psychoactive substance
13D. Section 11L
                            Import and export of psychoactive substance
13E. Section 11M
13F. Section 11O            Person in charge of place or premises
13G. Section 11P(1)         permitting or allowing psychoactive
13H. Section 11P(2)         substance activities at that place or premises

 13I. Section 11Q           Arranging or planning gatherings for
  14. Section 13            psychoactive substance activities

                            Introducing psychoactive substance
                            trafficker to another person

                            Instructing person to manufacture or
                            consume psychoactive substance, etc.

                            Disseminating or publishing information on
                            the manufacture or consumption of
                            psychoactive substance, etc.

                            Causing or procuring young person or
                            vulnerable person to commit certain offences

                            Abetting or procuring commission of drug
                            offence outside Singapore

                                                [S 475/2024 wef 01/06/2024]
                                         [23/2014; S 349/2015; S 525/2019]

                       SECOND SCHEDULE                Sections 2(1) and 47

                         SERIOUS OFFENCES

               Offence                          Description
Animals and Birds Act 1965
                            .
       1. Section 7
                            Contravention of order with regard to import,
       2. Section 8         etc.

       3. Section 9         Import or transhipment of any animal, bird or
                            veterinary biologics without licence

                            Import or possession of noxious insects, pests
                            or genetically modified organisms, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

55                       Matters Act 2000                               2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                   Description

    4. Section 11               Failure to report arrival of animal or bird, etc.

    5. Section 13               Failure to confine animal or bird on board
                                ship, etc.

    6. Section 16               Export of any animal or bird without licence

Air Navigation Act 1966

    7. Section 14(3)            Contravention of requirement for aviation

    (previously section 4(3) safety instrument

    (Cap. 6, 2014 Revised

    Edition))

    8. Section 24(3)            Failure to comply with requirements of notice

    (previously

    section 4J(3) (Cap. 6,

    2014 Revised Edition))

    9. Section 27(4)            Failure to do anything required by notice

    (previously

    section 4M(3) (Cap. 6,

    2014 Revised Edition))

    10. Section 27(5)           Intentionally altering, suppressing

    (previously                 information, etc., or furnishing false

    section 4M(4) (Cap. 6, information, etc.

    2014 Revised Edition))

    11. Section 58(1)           Obstructing investigations, etc.

    (previously

    section 14C(1) (Cap. 6,

    2014 Revised Edition))

    12. [Deleted by S 418/2025
         wef 01/07/2025]

    13. [Deleted by S 418/2025
         wef 01/07/2025]

    14. [Deleted by S 418/2025
         wef 01/07/2025]

    15. [Deleted by S 418/2025
         wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                Matters Act 2000                                 56

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                         Description

16. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

17. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

18. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

19. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

Arms Offences Act 1973

20. Section 3                 Unlawful possession of gun with criminal
                              intent

20A. Section 3A               Carrying gun when committing, etc.,
                              scheduled offence

20B. Section 4                Using or attempting to use gun

20C. Section 4A               Using or attempting to use gun to commit
                              scheduled offence

20D. Section 5                Offence by accomplice

20E. Section 6                Trafficking in guns

20F. Section 7                Consorting with person carrying gun

20G. Section 8                Exhibiting imitation gun when committing,
                              etc., scheduled offence

Betting Act 1960

21. Section 3                 Offences relating to common betting houses
                              and betting information centres

22. Section 4                 Advancing money for conducting business of
                              common betting house

23. Section 5                 Betting in common betting house

Biological Agents and Toxins
Act 2005

24. Section 5                 Use of biological agents for non‑peaceful
                              purpose, etc.

25. Section 30                Use of toxins for non‑peaceful purpose, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

57                       Matters Act 2000                               2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                     Description

Casino Control Act 2006

    26. Section 110           Organisation or conduct of prohibited casino
                              marketing arrangements

    27. Section 110A          Person acting as international market agent or
                              international market agent representative
                              without licence

    28. Section 171           Possession, use, etc., of certain things
                              prohibited

    29. Section 172           Unlawful interference with gaming
                              equipment

    30. Section 172A          Cheating at play

    31. Section 173           Possession of chips outside designated site

    32. Section 174           Forgery and counterfeiting

Chemical Weapons
(Prohibition) Act 2000

    33. Section 8             Use, etc., of chemical weapons

Children and Young Persons
Act 1993

    34. Section 6(1)          Ill‑treatment of child or young person

    (previously section 5(1)

    (Cap. 38, 2001 Revised

    Edition))

    35. Section 7(1)          Contribution to delinquency of child or young

    (previously section 6(1) person

    (Cap. 38, 2001 Revised

    Edition))

    36. Section 8 (previously Sexual exploitation of child or young person
         section 7 (Cap. 38,
         2001 Revised Edition))

    37. Section 14(2)         Causing, procuring or allowing child or

    (previously               young person to take part in public

    section 11(2) (Cap. 38, entertainment

    2001 Revised Edition))

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                  Matters Act 2000                                58

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                              Description

38. Section 16 (previously Unlawful transfer of possession, custody or
     section 12 (Cap. 38, control of child
     2001 Revised Edition))

39. Section 17 (previously Import of child by false pretences
     section 13 (Cap. 38,
     2001 Revised Edition))

Commodity Trading Act 1992

40. Section 49 for
     contravention of any of
     the following:

          (a) section 43        False trading

          (b) section 44        Bucketing

          (c) section 45        Dissemination of information about false
                                trading

          (d) section 46        Manipulation of price and cornering

          (e) section 47        Employment of fraudulent or deceptive
                                devices, etc.

          (f) section 48        Fraudulently inducing trading

Common Gaming Houses
Act 1961

41. Section 4                   Offences relating to a common gaming house,
                                etc.

42. Section 5                   Assisting in carrying on a public lottery, etc.

43. Section 6                   Advancing or furnishing money for
                                establishing or conducting business of
                                common gaming house, etc.

44. Section 8                   Gaming in public

Companies Act 1967

44A. Section 204(1), if the
       offence is committed
       with intent to defraud
       creditors of the
       company or creditors of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

59                        Matters Act 2000                           2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                 Description

    any other person or for a
    fraudulent purpose, for
    contravention of any of
    the following:

    (a) section 201(2)         Financial statements laid before company at
                               its annual general meeting do not comply
                               with section 201(2)

    (b) section 201(5)         Consolidated financial statements and
                               balance sheet caused to be made out and laid
                               before parent company at its annual general
                               meeting do not comply with section 201(5)

    45. Section 404(3)         Obtaining payment of moneys, etc., to
                               company by false promise of officer or agent
                               of company

    46. Section 406(a)         Fraud by officer of company to induce person
                               to give credit to the company

Computer Misuse Act 1993

    47. Section 3              Unauthorised access to computer material

    48. Section 4              Access with intent to commit or facilitate
                               commission of offence

    49. Section 5              Unauthorised modification of computer
                               material

    50. Section 6              Unauthorised use or interception of computer
                               service

    51. Section 7              Unauthorised obstruction of use of computer

    52. Section 8              Unauthorised disclosure of access code

    53. Section 9 (previously Supplying, etc., personal information
         section 8A (Cap. 50A, obtained in contravention of certain
         2007 Revised Edition)) provisions

    54. Section 10 (previously Obtaining, etc., items for use in certain
         section 8B (Cap. 50A, offences
         2007 Revised Edition))

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                       Matters Act 2000                            60

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                                Description

55. Section 12 (previously Abetments and attempts punishable as
     section 10 (Cap. 50A, offences
     2007 Revised Edition))

Control of Plants Act 1993

56. Section 7                  Import or transhipment of fresh fruits or
                               vegetables without licence

57. Section 8                  Import or transhipment of fresh fruits or
                               vegetables without permit

58. Section 34 for             Export of plants contrary to order by Minister
     contravention of any
     order made under
     section 28

59. Section 34 for             Failure to give access to documents, etc.
     contravention of
     section 41

Control of Plants Act 1993
Control of Plants (Plant
Importation) Rules

60. Rule 17 for                Import of regulated plant, etc., without a
     contravention of          permit
     rule 5(1)

Copyright Act (Cap. 63,
2006 Revised Edition)

61. Section 136(1), (2), (3), Offences relating to copyright
     (4) and (6) (as in force
     before 21 November
     2021)

62. Section 260(6) (as in      Removal or alteration of rights management
     force before              information
     21 November 2021)

63. Section 261C(4) and (5) Relating to circumvention of technological

          (as in force before  measures

          21 November 2021)

Copyright Act 2021 (Act 22 of
2021) — Offences included

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

61                         Matters Act 2000                          2020 Ed.

                    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                  Description

with effect from 21 November
2021

    63A. Section 417          Removal or alteration of rights management
                              information, etc.

    63B. Section 439          Circumvention of technological measures,
                              etc.

    63C. Sections 444(1),     Offences relating to copyright works

    446(1), 448 and 450(1)

Corrosive and Explosive
Substances and Offensive
Weapons Act 1958

    64. Section 3             Possession of corrosive or explosive
                              substance for purpose of causing hurt

    64A. Section 4            Using corrosive or explosive substance or
                              offensive weapon

    64B. Section 5            Consorting with person carrying corrosive or
                              explosive substance

    64C. Section 6            Carrying offensive weapons in public places

    64D. Section 7            Offences relating to scheduled weapons

    64E. Section 8            Consorting with persons carrying offensive
                              weapons in public places

Corruption, Drug Trafficking
and Other Serious Crimes
(Confiscation of Benefits)
Act 1992

    65. Section 51 (previously Assisting another to retain benefits from
         section 44 (Cap. 65A, criminal conduct
         2000 Revised Edition))

    66. Section 54 (previously Acquiring, possessing, using, concealing or
         section 47 (Cap. 65A, transferring benefits of criminal conduct
         2000 Revised Edition))

Criminal Law (Temporary
Provisions) Act 1955

    67. Section 3             Offences relating to supplies

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                Matters Act 2000                                 62

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                         Description

Criminal Procedure Code 2010

68. Section 103(5)            Absconding or breaking conditions of bail or
                              personal bond, etc.

Customs Act 1960

69. Section 128A(1)(a) Falsification or use of falsified documents

70. Section 128A(1)(b)        Fraudulent alteration of document, or
                              counterfeiting of seal, signature, etc., used for
                              verification by officer of customs

71. Section 128D              Fraudulent evasion of, or attempt to
                              fraudulently evade, customs duty or excise
                              duty

72. Section 128E              Offences in relation to goods found in
                              person’s baggage or upon his person, etc.

73. Section 128F              Offences in relation to import of uncustomed
                              or prohibited goods

74. Section 128G              Offences in relation to export of uncustomed
                              or prohibited goods

75. Section 128H              Offences in relation to shipping, unshipping,
                              loading, unloading, etc., of uncustomed or
                              prohibited goods

76. Section 128I(1)           Offences in relation to possession, storage,
                              conveying and harbouring of goods

77. Section 131               Evading duty by unauthorised modification
                              of computer program or data

78. Section 132               Knowingly advancing or furnishing money
                              for business comprising sale, purchase, etc.,
                              of uncustomed goods

79. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

80. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

Employment Agencies
Act 1958

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

63                         Matters Act 2000                        2020 Ed.

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                  Description

    81. Section 6(4)            Carrying on employment agency, or
                                performing employment agency‑related work
                                or activity, without valid licence

Employment of Foreign
Manpower Act 1990

    82. Section 5(6)            Employment of foreign employee without a
                                valid work pass

    83. Section 5(8)            Employment of foreign employee in

    (previously                 contravention of a condition of the foreign

    section 5(7A)               employee’s work pass

    (Cap. 91A,

    2009 Revised Edition))

    84. Section 22(1)(a), (d),  Contravention of a condition of a work pass,
         (e) and (f)            etc.; making false statement or furnishing
                                false information to the Controller of Work
                                Passes, an authorised officer or an
                                employment inspector; selling, forging or
                                unlawfully altering a work pass, etc.; or using
                                or having in possession without lawful
                                authority any work pass, etc., that is forged,
                                unlawfully altered or issued to another person

    85. Section 22A(2)          Restrictions on receipt, etc., of moneys in
                                connection with employment of foreign
                                employee

    86. Section 22B(1)          Obtaining work pass for foreign employee for
                                non‑existent trade or business and failing to
                                employ the foreign employee

Endangered Species (Import
and Export) Act 2006

    87. Section 4               Importation, exportation, etc., of scheduled
                                species without permit

    88. Section 5               Scheduled species in transit unaccompanied
                                by CITES permit, etc.

    89. Section 19 for          Abetment of an offence under section 4 or 5
         contravention of
         section 4 or 5

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                 Matters Act 2000                                 64

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                          Description

Environmental Protection and
Management Act 1999

90. Section 22                Import, manufacture or sale of hazardous
                              substances without licence, etc.

91. Section 23                Import, manufacture or sale of hazardous
                              substances not in accordance with licence,
                              etc.

92. Section 24                Storage, use or dealing with hazardous
                              substances in a manner that threatens health,
                              etc.

Estate Agents Act 2010

93. Section 28(2)             Carrying on the business of doing estate
                              agency work as an estate agent, etc., by
                              person who is not a licensed estate agent

94. Section 29(3)             Acting as a salesperson for any licensed estate
                              agent, etc., by person who is not a registered
                              salesperson

95. Section 39(2)             Appointing, etc., as a salesperson any person
                              who is not a registered salesperson

96. Section 41(3)             Permitting an individual to carry out estate
                              agency work for a licensed estate agent, etc.,
                              without an agreement in writing

97. Section 64(1)             Making a false statement in relation to an
                              application under the Estate Agents Act 2010,
                              etc.

98. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

99. [Deleted by S 418/2025
     wef 01/07/2025]

100. [Deleted by S 418/2025
      wef 01/07/2025]

Feeding Stuffs Act 1965

101. Section 4(5)             Import, manufacture, etc., of animal feeds
                              without licence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

65                      Matters Act 2000                          2020 Ed.

                      SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                 Description

Films Act 1981

    102. Section 29            Offences involving dealings in obscene films

    103. Section 30            Possession of obscene films

    104. Section 31            Advertising obscene films

    105. Section 32            Offences involving children and young
                               persons

Financial Services and
Markets Act 2022 — Offence
included with effect from the
date of commencement of
section 206 of the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2022

105A. Section 15(5)            Failure or refusal to comply with direction, or
                               contravention of regulations, issued or made
                               to discharge Government’s international
                               obligations, etc.

Goods and Services Tax
Act 1993

    106. Section 62            Fraud, etc.

    107. Section 63            Improperly obtaining refund

Guns, Explosives and Weapons
Control Act 2021

107A. Section 11(1)            Unauthorised possession or storage of guns,
                               etc.

107B. Section 11(2)            Unauthorised use of guns, etc.

107C. Section 12(1)            Unauthorised manufacture or disposal of
                               guns, etc.

107D. Section 12(2)            Unauthorised repair of guns, etc.

107E. Section 13(1)            Unauthorised possession of digital blueprints
                               for manufacture of guns, etc.

    107F. Section 14           Unauthorised trade in guns, etc.

107G. Section 15(1)            Unauthorised supply or conveying of guns,
                               etc.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                    Matters Act 2000                        66

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

             Offence                            Description
107H. Section 16(1) or (3)
 107I. Section 19(1)        Unauthorised acquisition of guns, etc.

 107J. Section 19(2)        Carrying on business as shooting range
                            operator or paintball range operator without
107K. Section 22(1)         licence
107L. Section 22(3)
107M. Section 23(1)         Carrying on business as shooting range
107N. Section 23(4)         operator or paintball range operator outside of
107O. Section 24(1)         approved shooting range or approved
 107P. Section 25(1)        paintball range, etc.
107Q. Section 26(1) or (2)
107R. Section 36(1) or (2)  Unauthorised possession or storage of
                            explosive or explosive precursor
 107S. Section 37(1)
 107T. Section 38           Storing explosive or explosive precursor at
                            place that is not approved
107U. Section 39(1)
                            Unauthorised manufacture or disposal of
107V. Section 64(9)         explosive or explosive precursor

                            Unauthorised repair of explosive device

                            Unauthorised trade in explosive or explosive
                            precursor

                            Unauthorised supply or conveying of
                            explosive or explosive precursor

                            Unauthorised acquisition of explosive or
                            explosive precursor

                            Failing to keep or store gun, explosive,
                            explosive precursor, weapon or noxious
                            substance, etc., safe or secure against loss,
                            theft, etc.

                            Misuse of licence

                            Transfer of gun, explosive, explosive
                            precursor, weapon or noxious substance, etc.,
                            to another without ascertaining authority of
                            other person to possess

                            Failing, without delay, to surrender gun,
                            explosive, explosive precursor, weapon or
                            noxious substance, etc.

                            Failing to comply with security direction

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

67                          Matters Act 2000                       2020 Ed.

                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                   Description

107W. Section 67(4)           Former licensee or former class licensee
                              failing to comply with direction to rectify
                              contravention or non‑compliance

107X. Section 73(2)           Intentionally altering, suppressing or
                              destroying document or information
                              requested by authorised officer or giving false
                              or misleading statement

Hazardous Waste (Control of
Export, Import and Transit)
Act 1997

    108. Section 25           Import of hazardous waste without permit,
                              etc.

    109. Section 26           Export of hazardous waste without permit,
                              etc.

    110. Section 27           Bringing waste into Singapore in course of
                              carrying out transit proposal without permit,
                              etc.

    111. Section 37           Making false statements

111A. [Deleted by S 529/2023
        wef 28/07/2023]

111B. [Deleted by S 529/2023
        wef 28/07/2023]

Health Products Act 2007

    112. Section 16           Prohibition against supply of health products
                              that are adulterated, counterfeits, etc.

Hijacking of Aircraft and
Protection of Aircraft and
International Airports
Act 1978

    113. Section 3(3)         Hijacking

    114. Section 4            Violence against passengers or crew

    115. Section 5            Destroying, damaging or endangering safety
                              of aircraft

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                         Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                  Matters Act 2000                                     68

                       SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                                 Description

115A. Section 5A                  Using aircraft to cause death, serious bodily
                                  injury, etc.

115B. Section 5B                  Release of BCN weapon, etc., from aircraft

115C. Section 5C                  Using BCN weapon, etc., against or on board
                                  aircraft

115D. Section 5D                  Transporting or facilitating transport of BCN
                                  weapon, etc., on board aircraft

116. Section 7                    Endangering safety at aerodromes

116A. Section 8                   Threats to commit offences and screening
                                  offenders

Hostage‑Taking Act 2010

117. Section 3                    Hostage‑taking

118. Section 5(1)                 Failure to disclose information relating to
                                  hostage‑taking offence

Human Organ Transplant
Act 1987

119. Section 13(2)                Contracting for sale or supply of organ or

          (previously             blood, etc.

          section 14(2)

          (Cap. 131A,

          2012 Revised Edition))

120. Section 13(3)                Organ trading by middlemen or syndicates

          (previously

          section 14(2A)

          (Cap. 131A,

          2012 Revised Edition))

Immigration Act 1959

121. Section 5(5)                 Entering or leaving Singapore other than at
                                  authorised entry or departure points

122. Section 6(3) for             Entry or attempted entry into Singapore
      contravention of            without a valid pass
      section 6(1)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

69                         Matters Act 2000                         2020 Ed.

                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                  Description

    123. Section 57(1)(aa), (b) Abetting unlawful entry or departure, or

    and (c)                    engaging in business of conveying prohibited

                               immigrant

    124. Section 57(1)(d)      Harbouring offenders of Immigration
                               Act 1959 or its regulations

    125. Section 57(1)(k)      Making a false statement to obtain or
                               attempting to obtain an entry permit, re‑entry
                               permit, pass or certificate for himself or
                               herself or for other person

    126. Section 57(1)(l)      Using or without lawful authority having
                               possession of any forged, unlawfully altered
                               or irregular entry or re‑entry permit, pass or
                               certificate, etc.

Income Tax Act 1947

    127. Section 37M(3)        Giving false information to Comptroller of

    (previously                Income Tax, etc., to obtain, or to assist

    section 37J(3)             another person to obtain, cash payout or PIC

    (Cap. 134,                 bonus (or both), etc.

    2014 Revised Edition))

    128. Section 37M(4)        Falsifying records or using contrivances, etc.,

    (previously                to obtain, or assist another person to obtain,

    section 37J(4)             cash payout or PIC bonus (or both), etc.

    (Cap. 134,

    2014 Revised Edition))

    129. Section 96            Tax evasion and wilful action to obtain PIC
                               bonus

    130. Section 96A           Serious fraudulent tax evasion and action to
                               obtain PIC bonus

Income Tax Act 1947 —
Offences included with effect
from 8 January 2025

130A. Section 37S(3)           Giving false information to Comptroller of
                               Income Tax, etc., to obtain, or to assist
                               another person to obtain, cash payout under
                               the Enterprise Innovation Scheme, etc.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                   Matters Act 2000                         70

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                         Description
  130B. Section 37S(4)
                           Falsifying records or using contrivances, etc.,
Infrastructure Protection  to obtain, or to assist another person to obtain,
Act 2017                   cash payout under the Enterprise Innovation
                           Scheme, etc.
    131. Section 20(2)
    132. Section 21(6)     Unauthorised entry to protected place

    133. Section 27(5)     Non‑compliance with direction of authority
                           or authorised officer of protected area or
    134. Section 28(2)     protected place
    135. Section 29(4)
                           Non‑compliance with request or direction of
    136. Section 30(4)     authorised officer of protected area or
    137. Section 30(5)     protected place

    138. Section 37(7)     Non‑compliance with request of authorised
    139. Section 44(7)     officer of protected area or protected place
    140. Section 56(3)
    141. Section 56(4)     Unauthorised photography of protected area
    142. Section 68(5)     or protected place, or non‑compliance with
                           direction of authorised officer of protected
                           area or protected place

                           Unauthorised photography of protected area
                           or protected place using unmanned aircraft

                           Non‑compliance with direction of designated
                           authorised officer of protected area or
                           protected place

                           Non‑compliance with notice of
                           Commissioner of Infrastructure Protection

                           Non‑compliance with notice of
                           Commissioner of Infrastructure Protection

                           Non‑compliance with direction in security
                           directive

                           Non‑compliance with notice of
                           Commissioner of Infrastructure Protection

                           Non‑compliance with notice of
                           Commissioner of Infrastructure Protection

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                        Mutual Assistance in Criminal

71                          Matters Act 2000                          2020 Ed.

                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                      Description

    143. Section 70            Making false or misleading statement, or
                               furnishing false or misleading information or
                               document

    144. Section 71(2)         Obstructing exercise of power, discharge of
                               duty, etc.

Inquiries Act 2007

    145. The Schedule, item 5 Wilfully giving false evidence, etc.

    146. The Schedule, item 6 Threats, etc., to witnesses

Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018

    147. Section 238(4)        Fraudulent trading by responsible person

    148. Section 239(6)        Wrongful trading by responsible person

Internal Security Act 1960

    149. Section 4             Wearing of prohibited uniform, etc.

    150. Section 5             Membership of quasi‑military organisations

    151. Section 6             Illegal drilling

Kidnapping Act 1961

    152. Section 3             Abduction, wrongful restraint or wrongful
                               confinement for ransom

    153. Section 4             Knowingly receiving ransom

    154. Section 5             Knowingly negotiating to obtain or for
                               payment of ransom

Maintenance of Racial
Harmony Act 2025

154A. Section 39(1), (2) or (3) Urging violence on the basis of race

154B. Section 40(1) or (2)     Inciting enmity against persons distinguished
                               by race, etc.

Maintenance of Religious
Harmony Act 1990

154C. Section 17E(1), (2), (3) Urging violence on religious grounds or

    or (4)                     against religious group, etc.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                         Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                 Matters Act 2000                                  72

                       SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                          Description

154D. Section 17F(1), (2), (3) Inciting hatred, ill-will, etc.
         or (4)

Maritime Offences Act 2003

155. Section 3                    Hijacking of ships

156. Section 4                    Destroying or damaging ships, etc.

157. Section 5                    Commission of other acts endangering or
                                  likely to endanger safe navigation

158. Section 6                    Offences involving threats in relation to ships
                                  or safe navigation

159. Section 7(1)                 Act of violence done in connection with an
                                  offence under section 3, 4 or 5

160. Section 7(3)                 Abetment of certain acts in relation to ships or
                                  safe navigation

161. Section 7(4)                 Abetment of an offence under section 3, 4, 5
                                  or 6

162. Section 7(5)                 Attempt to commit an offence under
                                  section 3, 4, 5 or 6

163. Section 8 (previously Hijacking of fixed platforms
      section 7A (Cap. 170B,
      2004 Revised Edition))

164. Section 9 (previously Destroying or damaging fixed platforms, etc.
      section 7B (Cap. 170B,
      2004 Revised Edition))

165. Section 10 (previously Offences involving threats in relation to fixed
      section 7C (Cap. 170B, platforms
      2004 Revised Edition))

166. Section 11(1)                Act of violence done in connection with an

          (previously             offence under section 8 or 9

          section 7D(1)

          (Cap. 170B,

          2004 Revised Edition))

167. Section 11(2)                Abetment of certain acts in relation to fixed
      (previously                 platforms
      section 7D(2)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                        Mutual Assistance in Criminal

73                      Matters Act 2000                               2020 Ed.

                 SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                               Description

    (Cap. 170B,
    2004 Revised Edition))

    168. Section 11(3)             Abetment of an offence under section 8, 9 or

    (previously                    10

    section 7D(3)

    (Cap. 170B,

    2004 Revised Edition))

    169. Section 11(4)             Attempt to commit an offence under

    (previously                    section 8, 9 or 10

    section 7D(4)

    (Cap. 170B,

    2004 Revised Edition))

Medicines Act 1975

    170. Section 35 for
          contravention of any of
          the following:

    (a) section 31                 Sale of adulterated medicinal products

    (b) section 32                 Sale of medicinal products not of nature or
                                   quality demanded by purchaser

Monetary Authority of
Singapore Act 1970

    171. Section 27A(5) (as in     Failure or refusal to comply with direction, or
          force immediately        contravention of regulations, issued or made
          before the date of       to discharge Government’s international
          commencement of          obligations, etc.
          section 206 of the
          Financial Services and
          Markets Act 2022)

Moneylenders Act 2008

    172. Section 19(1)             Unlicensed moneylending

    (previously

    section 14(1) (Cap. 188,

    2010 Revised Edition))

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                    Matters Act 2000                                 74

                       SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                             Description

173. Section 47 (previously Harassing borrower, besetting borrower’s
      section 28 (Cap. 188, residence, etc.
      2010 Revised Edition))

Multi‑Level Marketing and
Pyramid Selling (Prohibition)
Act 1973

174. Section 3(2)                 Promotion of or participation in a pyramid
                                  selling scheme, or arrangement, or holding
                                  out the same

175. Section 4(2)                 Registration of business designed to promote
                                  a pyramid selling scheme or arrangement

176. Section 5(2)                 Registration of company which proposes to
                                  promote a pyramid selling scheme or
                                  arrangement

Multinational Enterprise
(Minimum Tax) Act 2024 —
Offences included with effect
from 8 January 2025

176A. Section 68(3)               Making incorrect return to Comptroller of
                                  Income Tax, etc., to evade, or to assist any
                                  other person to evade, payment of MTT or
                                  DTT

176B. Section 69                  Serious fraudulent tax evasion

Oaths and Declarations
Act 2000

177. Section 14(1)(c)             Use of false statutory declaration in a judicial

          (previously             proceeding

          section 14(1)(i)

          (Cap. 211,

          2001 Revised Edition))

Organised Crime Act 2015

178. Section 5(1)                 Being or acting as a member of a
                                  locally‑linked organised criminal group

178A. Section 5(1A)               Being or acting as a member of a locally-
                                  linked organised criminal scam group

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

75                    Matters Act 2000                        2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

             Offence                      Description
  179. Section 6(1)
  180. Section 6(2)   Recruiting, while in Singapore, another
  181. Section 6(5)   person for an organised criminal group
181A. Section 6(6)
  182. Section 7(1)   Recruiting, while outside Singapore, another
  183. Section 7(2)   person for a locally‑linked organised criminal
  184. Section 8(1)   group

  185. Section 8(2)   Recruiting, while in Singapore, another
                      person for an organised criminal scam group
  186. Section 9(1)
                      Recruiting, while outside Singapore, another
  187. Section 9(2)   person for a locally-linked organised criminal
                      scam group
  188. Section 10(1)
                      Instructing, while in Singapore, the
                      commission of an offence for an organised
                      criminal group, etc.

                      Instructing, while outside Singapore, the
                      commission of an offence for a locally‑linked
                      organised criminal group, etc.

                      Procuring, while in Singapore, expenditure or
                      application of property to support, aid or
                      promote the commission of certain offences
                      related to an organised criminal group

                      Procuring, while outside Singapore,
                      expenditure or application of property to
                      support, aid or promote the commission of
                      certain offences related to a locally‑linked
                      organised criminal group

                      Expending or applying property, while in
                      Singapore, to support, aid or promote the
                      commission of certain offences related to an
                      organised criminal group

                      Expending or applying property, while
                      outside Singapore, to support, aid or promote
                      the commission of certain offences related to
                      a locally‑linked organised criminal group

                      Allowing, while in Singapore, an organised
                      criminal group to use premises to support, aid
                      or promote the commission of certain

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                 Matters Act 2000                           76

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                       Description

    189. Section 10(2)   offences related to the organised criminal
                         group
    190. Section 11(3)
    191. Section 12(1)   Allowing, while outside Singapore, a
    192. Section 12(2)   locally‑linked organised criminal group to
    193. Section 26(3)   use premises to support, aid or promote the
    194. Section 26(5)   commission of certain offences related to the
    195. Section 39(5)   locally‑linked organised criminal group
    196. Section 44(1)
    197. Section 73(12)  Dealing with property of organised criminal
    198. Section 74(2)   group
Passports Act 2007
    199. Section 36      Facilitating, while in Singapore, the
                         commission of certain offences related to an
                         organised criminal group

                         Facilitating, while outside Singapore, the
                         commission of certain offences related to a
                         locally‑linked organised criminal group

                         Failure to comply with an organised crime
                         prevention order or a financial reporting order

                         Providing false or misleading information for
                         an organised crime prevention order or a
                         financial reporting order

                         Acting in contravention of a disqualification
                         order

                         Disclosing information which is likely to
                         prejudice an investigation or proposed
                         investigation

                         Non‑compliance with an examination order,
                         or supplying false or misleading information
                         pursuant to an examination order

                         Failure to give information of certain matters
                         relating to an offence under the Organised
                         Crime Act 2015

                         Falsifying Singapore passports, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                        Mutual Assistance in Criminal

77                      Matters Act 2000                      2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                      Description
    200. Section 38
    201. Section 39     Bringing, taking or sending false Singapore
    202. Section 40     passports, etc., across international borders
    203. Section 41
    204. Section 42     Making or giving false or misleading
    205. Section 44     statements or information
    206. Section 47
Penal Code 1871         Furnishing false or misleading documents
    207. Section 109
                        Improper use or possession of Singapore
    208. Section 115    passports, etc.

    209. Section 116    Selling Singapore passport, etc.

                        Dishonestly obtaining Singapore passport,
                        etc.

                        Offences relating to false foreign travel
                        documents

                        Abetment of a serious crime, where the
                        serious crime is transnational in nature and
                        involves an organised criminal group, and the
                        terms “serious crime”, “organised criminal
                        group” and “transnational” have the
                        meanings given to them in the United Nations
                        Convention against Transnational Organised
                        Crime, done at New York on 15 November
                        2000

                        Abetment of an offence punishable with death
                        or imprisonment for life, being a serious
                        crime, where the serious crime is
                        transnational in nature and involves an
                        organised criminal group, and the terms
                        “serious crime”, “organised criminal group”
                        and “transnational” have the meanings given
                        to them in the United Nations Convention
                        against Transnational Organised Crime, done
                        at New York on 15 November 2000

                        Abetment of an offence punishable with
                        imprisonment, being a serious crime, where
                        the serious crime is transnational in nature
                        and involves an organised criminal group,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.            Matters Act 2000                                78

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

           Offence                      Description

210. Section 118    and the terms “serious crime”, “organised
                    criminal group” and “transnational” have the
211. Section 120B   meanings given to them in the United Nations
                    Convention against Transnational Organised
212. Section 130    Crime, done at New York on 15 November
213. Section 130B   2000
214. Section 130C
215. Section 130E   Concealing a design to commit an offence
216. Section 143    punishable with death or imprisonment for
217. Section 144    life, being a serious crime, where the serious
218. Section 145    crime is transnational in nature and involves
                    an organised criminal group, and the terms
                    “serious crime”, “organised criminal group”
                    and “transnational” have the meanings given
                    to them in the United Nations Convention
                    against Transnational Organised Crime, done
                    at New York on 15 November 2000

                    Criminal conspiracy to commit a serious
                    crime, where the serious crime is
                    transnational in nature and involves an
                    organised criminal group, and the terms
                    “serious crime”, “organised criminal group”
                    and “transnational” have the meanings given
                    to them in the United Nations Convention
                    against Transnational Organised Crime, done
                    at New York on 15 November 2000

                    Aiding escape of, rescuing, or harbouring of
                    certain prisoners

                    Piracy by law of nations

                    Piratical acts

                    Genocide

                    Membership of unlawful assembly

                    Joining an unlawful assembly armed with any
                    deadly weapon

                    Joining or continuing in an unlawful
                    assembly, knowing that it has been
                    commanded to disperse

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                        Mutual Assistance in Criminal

79                      Matters Act 2000                      2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                      Description
    219. Section 146
    220. Section 147    Force used by one member in prosecution of
    221. Section 148    common object
    222. Section 149
                        Rioting
    223. Section 150
    224. Section 151    Rioting, armed with a deadly weapon

    225. Section 152    Every member of an unlawful assembly to be
    226. Section 161    deemed guilty of any offence committed in
                        prosecution of common object
    227. Section 162
    228. Section 164    Hiring, or conniving at hiring, of persons to
    229. Section 165    join an unlawful assembly

    230. Section 181    Knowingly joining or continuing in any
    231. Section 193    assembly of 5 or more persons after it has
    232. Section 194    been commanded to disperse

                        Assaulting or obstructing public servant when
                        suppressing riot, etc.

                        Public servant taking a gratification, other
                        than legal remuneration, in respect of an
                        official act

                        Taking a gratification in order, by corrupt or
                        illegal means, to influence a public servant

                        Punishment for abetment by public servant of
                        offence under section 162 or 163

                        Public servant obtaining any valuable thing,
                        without consideration, from person
                        concerned in any proceeding or business
                        transacted by such public servant

                        False statement on oath to public servant or
                        person authorised to administer an oath

                        Punishment for giving or fabricating false
                        evidence

                        Giving or fabricating false evidence with
                        intent to procure conviction of a capital
                        offence

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.           Matters Act 2000                                 80

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                    Description

233. Section 195   Giving or fabricating false evidence with
                   intent to procure conviction of an offence
                   punishable with imprisonment

234. Section 196   Using evidence known to be false

235. Section 201   Causing disappearance of evidence of an
                   offence committed, or giving false
                   information touching it, to screen the offender

236. Section 203   Giving false information respecting an
                   offence committed

237. Section 204   Destruction of document to prevent its
                   production as evidence

238. Section 204A (as in Obstructing, preventing, perverting or
      force before 1 January defeating course of justice
      2020)

239. Section 204B  Bribery of witnesses

240. Section 205   False personation for the purpose of any act
                   or proceeding in a suit

241. Section 206   Fraudulent removal or concealment of
                   property to prevent its seizure as a forfeiture,
                   in execution of a decree or under or pursuant
                   to an enforcement order

242. Section 207   Fraudulent claim to property to prevent its
                   seizure as a forfeiture, in execution of a
                   decree or under or pursuant to an enforcement
                   order

243. Section 208   Fraudulently suffering a decree for a sum not
                   due

244. Section 209 (as in force Fraudulently or dishonestly making a false
      before 1 January 2020) claim before a court of justice

245. Section 210   Fraudulently obtaining a decree for a sum not
                   due

246. Section 212   Harbouring an offender

247. Section 213   Taking gift, etc., to screen an offender from
                   punishment

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

81                     Matters Act 2000                             2020 Ed.

             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                              Description

    248. Section 214   Offering gift or restoration of property in
                       consideration of screening offender

    249. Section 215   Taking gift to help to recover stolen property,
                       etc.

    250. Section 216   Harbouring an offender who has escaped
                       from custody, or whose apprehension has
                       been ordered

    251. Section 216A  Harbouring robbers or gang‑robbers, etc.

    252. Section 217   Public servant disobeying a direction of law
                       with intent to save person from punishment or
                       property from forfeiture

    253. Section 218   Public servant framing an incorrect record or
                       writing with intent to save person from
                       punishment or property from forfeiture

    254. Section 221   Intentional omission to apprehend on the part
                       of a public servant bound by law to apprehend

    255. Section 222   Intentional omission to apprehend on the part
                       of a public servant bound by law to apprehend
                       person under sentence of court of justice

    256. Section 225A  Public servant omitting to apprehend or
                       suffering other persons to escape in cases not
                       already provided for

    257. Section 231 (as in force Counterfeiting coin
          before 1 January 2020)

    258. Section 232 (as in force Counterfeiting current coin
          before 1 January 2020)

    259. Section 233 (as in force Making or selling instrument for
          before 1 January 2020) counterfeiting coin

    260. Section 234 (as in force Making or selling instrument for
          before 1 January 2020) counterfeiting current coin

    261. Section 235 (as in force Possession of instrument or material for the
          before 1 January 2020) purpose of using the same for counterfeiting
                                         coin

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.           Matters Act 2000                                        82

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                    Description

262. Section 236 (as in force Abetting in Singapore the counterfeiting out
      before 1 January 2020) of Singapore of coin or current coin

263. Section 237 (as in force Import or export of counterfeit coin
      before 1 January 2020)

264. Section 238 (as in force Import or export of counterfeits of current
      before 1 January 2020) coin

265. Section 239 (as in force Delivery to another of coin, possessed with
      before 1 January 2020) the knowledge that it is counterfeit

266. Section 240 (as in force Delivery of current coin, possessed with the
      before 1 January 2020) knowledge that it is counterfeit

267. Section 241 (as in force Delivery to another of coin as genuine, which
      before 1 January 2020) when first possessed the deliverer did not
                                     know to be counterfeit

268. Section 241A (as in Delivery to another of current coin as

          force before 1 January genuine, which when first possessed the

          2020)    deliverer did not know to be counterfeit

269. Section 242 (as in force Possession of counterfeit coin by a person
      before 1 January 2020) who knew it to be counterfeit when he
                                     became possessed thereof

270. Section 246 (as in force Fraudulently or dishonestly diminishing the
      before 1 January 2020) weight or altering the composition of any coin

271. Section 248 (as in force Altering appearance of any coin with intent
      before 1 January 2020) that it shall pass as a coin of a different
                                     description

272. Section 252 (as in force Possession of altered coin by a person who
      before 1 January 2020) knew it to be altered when he became
                                     possessed thereof

273. Section 254 (as in force Delivery to another of coin as genuine, which
      before 1 January 2020) when first possessed the deliverer did not
                                     know to be altered

274. Section 254A (as in Delivery to another of current coin as

          force before 1 January genuine, which when first possessed the

          2020)    deliverer did not know to be altered

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

83                    Matters Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                             Description

    275. Section 261             Effacing any writing from a substance
                                 bearing a Government stamp, or removing
                                 from a document a stamp used for it, with
                                 intent to cause loss to Government

    276. Section 262             Using a Government stamp known to have
                                 been before used

    277. Section 263             Erasure of mark denoting that stamp has been
                                 used

    278. Section 264 (as in force Fraudulent use of false instrument for
          before 1 January 2020) weighing

    279. Section 265 (as in force Fraudulent use of false weight or measure
          before 1 January 2020)

    280. Section 266 (as in force Being in possession of false weights or
          before 1 January 2020) measures

    281. Section 267 (as in force Making or selling false weights or measures
          before 1 January 2020)

    282. Section 271             Disobedience to a quarantine rule

    283. Section 279             Rash driving or riding on a public way

    284. Section 292             Sale of obscene books, etc.

    285. Section 298 (as in force Uttering words, etc., with deliberate intent to
          immediately before the wound the racial feelings of any person
          date of commencement
          of section 52 of the
          Maintenance of Racial
          Harmony Act 2025)

    286. Section 298A (as in     Promoting enmity between different groups
          force immediately      on grounds of race and doing acts prejudicial
          before the date of     to maintenance of harmony
          commencement of
          section 52 of the
          Maintenance of Racial
          Harmony Act 2025)

    287. Section 302             Punishment for murder

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.             Matters Act 2000                               84

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

           Offence                       Description
288. Section 304
                     Punishment for culpable homicide not
289. Section 304A    amounting to murder
290. Section 307(1)
291. Section 307(2)  Causing death by rash or negligent act
292. Section 308
293. Section 312     Attempt to murder
294. Section 313
                     Other offences by convicts
295. Section 315(1)
                     Attempt to commit culpable homicide
296. Section 316
                     Causing miscarriage
297. Section 323
298. Section 324     Causing miscarriage without woman’s
                     consent
299. Section 325
                     Child destruction before, at or immediately
300. Section 326     after birth

301. Section 327     Causing death of a quick unborn child by an
                     act amounting to culpable homicide
302. Section 328
                     Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt
303. Section 329
                     Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous
304. Section 330     weapons or means

305. Section 331     Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous
                     hurt

                     Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by
                     dangerous weapons or means

                     Voluntarily causing hurt to extort property or
                     to constrain to an illegal act

                     Causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with
                     intent to commit an offence

                     Voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort
                     property, or to constrain to an illegal act

                     Voluntarily causing hurt to extort confession
                     or to compel restoration of property

                     Voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort
                     confession or to compel restoration of
                     property

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

85                     Matters Act 2000                       2020 Ed.

             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                              Description

    306. Section 332   Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public
                       servant from duty

    307. Section 333   Voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter
                       public servant from duty

    308. Section 335   Causing grievous hurt on provocation

    309. Section 338   Causing grievous hurt by an act which
                       endangers life or personal safety of others

    310. Section 343 (as in force Wrongful confinement for 3 or more days
          before 1 January 2020)

    311. Section 344 (as in force Wrongful confinement for 10 or more days
          before 1 January 2020)

    312. Section 345   Wrongful confinement of person for whose
                       liberation a writ has been issued

    313. Section 346   Wrongful confinement in secret

    314. Section 347   Wrongful confinement for the purpose of
                       extorting property or constraining to an
                       illegal act

    315. Section 348   Wrongful confinement for the purpose of
                       extorting confession or of compelling
                       restoration of property

    316. Section 354   Assault or use of criminal force to a person
                       with intent to outrage modesty

    317. Section 354A  Outraging modesty in certain circumstances

    318. Section 355   Assault or criminal force with intent to
                       dishonour otherwise than on grave and
                       sudden provocation

    319. Section 363   Punishment for kidnapping

    320. Section 363A  Punishment for abduction

    321. Section 364   Kidnapping or abducting in order to murder

    322. Section 365   Kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly
                       and wrongfully to confine a person

    323. Section 366   Kidnapping or abducting a woman to compel
                       her marriage, etc.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.           Matters Act 2000                                 86

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                    Description

324. Section 367   Kidnapping or abducting in order to subject a
                   person to grievous hurt, slavery, etc.

325. Section 368   Wrongfully concealing or keeping in
                   confinement a kidnapped person

326. Section 369 (as in force Kidnapping or abducting child under 10 years
      before 1 January 2020) with intent to steal movable property from the
                                     person of such child

327. Section 370   Buying or disposing of any person as a slave

328. Section 371   Habitual dealing in slaves

329. Section 372   Selling minor for purposes of prostitution,
                   etc.

330. Section 373   Buying minor for purposes of prostitution,
                   etc.

331. Section 373A  Importing woman for purposes of
                   prostitution, etc.

332. Section 374   Unlawful compulsory labour

333. Section 375   Rape

334. Section 376   Sexual assault by penetration

335. Section 376A  Sexual penetration of minor under 16

336. Section 376B  Commercial sex with minor under 18

337. Section 376C  Commercial sex with minor under 18 outside
                   Singapore

338. Section 376D  Tour outside Singapore for commercial sex
                   with minor under 18

339. Section 376E  Sexual grooming of minor under 16

340. Section 376F  Procurement of sexual activity with person
                   with mental disability

341. Section 379   Punishment for theft

342. Section 379A  Punishment for theft of a motor vehicle

343. Section 380   Theft in dwelling house, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                        Mutual Assistance in Criminal

87                      Matters Act 2000                      2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                      Description
    344. Section 381
                        Theft by clerk or servant of property in
    345. Section 382    possession of master

    346. Section 384    Theft after preparation made for causing
    347. Section 385    death or hurt in order to commit theft

    348. Section 386    Punishment for extortion

    349. Section 387    Putting person in fear of harm in order to
                        commit extortion
    350. Section 388
                        Extortion by putting a person in fear of death
    351. Section 389    or grievous hurt

    352. Section 392    Putting person in fear of death or of grievous
    353. Section 393    hurt in order to commit extortion
    354. Section 394
                        Extortion by threat of accusation of an
    355. Section 395    offence punishable with death, or
    356. Section 396    imprisonment, etc.
    357. Section 397
                        Putting person in fear of accusation of
    358. Section 399    offence, in order to commit extortion
    359. Section 400
    360. Section 401    Punishment for robbery
    361. Section 402
                        Attempt to commit robbery
    362. Section 403
                        Voluntarily causing hurt in committing
                        robbery

                        Punishment for gang‑robbery

                        Gang‑robbery with murder

                        Robbery when armed or with attempt to cause
                        death or grievous hurt

                        Making preparation to commit gang‑robbery

                        Punishment for belonging to gang‑robbers

                        Belonging to gang of thieves

                        Assembling for purpose of committing
                        gang‑robbery

                        Dishonest misappropriation of property

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.           Matters Act 2000                                      88

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                    Description

363. Section 404   Dishonest misappropriation of property
                   possessed by a deceased person at the time of
                   death

364. Section 406   Punishment of criminal breach of trust

365. Section 407 (as in force Criminal breach of trust by carrier, etc.
      before 1 January 2020)

366. Section 408 (as in force Criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant
      before 1 January 2020)

367. Section 409 (as in force Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or
      before 1 January 2020) by banker, merchant or agent

368. Section 411   Receiving stolen property

369. Section 412   Receiving property stolen in the commission
                   of a gang‑robbery

370. Section 413   Habitually dealing in stolen property

371. Section 414   Assisting in concealment or disposal of stolen
                   property

372. Section 417   Punishment for cheating

373. Section 418   Cheating with knowledge that wrongful loss
                   may be thereby caused to a person whose
                   interest the offender is bound to protect

374. Section 419   Punishment for cheating by personation

375. Section 420   Cheating and dishonestly inducing a delivery
                   of property

376. Section 421   Dishonest or fraudulent removal or
                   concealment of property to prevent
                   distribution among creditors

377. Section 422   Dishonestly or fraudulently preventing a debt
                   or demand due to the offender from being
                   made available for the offender’s creditors

378. Section 423   Dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of
                   transfer containing a false statement of
                   consideration

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

89                    Matters Act 2000                        2020 Ed.

             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                             Description

    379. Section 424  Dishonest or fraudulent removal or
                      concealment of property or release of claim

    380. Section 430A (as in Mischief affecting railway engine, train, etc.
          force before 1 January
          2020)

    381. Section 431 (as in force Mischief by injury to public road, bridge or
          before 1 January 2020) river

    382. Section 431A (as in Mischief by injury to telegraph cable, wire,
          force before 1 January etc.
          2020)

    383. Section 432 (as in force Mischief by causing inundation or
          before 1 January 2020) obstruction to public drainage, attended with
                                         damage

    384. Section 433 (as in force Mischief by destroying or moving or
          before 1 January 2020) rendering less useful a lighthouse or sea‑mark

    385. Section 435  Mischief by fire or explosive substance with
                      intent to cause damage

    386. Section 436  Mischief by fire or explosive substance with
                      intent to destroy a house, etc.

    387. Section 438  Punishment for the mischief described in
                      section 437 when committed by fire or any
                      explosive substance

    388. Section 439  Punishment for intentionally running vessel
                      aground or ashore with intent to commit theft,
                      etc.

    389. Section 440  Mischief committed after preparation made
                      for causing death or hurt

    390. Section 449  House‑breaking in order to commit an
                      offence punishable with death

    391. Section 450  House‑breaking in order to commit an
                      offence punishable with imprisonment for life

    392. Section 451  House‑breaking in order to commit an
                      offence punishable with imprisonment

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.           Matters Act 2000                                     90

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                    Description

393. Section 452   House‑breaking after preparation made for
                   causing hurt, etc.

394. Section 453 (as in force Punishment for lurking house‑trespass or
      before 1 January 2020) house‑breaking

395. Section 454 (as in force Lurking house‑trespass or house‑breaking in
      before 1 January 2020) order to commit an offence punishable with
                                     imprisonment

396. Section 455 (as in force Lurking house‑trespass or house‑breaking
      before 1 January 2020) after preparation made for causing hurt, etc.

397. Section 456 (as in force Punishment for lurking house‑trespass by
      before 1 January 2020) night or house‑breaking by night

398. Section 457 (as in force Lurking house‑trespass by night or
      before 1 January 2020) house‑breaking by night in order to commit
                                     an offence punishable with imprisonment

399. Section 458 (as in force Lurking house‑trespass by night or
      before 1 January 2020) house‑breaking by night after preparation
                                     made for causing hurt, etc.

400. Section 459   Grievous hurt caused while committing
                   house‑breaking

401. Section 460   House‑breaking when death or grievous hurt
                   is caused

402. Section 461   Dishonestly breaking open any closed
                   receptacle containing or supposed to contain
                   property

403. Section 462   Punishment for same offence when
                   committed by person entrusted with custody

404. Section 465   Punishment for forgery

405. Section 466   Forgery of record of a court of justice, or a
                   public register of births, etc.

406. Section 467   Forgery of a valuable security or will

407. Section 468   Forgery for the purpose of cheating

408. Section 469   Forgery for the purpose of harming the
                   reputation of any person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                       Mutual Assistance in Criminal

91                     Matters Act 2000                       2020 Ed.

             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                              Description

    409. Section 471   Using as genuine a forged document or
                       forged electronic record

    410. Section 472   Making or possessing a counterfeit seal,
                       plate, etc., with intent to commit a forgery
                       punishable under section 467

    411. Section 473   Making or possessing a counterfeit seal,
                       plate, etc., with intent to commit a forgery
                       punishable otherwise

    412. Section 473A  Making or possessing equipment for making
                       a false instrument

    413. Section 473B  Making or possessing equipment for making
                       a false instrument with intent to induce
                       prejudice

    414. Section 474   Having possession of a valuable security or
                       will known to be forged, with intent to use it
                       as genuine

    415. Section 475   Counterfeiting a device or mark used for
                       authenticating documents described in
                       section 467, or possessing counterfeit marked
                       material

    416. Section 476   Counterfeiting a device or mark used for
                       authenticating documents other than those
                       described in section 467, or possessing
                       counterfeit marked material

    417. Section 477   Fraudulent cancellation, destruction, etc., of a
                       will

    418. Section 477A  Falsification of accounts

    419. Section 489A (as in Forging or counterfeiting currency notes or
          force before 1 January bank notes
          2020)

    420. Section 489B  Using as genuine forged or counterfeit
                       currency or bank notes

    421. Section 489C  Possession of forged or counterfeit currency
                       or bank notes

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                   Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.           Matters Act 2000                                         92

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                    Description

422. Section 500               Punishment for defamation

423. Section 501               Printing or engraving matter known to be
                               defamatory

424. Section 502               Sale of printed or engraved substance
                               containing defamatory matter

425. Section 504               Intentional insult with intent to provoke a
                               breach of the peace

426. Section 505               Statements conducing to public mischief

427. Section 506               Punishment for criminal intimidation

428. Section 507               Criminal intimidation by an anonymous
                               communication

429. Section 509 (as in force Word or gesture intended to insult the
      before 1 January 2020) modesty of a woman

Penal Code 1871 —
Offences included with effect
from 1 January 2020

430. Section 204A              Obstructing, preventing, perverting or
                               defeating course of justice

431. Section 268C              Placing or sending thing causing fear of harm

432. Section 292A              Possession, distribution, etc., of child sex‑doll

433. Section 304B              Causing death of child below 14 years of age,
                               domestic worker or vulnerable person by
                               sustained abuse

434. Section 304C              Causing or allowing death of child below
                               14 years of age, domestic worker or
                               vulnerable person in same household

435. Section 308A              Causing death in furtherance of group’s
                               object

436. Section 308B              Concealment, desecration or disposal of
                               corpse that impedes discovery, identification,
                               criminal investigations or prosecutions

437. Section 342               Punishment for wrongful confinement

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

93                      Matters Act 2000                      2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                      Description
    438. Section 376AA
    439. Section 376EA  Exploitative sexual penetration of minor of or
    440. Section 376EB  above 16 but below 18 years of age
    441. Section 376EC
                        Exploitative sexual grooming of minor of or
    442. Section 376ED  above 16 but below 18 years of age
    443. Section 376EE
                        Sexual communication with minor below
    444. Section 376H   16 years of age
    445. Section 377BA
    446. Section 377BB  Exploitative sexual communication with
    447. Section 377BC  minor of or above 16 but below 18 years of
    448. Section 377BD  age
    449. Section 377BE
    450. Section 377BF  Sexual activity or image in presence of minor
    451. Section 377BG  below 16 years of age
    452. Section 377BH
    453. Section 377BI  Exploitative sexual activity or image in
    454. Section 377BJ  presence of minor of or above 16 but below
    455. Section 377BK  18 years of age

                        Procurement of sexual activity by deception
                        or false representation

                        Word or gesture intended to insult modesty of
                        any person

                        Voyeurism

                        Distribution of voyeuristic image or
                        recording

                        Possession of or gaining access to voyeuristic
                        or intimate image or recording

                        Distributing or threatening to distribute
                        intimate image or recording

                        Sexual exposure

                        Using or involving child in production of
                        child abuse material

                        Producing child abuse material

                        Distributing or selling child abuse material

                        Advertising or seeking child abuse material

                        Possession of or gaining access to child abuse
                        material

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          94

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                            Description
    456. Section 377BL        Exploitation by abusive material of minor of
                              or above 16 but below 18 years of age
    457. Section 407          Criminal breach of trust of property entrusted
                              for purposes of transportation or storage
    458. Section 408          Criminal breach of trust by employees
    459. Section 409          Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or
                              by banker, merchant, agent, director, officer,
    460. Section 416A         partner, key executive or fiduciary
    461. Section 420A         Illegally obtained personal information
                              Obtaining services dishonestly or
    462. Section 424A         fraudulently
                              Fraud by false representation, non‑disclosure
    463. Section 427          or abuse of position not connected with
                              contracts for goods or services
    464. Section 453          Punishment for committing mischief causing
                              disruption to key service, etc.
    465. Section 489A         Possession of house‑breaking implements or
                              offensive weapons
Penal Code 1871 —             Forging or counterfeiting currency or bank
Offence included with effect  notes
from 28 July 2023
                              Fraud by false representation, non-disclosure
 465A. Section 424B           or abuse of position

Prevention of Corruption      Punishment for corruption
Act 1960                      Punishment for corrupt transactions with
                              agents
    466. Section 5            Corruptly procuring withdrawal of tenders
    467. Section 6            Bribery of Member of Parliament
                              Bribery of member of public body
    468. Section 10
    469. Section 11
    470. Section 12

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

95                    Matters Act 2000                        2020 Ed.

                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                Description

    471. Section 29            Abetment of offences

    472. Section 30            Attempts to commit offences

    473. Section 31            Conspiracy

Prevention of Human
Trafficking Act 2014

    474. Section 3             Trafficking in persons

    475. Section 6             Receiving payments in connection with
                               exploitation of trafficked victims

Protected Areas and Protected
Places Act (Cap. 256,
2013 Revised Edition)

    476. Section 7             Penalty for contravening section 4 or 5, etc.

Radiation Protection Act 2007

    477. Section 6 (previously Import, export, etc., of radioactive materials
          section 5 (Cap. 262,
          2008 Revised Edition))

    478. Section 7 (previously Import, export, etc., of irradiating apparatus
          section 6 (Cap. 262,
          2008 Revised Edition))

    479. Section 12 (previously Disposal of radioactive waste without prior
          section 11 (Cap. 262, approval of Director‑General, etc.
          2008 Revised Edition))

    480. Section 13 (previously Accumulation of radioactive waste without
          section 12 (Cap. 262, prior approval of Director‑General, etc.
          2008 Revised Edition))

    481. Section 15 (previously Transport of radioactive waste without prior
          section 14 (Cap. 262, approval of Director‑General, etc.
          2008 Revised Edition))

    482. Section 44 (previously Making or producing false or misleading
          section 31 (Cap. 262, statements and documents
          2008 Revised Edition))

Railways Act 1905

    483. Section 87            Wilful act or omission endangering passenger

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                     Matters Act 2000                       96

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                           Description
Rapid Transit Systems
Act 1995                     Wilfully endangering safety of railway
                             passenger
    484. Section 25          Damage to railway or railway premises

    485. Section 26          Unlawful remote gambling
Remote Gambling Act 2014     Providing unlawful remote gambling service
                             for another
    486. Section 8           Prohibition against overseas remote gambling
    487. Section 9           service with Singapore‑customer link
                             Prohibition against Singapore‑based remote
    488. Section 10          gambling service
                             Unlawful employment of young person in
    489. Section 11          remote gambling
                             Unlawful invitation, etc., to young person to
    490. Section 12          gamble remotely

    491. Section 13          Driving while under disqualification
                             Reckless or dangerous driving
Road Traffic Act 1961        Collision of heavy motor vehicles and public
    492. Section 43(4)       service vehicles with buildings or structures
    493. Section 64          Driving while under influence of drink or
    494. Section 65A         drugs
                             Driving heavy motor vehicle without police
    495. Section 67          escort

    496. Section 79(1)       Importing food not registered with
                             Director‑General
Sale of Food Act 1973
Food Regulations

    497. Regulation 261 for
          contravention of
          regulation 14

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      Mutual Assistance in Criminal

97                      Matters Act 2000                                   2020 Ed.

             SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    Offence                                       Description

Securities and Futures
Act 2001

    498. Section 140                Offences relating to take‑over offers

    499. Section 204 for
          contravention of any of
          the following:

    (a) section 197                 False trading and market rigging transactions

    (b) section 198 (as in Securities market manipulation
         force before
         8 October 2018)

    (c) section 199                 Making false or misleading statements, etc.

    (d) section 200                 Fraudulently inducing persons to deal in
                                    securities

    (e) section 201                 Employment of manipulative and deceptive
                                    devices

    (f) section 202 (as in Dissemination of information about illegal

    force before                    transactions

    8 October 2018)

    (g) section 203 (as in Failure to make disclosure to securities

    force before                    exchange

    8 October 2018)

    500. Section 212 (as in force
          before 8 October 2018)
          for contravention of any
          of the following:

    (a) section 206 (as in False trading
         force before
         8 October 2018)

    (b) section 207 (as in Bucketing
         force before
         8 October 2018)

    (c) section 208 (as in Manipulation of price of futures contract and

    force before                    cornering

    8 October 2018)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                   Matters Act 2000                                  98

                    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                             Description

          (d) section 209 (as in Fraudulently inducing persons to trade in

          force before     futures contracts

          8 October 2018)

          (e) section 210 (as in Employment of fraudulent or deceptive

          force before     devices, etc.

          8 October 2018)

          (f) section 211 (as in Dissemination of information about illegal

          force before     transactions

          8 October 2018)

501. Section 221 for       Insider trading
      contravention of
      section 218 or 219

Sedition Act 1948

502. Section 4             Offences

Societies Act 1966

503. Section 14(2) and (3) Management or membership of unlawful
                                     society, etc.

504. Section 15            Allowing unlawful assembly in premises

505. Section 16            Inciting, etc., a person to become a member of
                           unlawful society

506. Section 17            Procuring subscription or aid for unlawful
                           society

507. Section 18            Publishing, etc., propaganda of unlawful
                           society

508. Section 23(2)         Possession of books, etc., of triad society

Strategic Goods (Control)
Act 2002

509. Section 5             Transfer of strategic goods, etc.

510. Section 6             Brokering of strategic goods, etc.

Termination of Pregnancy
Act 1974

511. Section 3(4)          Medical termination of pregnancy

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

99                         Matters Act 2000                   2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Offence                         Description
    512. Section 5         Coercion or intimidation
Terrorism (Suppression of
Bombings) Act 2007         Terrorist bombing
    513. Section 3         Failure to disclose information about acts of
    514. Section 4         terrorist bombing

Terrorism (Suppression of  Providing or collecting property for terrorist
Financing) Act 2002        acts
                           Provision of property and services for
    515. Section 3         terrorist purposes
                           Use or possession of property for terrorist
    516. Section 4         purposes
                           Dealing with property of terrorists
    517. Section 5         Failure to disclose information on property
                           belonging to terrorist or transaction relating
    518. Section 6         to such property, etc.
    519. Section 8         Failure to comply with order requiring
                           continuing audit on whether in possession of
    520. Section 9         property belonging to terrorist, etc.
                           Failure to disclose information about acts of
    521. Section 10        terrorism financing
                           Contravention of order for restraint of
    522. Section 14        property

Terrorism (Suppression of  Possessing radioactive material or
Misuse of Radioactive      Convention device
Material) Act 2017         Making Convention device
                           Using radioactive material or Convention
    523. Section 4         device

    524. Section 5
    525. Section 6(1)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                    Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                 Matters Act 2000                             100

                   SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

          Offence                          Description

526. Section 7(1)             Using or damaging nuclear facility in manner
                              that causes, or creates risk of, release of
                              radioactive material

527. Section 8                Threatening to do act that would be offence
                              under section 6 or 7

528. Section 9                Making demands relating to radioactive
                              material, Convention device or nuclear
                              facility

529. Section 10               Attempting to commit offence under
                              section 4, 5, 6 or 7

Trade Marks Act 1998

530. Section 46               Counterfeiting a trade mark

531. Section 47               Falsely applying a registered trade mark to
                              goods or services

532. Section 48               Making or possessing of article for
                              committing offence

533. Section 49               Importing or selling, etc., goods with falsely
                              applied trade mark

Transboundary Haze Pollution
Act 2014

534. Section 5(1) and (3) Offences for causing, etc., haze pollution in
                                     Singapore

United Nations Act 2001

535. Any offence in any Offences
      regulations made under
      the United Nations
      Act 2001

Vandalism Act 1966

536. Section 3                Vandalism

Variable Capital Companies
Act 2018

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                         Mutual Assistance in Criminal

101                          Matters Act 2000                  2020 Ed.

                     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

     Offence                                   Description

     537. Section 83(5)        Contravention of direction or regulations
                               issued or made to discharge Government’s
                               international obligations, etc.

     538. Section 340(5) of the Fraudulent trading by responsible person
           Companies Act 1967
           (as in force before
           30 July 2020) as applied
           by section 130(1) of the
           Variable Capital
           Companies Act 2018

     539. Section 144(2)(a)    Fraud by officer or manager of VCC to induce
                               person to give credit to VCC, etc.

     540. Section 146(1)       Obtaining payment of moneys, etc., to VCC
                               by false promise of officer, manager or agent
                               of VCC

Wholesome Meat and Fish
Act 1999

     541. Section 5            Import, export or transhipment of meat
                               products or fish products without licence, etc.

     542. Section 6            Import, export or transhipment of meat
                               products or fish products without permit, etc.

Wild Animals and Birds Act
(Cap. 351, 2000 Revised
Edition)

     543. Section 10 (as in force Importation of wild animals and birds without
           before 1 June 2020) authorisation, etc.

Wildlife Act 1965 —
Offences included with effect
from 1 June 2020

     544. Section 8            Sale or export of wildlife

     545. Section 9            Import of wildlife

Women’s Charter 1961

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.              Matters Act 2000                              102

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

           Offence                        Description
546. Section 36
547. Section 37       Forcing a person to marry against the person’s
548. Section 140      will, or preventing a person from contracting
549. Section 141      a valid marriage
550. Section 142
551. Section 145      Making a false declaration or signing a false
552. Section 146(1)   notice, etc., required by the Women’s
553. Section 146(1A)  Charter 1961

554. Section 146A(1)  Offences relating to prostitution

555. Section 147      Trafficking in women and girls
556. Section 148
                      Import of woman or girl by false pretences

                      Causing or encouraging prostitution of,
                      sexual penetration with, or indecent assault
                      on, girl below the age of 16

                      Persons living on or trading in prostitution

                      Knowingly soliciting, receiving or agreeing
                      to receive gratification as inducement or
                      reward for providing any service, where the
                      defendant does or will aid the prostitution of
                      another person (being a woman or girl) by
                      providing that service

                      Operating or maintaining in Singapore, in the
                      course of business, a remote communication
                      service that offers or facilitates the provision
                      by a woman or girl to another person of
                      sexual services in return for payment or
                      reward, etc.

                      Keeping or management of places of
                      assignation

                      Keeping or management of brothels

                                        [Act 10 of 2025 wef 15/09/2026]
                                            [S 840/2025 wef 30/12/2025]
                                            [S 418/2025 wef 01/07/2025]
                                             [S 12/2025 wef 08/01/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

103  Matters Act 2000                                                                    2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Note: The short description of offences in this Schedule is for ease of reference only.

     [23/2014; 9/2018; 40/2018; S 349/2015; S 684/2015;
          S 255/2016; S 305/2016; S 489/2017; S 49/2018;
          S 847/2018; S 19/2019; S 525/2019; S 856/2019;
          S 36/2020; S 429/2020; S 571/2020; S 758/2020;
                                                       S 887/2021]

                              [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                  [S 247/2022 wef 01/04/2022]

                                  [S 704/2022 wef 01/09/2022]

                              [Act 31 of 2019 wef 01/11/2022]

                              [Act 18 of 2022 wef 28/04/2023]

                                  [S 529/2023 wef 28/07/2023]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                           Sections 16(3), 29(2) and (3), 31(1),
                                                                                                   32(1), 46 and 47

          ENFORCEMENT OF FOREIGN CONFISCATION ORDERS

                                            PART 1

                                         Preliminary

Interpretation

 1.—(1) In this Schedule —

      “charging order” means an order made under paragraph 8(1);

        [Deleted by Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

      “interest”, in relation to property, includes right;

        [Deleted by Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

      “subject property” means —

                (a) where a foreign confiscation order (not being an instrumentality
                     forfeiture order) has been made — any property in respect of
                     which the order was made; or

                (b) where a foreign confiscation order (not being an instrumentality
                     forfeiture order) may be made in proceedings which have been,
                     or are to be, instituted in the prescribed foreign country
                     concerned — any property in respect of which such an order
                     could be made.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          104

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) A reference to a restraint order in Part 2 of this Schedule is a reference to an
order made under paragraph 7(1), and a reference to a restraint order in Part 3 of
this Schedule is a reference to an order made under paragraph 18.

(3) For the purposes of this Schedule —

(a) property is held by any person if the person holds any interest in it;

(b) a reference to property held by a person includes a reference to
     property vested in the person’s trustee in bankruptcy or liquidator;

(c) a reference to an interest held by a person beneficially in property
    includes a reference to an interest which would be held by the person
    beneficially if the property were not so vested in the person’s trustee in
    bankruptcy or liquidator; and

      (d) property is transferred by one person to another if the first person
           transfers or grants to the other any interest in the property.

(4) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]
(5) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Application

 2. This Schedule only applies to any matter which is the subject of a request
under section 29, and in relation to which the Attorney‑General has decided to act,
or has authorised that action be taken, under the provisions of this Schedule.

                                            PART 2

                Enforcement of foreign confiscation orders other than
                             instrumentality forfeiture orders

Interpretation of this Part

 3.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, the value of property (other than cash) in
relation to any person holding the property —

        (a) where any other person holds an interest in the property, is —

                  (i) the market value of the firstmentioned person’s beneficial
                      interest in the property; less

                 (ii) the amount required to discharge any incumbrance (other than
                      a charging order) on that interest; and

        (b) in any other case, is its market value.

 (2) References in this Part to the value at any time (called in this paragraph the
material time) of a gift caught by this Schedule are references to —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

105                        Matters Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

     (a) the value of the gift to the recipient when the recipient received it,
          adjusted to take account of subsequent changes in the value of money;
          or

     (b) where sub‑paragraph (3) applies, the value mentioned in that
          sub‑paragraph,

whichever is the greater.

(3) If at the material time the recipient holds —

     (a) the property which the recipient received (not being cash); or

     (b) property which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly represents in
          the recipient’s hands the property which the recipient received,

the value mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2)(b) is the value to the recipient at the
material time of the property mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) or of the property
mentioned in sub‑paragraph (b) (as the case may be) so far as it so represents the
property which the recipient received, but disregarding in either case any charging
order.

 (4) In this Part, “foreign confiscation order” excludes an instrumentality
forfeiture order.

Gifts caught by Schedule

 4.—(1) A reference in this Part to a gift caught by this Schedule is a reference to
a gift made, whether before, on or after 1 April 2000 —

        (a) by the defendant since the beginning of the period of 6 years ending
             when the judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent
             authority were instituted against the defendant; or

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (b) by the defendant at any time, being a gift of property which is or is part
             of the benefits derived by the defendant from criminal conduct.

 (2) For the purposes of this Part —

        (a) the circumstances in which the defendant is to be treated as making a
             gift include those where the defendant transfers property to another
             person, directly or indirectly, for a consideration the value of which is
             significantly less than the value of the consideration provided by the
             defendant; and

        (b) in those circumstances, this section applies as if the defendant had
             made a gift of such share in the property as bears to the whole property
             the same proportion as the difference between the values referred to in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          106

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

          sub‑paragraph (a) bears to the value of the consideration provided by
          the defendant.

(3) In sub‑paragraph (1), “criminal conduct” means —

(a) doing or being concerned in any act constituting a foreign offence;

(b) entering into or being otherwise concerned in, whether in Singapore or
     elsewhere, an arrangement whereby —

          (i) the retention or control by or on behalf of another person of that
              other person’s benefits of an act mentioned in
              sub‑paragraph (a) is facilitated; or

          (ii) the benefits from an act mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) by
               another person are used to secure funds that are placed at that
               other person’s disposal, directly or indirectly, or are used for
               that other person’s benefit to acquire property by way of
               investment or otherwise;

(c) the concealing or disguising by a person of any property which is, or in
    part, directly or indirectly represents, the person’s benefits from an act
    mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a); or

(d) the conversion or transfer by a person of any property mentioned in
     sub‑paragraph (c) or the removal of such property from the
     jurisdiction.

Interest on amounts to be recovered under foreign confiscation orders

 5.—(1) Where a fixed amount is payable under a foreign confiscation order
registered under section 30, that amount is to be treated as a judgment debt and the
provisions of any written law relating to the payment of interest on judgment debts
apply to it.

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1), the date of registration of the order is
to be treated as the date of the judgment debt.

 (3) Where by virtue of sub‑paragraph (1) any interest accrues on the amount
payable under a foreign confiscation order, the defendant shall be liable to pay that
interest and the amount of the interest is for the purposes of enforcement to be
treated as part of the amount payable under the foreign confiscation order.

Cases in which restraint orders and charging orders may be made

 6.—(1) The powers conferred on the General Division of the High Court by
paragraph 7(1) to make a restraint order and by paragraph 8(1) to make a charging
order are exercisable where —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

107  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

     (a) judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent authority have
          been instituted in a prescribed foreign country;

                                                                          [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

     (b) the proceedings have not been concluded; and

     (c) either a foreign confiscation order has been made in the proceedings or
         it appears to the General Division of the High Court that there are
         reasonable grounds for believing that such an order may be made in
         them.

 (2) Those powers are also exercisable where the General Division of the High
Court is satisfied that judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent
authority are to be instituted in a prescribed foreign country and that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that a foreign confiscation order may be made in
them.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) Where the General Division of the High Court has made an order under
paragraph 7(1) or 8(1) by virtue of sub‑paragraph (2), the General Division of the
High Court is to discharge the order if the proposed judicial proceedings or
proceedings before a competent authority are not instituted within such time as the
General Division of the High Court considers reasonable and which must not in
any event exceed 3 months.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (4) The General Division of the High Court must not make an order under
paragraph 7(1) or 8(1) if it is of the opinion that it is contrary to the public interest
for the order to be made.

Restraint orders

 7.—(1) The General Division of the High Court may make a restraint order to
prohibit any person from dealing with any subject property, subject to any
conditions and exceptions that may be specified in the order.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) A restraint order may apply —

        (a) to all subject property held by a specified person, whether the property
             is described in the restraint order or not; and

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (b) to all subject property held by a specified person, being property
             transferred to the person after the making of the restraint order.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) This section does not have effect in relation to any property for the time
being subject to a charge under paragraph 8.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.                 Matters Act 2000                           108

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

(4) A restraint order —

(a) may be made only on an application by the Attorney‑General or, in a
     case where a foreign confiscation order has been registered under
     section 30, by a receiver appointed under paragraph 10 or the
     Attorney‑General;

       (b) may be made on an application without notice to a Judge in chambers;
            and

                                                                             [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (c) despite anything in Order 8 of the Rules of Court 2021, may provide
            for service on, or the provision of notice to, persons affected by the
            order in any manner that the General Division of the High Court may
            direct.

                                                                                  [S 247/2022 wef 01/04/2022]

(5) A restraint order may be discharged or varied in relation to any property.

 (6) A restraint order must be discharged when judicial proceedings or
proceedings before a competent authority in relation to which the order was
made are concluded.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (7) Where the General Division of the High Court has made a restraint order, the
General Division of the High Court may at any time appoint the Public Trustee or
any person as receiver —

(a) to take possession of any subject property; and

                                                                     [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

(b) in accordance with the directions of the General Division of the High
     Court, to manage or otherwise deal with any property in respect of
     which the receiver is appointed,

subject to any exceptions and conditions that may be specified by the General
Division of the High Court.

 (8) The General Division of the High Court may require any person having
possession of property in respect of which the receiver is appointed under
sub‑paragraph (7) to give possession of it to the Public Trustee or such receiver.

 (9) Where the General Division of the High Court has made a restraint order, an
authorised officer may, for the purpose of preventing any subject property from
being removed from Singapore, seize the property.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (10) Property seized under sub‑paragraph (9) must be dealt with in accordance
with the directions of the General Division of the High Court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                 Mutual Assistance in Criminal

109              Matters Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

                 THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

Charging orders

 8.—(1) The General Division of the High Court may make a charging order on
any subject property for securing the payment to the Government —

     (a) where a fixed amount is payable under a foreign confiscation order —
          of an amount not exceeding the amount so payable; or

        (b) in any other case — of an amount equal to the value from time to time
             of the property charged.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) For the purposes of this Schedule, a charging order is an order imposing on
any subject property that may be specified in the order a charge for securing the
payment of money to the Government.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) A charging order may be made —

     (a) only on an application by the Attorney‑General, or in a case where a
          foreign confiscation order has been registered under section 30, a
          receiver appointed under paragraph 10 or the Attorney‑General; and

        (b) on an application without notice to a Judge in chambers.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) Subject to sub‑paragraph (6), a charge may be imposed by a charging order
only on —

     (a) any interest in any subject property, being an interest held beneficially
          by the defendant or by a person to whom the defendant has, directly or
          indirectly, made a gift caught by this Schedule —

     (i) in any asset of a kind mentioned in sub‑paragraph (5); or

     (ii) under any trust; or

                                              [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

     (b) any interest in any subject property held by a person as trustee of a trust
          if the interest is in such an asset or is an interest under another trust, and
          a charge may, by virtue of sub‑paragraph (a), be imposed by a charging
          order on the whole beneficial interest under the firstmentioned trust.

                                                                          [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (4A) Sub‑paragraph (4) does not apply to a subject property for the time being in
the hands of the Public Trustee or a receiver pursuant to paragraph 12A.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

(5) The assets mentioned in sub‑paragraph (4) are —

     (a) immovable property in Singapore; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                              110

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

(b) securities of any of the following kinds:

          (i) securities of the Government or of any public authority;

          (ii) stock of any body incorporated in Singapore;

          (iii) stock of any body incorporated outside Singapore or of any
                country or territory outside Singapore, being stock registered in
                a register kept at any place within Singapore;

          (iv) units of any unit trust in respect of which a register of the unit
               holders is kept at any place within Singapore.

 (6) In any case where a charge is imposed by a charging order on any interest in
an asset of a kind mentioned in sub‑paragraph (5)(b), the General Division of the
High Court may provide for the charge to extend to any interest or dividend
payable in respect of the asset.

 (7) Where the General Division of the High Court has made a charging order, the
General Division of the High Court may give such directions to the Public Trustee
or any person as the General Division of the High Court thinks fit to safeguard the
assets under the charging order.

 (8) The General Division of the High Court may make an order discharging or
varying the charging order and must make an order discharging the charging order
if the judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent authority against the
defendant in the prescribed foreign country are concluded or the amount, payment
of which is secured by the charge, is paid into the General Division of the High
Court.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Charging orders: supplementary provisions

 9.—(1) A charging order may be made either absolutely or subject to conditions
as to notifying any person holding any interest in the property to which the order
relates or as to the time when the charge is to become enforceable, or as to other
matters.

 (2) A caveat may be lodged under the Land Titles Act 1993 or an entry may be
made under the Registration of Deeds Act 1988 (as the case may be) in respect of a
charging order.

 (3) Subject to any provision made under paragraph 12 or by the Rules of Court, a
charge imposed by a charging order has the like effect and is enforceable in the
same manner as an equitable charge created by the person holding the beneficial
interest or (as the case may be) the trustees by writing under their hand.

 (4) Where a charging order has been protected by a caveat lodged under the
Land Titles Act 1993 or by an entry registered under the Registration of Deeds

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

111  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

Act 1988, an order under paragraph 8(8) discharging the charging order may direct
that the caveat be removed or the entry be cancelled.

Realisation of property

 10.—(1) Where a foreign confiscation order has been registered in the General
Division of the High Court under section 30, the General Division of the High
Court may, on the application of the Attorney‑General, exercise the powers
conferred by sub‑paragraphs (2) to (7).

 (2) In respect of any sum of money payable under the foreign confiscation order,
the General Division of the High Court may make an enforcement order for
attachment of a debt as if the sum were due to the Government pursuant to a
judgment or order of the General Division of the High Court, but any such order
must direct that the sum payable be paid to the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may appoint the Public Trustee or
any person as receiver in respect of any subject property.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (4) The General Division of the High Court may empower the Public Trustee or
any receiver appointed under sub‑paragraph (3) or paragraph 7 or pursuant to a
charging order —

        (a) to enforce any charge imposed under paragraph 8 on any subject
             property or on interest or dividends payable in respect of such
             property; and

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (b) in relation to any subject property other than property for the time
             being subject to a charge under paragraph 8, to take possession of the
             property subject to any conditions or exceptions that the General
             Division of the High Court may specify.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (5) The General Division of the High Court may order any person having
possession of any subject property to give possession of it to the Public Trustee or
any receiver.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (6) The General Division of the High Court may empower the Public Trustee or
any receiver to realise any subject property in any manner that the General
Division of the High Court may direct.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (7) The General Division of the High Court may order any person holding an
interest in any subject property to make such payment to the Public Trustee or any
receiver in respect of any beneficial interest held by the defendant or (as the case

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          112

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

may be) the recipient of a gift caught by this Schedule as the General Division of
the High Court may direct and the General Division of the High Court may, on the
payment being made, by order transfer, grant or extinguish any interest in the
property.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (8) Sub‑paragraphs (5) to (7) do not apply to property for the time being subject
to a charge under paragraph 8.

 (9) The General Division of the High Court is not to in respect of any property
exercise the powers conferred by sub‑paragraph (4)(a), (6) or (7) unless a
reasonable opportunity has been given to persons holding any interest in the
property to make representations to the General Division of the High Court.

Application of proceeds of realisation and other sums

 11.—(1) Subject to sub‑paragraph (2), the following sums in the hands of the
Public Trustee or any receiver pursuant to paragraph 7 or 10 or pursuant to a
charging order, that is —

        (a) the proceeds of the enforcement of any charge imposed under
             paragraph 8;

        (b) the proceeds of the realisation, other than by the enforcement of such a
             charge, of any property under paragraph 7 or 10; and

        (c) any other sums, being property held by the defendant,

must, after any payments that the General Division of the High Court may direct
have been made out of those sums, be paid to the General Division of the High
Court and applied for the purposes specified in sub‑paragraph (2) and in the order
so specified.

 (2) Where a fixed amount is payable under the foreign confiscation order and
after that amount has been fully paid, any other sums remain in the hands of the
Public Trustee or receiver, the Public Trustee or receiver must distribute those
sums —

        (a) among such of those who held property which has been realised under
             this Act; and

        (b) in such proportions,

as the General Division of the High Court may direct after giving a reasonable
opportunity for such persons to make representations to the General Division of
the High Court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

113  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) Any sums remaining after all the payments required to be made under
sub‑paragraphs (1) and (2) have been made must be paid into the Consolidated
Fund.

Exercise of powers by General Division of High Court, etc.

 12.—(1) This paragraph applies to the powers conferred on the General
Division of the High Court by paragraphs 7 to 11 or on the Public Trustee or any
receiver pursuant to paragraph 7 or 10 or pursuant to a charging order.

 (2) Subject to sub‑paragraphs (3) to (6), the powers must be exercised with a
view to recovering property which is liable to be recovered under a foreign
confiscation order registered under section 30 or (as the case may be) with a view
to making available for recovery property which may become liable to be
recovered under any foreign confiscation order which may be made.

 (3) In the case of any subject property held by a person to whom the defendant
has, directly or indirectly, made a gift caught by this Schedule, the powers must be
exercised with a view to realising no more than the value for the time being of the
gift.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (4) Except in the case of subject property mentioned in paragraph (a) of the
definition of “subject property” in paragraph 1(1), the powers must be exercised
with a view to allowing any person other than the defendant or the recipient of any
such gift to retain or recover the value of any property held by the firstmentioned
person.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (5) An order may be made or other action taken in respect of a debt owed by the
Government.

 (6) In exercising those powers, no account is to be taken of any obligations of the
defendant or of the recipient of any such gift which conflict with the obligation to
satisfy the foreign confiscation order.

Recovery of property not to be realised

 12A.—(1) Where —

        (a) a request for assistance by an appropriate authority of a prescribed
             foreign country under section 29(1)(a) specifies that the subject
             property in question must not be realised in Singapore for the
             enforcement and satisfaction of a foreign confiscation order;

        (b) the foreign confiscation order has been registered in the General
             Division of the High Court under section 30;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          114

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

(c) the Attorney‑General reasonably believes that it is appropriate and
    practicable to give possession of the subject property to a person
    specified in the foreign confiscation order; and

(d) the Attorney‑General applies to the General Division of the High Court
     for possession of the subject property to be given to a person specified
     in the foreign confiscation order,

the General Division of the High Court may, on the application of the
Attorney‑General, exercise the powers conferred by sub‑paragraphs (2) and (3).

 (2) The General Division of the High Court may appoint the Public Trustee or
any person as receiver —

(a) to take possession of the subject property;

(b) to manage the subject property in accordance with the directions of the
     General Division of the High Court; and

(c) to give possession of the subject property to the person specified in the
    foreign confiscation order,

subject to any exceptions and conditions that the General Division of the High
Court may specify.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may order any person having
possession of the subject property to give possession of it to the Public Trustee or
any receiver.

 (4) The General Division of the High Court is not to exercise the powers
conferred by sub‑paragraphs (2) and (3) unless a reasonable opportunity has been
given to all persons holding an interest in the property to make representations to
the General Division of the High Court.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

                                                                                    [S 211/2025 wef 28/03/2025]

Bankruptcy of defendant, etc.

 13.—(1) Where a person who holds any subject property is adjudged
bankrupt —

        (a) property for the time being subject to a restraint order made before the
             order adjudging the person bankrupt;

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (b) any proceeds of property realised by virtue of paragraph 7(7) or 10(6)
             or (7) for the time being in the hands of the Public Trustee or a receiver
             pursuant to paragraph 7 or 10; and

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

115  Matters Act 2000                                             2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

        (c) any property for the time being in the hands of the Public Trustee or a
             receiver pursuant to paragraph 12A,

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

are excluded from the bankrupt’s estate for the purposes of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) Where a person has been adjudged bankrupt, the powers conferred on the
General Division of the High Court by paragraphs 7 to 11 and 12A or on the Public
Trustee or a receiver must not be exercised in relation to —

     (a) property for the time being comprised in the bankrupt’s estate for the
          purposes of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

     (b) property which is not comprised in the bankrupt’s estate by virtue of
          section 329(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
          Act 2018; and

        (c) property which is to be applied for the benefit of creditors of the
             bankrupt by virtue of a condition imposed under section 394(3)(c) of
             the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) Nothing in the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 is taken
as restricting, or enabling the restriction of, the exercise of the powers mentioned
in sub‑paragraph (2).

(4) Sub‑paragraph (2) does not affect the enforcement of a charging order —

     (a) made before the order adjudging the person bankrupt; or

     (b) on property which was subject to a restraint order when the order
          adjudging the person bankrupt was made.

 (5) Where, in the case of a debtor, an interim receiver stands appointed under
section 324 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 and any
property of the debtor is subject to a restraint order —

     (a) the powers conferred on the receiver by virtue of that Act do not apply
          to property for the time being subject to the restraint order; and

     (b) any such property in the hands of the receiver must, subject to a lien for
          any expenses (including the receiver’s remuneration) properly
          incurred in respect of the property, be dealt with in such manner as
          the General Division of the High Court may direct.

 (6) For the purposes of section 397(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018, amounts payable under foreign confiscation orders are
deemed to be debts due to the Government.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          116

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

Winding up of company holding subject property

 14.—(1) Where any subject property is held by a company and an order for the
winding up of the company has been made or a resolution has been passed by the
company for its voluntary winding up, the functions of the liquidator (or any
provisional liquidator) are not exercisable in relation to —

        (a) property for the time being subject to a restraint order made before the
             relevant time;

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (b) any proceeds of property realised by virtue of paragraph 7(7) or 10(6)
             or (7) for the time being in the hands of the Public Trustee or a receiver
             pursuant to paragraph 7 or 10; and

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (c) any property for the time being in the hands of the Public Trustee or a
             receiver pursuant to paragraph 12A,

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

but any expenses (including the remuneration of the liquidator or provisional
liquidator) properly incurred in the winding up in respect of the property are
payable out of that property.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) Where, in the case of a company, such an order has been made or such a
resolution has been passed, the powers conferred on the General Division of the
High Court by paragraphs 7 to 11 and 12A or on a receiver so appointed must not
be exercised in relation to any subject property held by the company in relation to
which the functions of the liquidator are exercisable —

(a) so as to inhibit the liquidator from exercising those functions for the
     purpose of distributing any property held by the company to the
     company’s creditors; or

        (b) so as to prevent the payment out of any property of expenses (including
             the remuneration of the liquidator or any provisional liquidator)
             properly incurred in the winding up in respect of the property.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (3) Nothing in the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 is taken
as restricting, or enabling the restriction of, the exercise of those powers
mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2).

 (4) Sub‑paragraph (2) does not affect the enforcement of a charging order made
before the relevant time or on property which was subject to a restraint order at the
relevant time.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

117                           Matters Act 2000                 2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

(5) In this paragraph —

     “company” means any company which may be wound up under the
        Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

     “relevant time” means —

     (a) where no order for the winding up of the company has been
          made — the time of the passing of the resolution for voluntary
          winding up;

     (b) where such an order has been made and, before the making of
          the application for the winding up of the company by the
          General Division of the High Court, such a resolution has been
          passed by the company — the time of the passing of the
          resolution; and

               (c) in any other case where such an order has been made — the time
                    of the making of the order.

                                                                             [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Receivers: supplementary provisions

 15. Where the Public Trustee or a receiver appointed under paragraph 7, 10 or
12A or pursuant to a charging order takes any action in relation to property which
is not any subject property, being action which the Public Trustee or receiver
would be entitled to take if it were such property, believing, and having reasonable
grounds for believing, that the Public Trustee or receiver is entitled to take that
action in relation to that property, the Public Trustee or receiver shall not be liable
to any person in respect of any loss or damage resulting from such action except
insofar as the loss or damage is caused by the negligence of the Public Trustee or
receiver.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

Compensation

 16.—(1) If a criminal investigation is begun in a prescribed foreign country
against a person for a foreign offence or offences and any of the following
circumstances occur, namely:

        (a) no criminal proceedings are instituted against that person;

        (b) criminal proceedings are instituted against that person but do not result
             in that person’s conviction for any foreign offence;

        (c) criminal proceedings are instituted against that person and that person
             is convicted of one or more foreign offences, but —

                  (i) the conviction or convictions concerned are quashed; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                  Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.          Matters Act 2000                                  118

                  THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

          (ii) that person is granted a pardon in respect of the conviction or
               convictions concerned,

the General Division of the High Court may, on application by a person who held
property which was any subject property, order compensation to be paid by the
Government to the applicant if —

        (d) the applicant has suffered loss in consequence of anything done in
             relation to the property by, or pursuant to an order of, the General
             Division of the High Court under paragraph 7, 8, 10 or 12A; and

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

        (e) having regard to all the circumstances, the General Division of the
             High Court considers it appropriate to make such an order.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court is not to order compensation to be
paid under sub‑paragraph (1) unless it is satisfied that there has been some serious
default on the part of any person concerned in the criminal investigation or
prosecution of the offence or offences concerned.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court is not to order compensation to be
paid under sub‑paragraph (1) in any case where it appears to the General Division
of the High Court that the criminal investigation would have been continued, or
the criminal proceedings would have been instituted or continued (as the case may
be) if the serious default had not occurred.

                  PART 3

          Enforcement of instrumentality forfeiture orders

Restraint orders

 17.—(1) The General Division of the High Court may in accordance with this
paragraph make a restraint order to prohibit any person, subject to any conditions
and exceptions that may be specified in the order, from dealing with any property
in respect of which an instrumentality forfeiture order has been made, or in respect
of which such an order could be made in the judicial proceedings or proceedings
before a competent authority mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2) or (3).

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (2) A restraint order may be made where —

(a) judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent authority have
     been instituted in a prescribed foreign country;

                                                                     [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

(b) the proceedings have not been concluded; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

119  Matters Act 2000                                                    2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

     (c) either an instrumentality forfeiture order has been made in the
         proceedings or it appears to the General Division of the High Court
         that there are reasonable grounds for believing that such an order may
         be made in them.

 (3) A restraint order may also be made where the General Division of the High
Court is satisfied that judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent
authority are to be instituted in a prescribed foreign country and that there are
reasonable grounds for believing that an instrumentality forfeiture order may be
made in them.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (4) Where the General Division of the High Court has made a restraint order by
virtue of sub‑paragraph (3), the General Division of the High Court is to discharge
the order if the proposed judicial proceedings or proceedings before a competent
authority are not instituted within such time as the General Division of the High
Court considers reasonable and which must not in any event exceed 3 months.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (5) A restraint order —

     (a) may be made only on an application by the Attorney‑General;

       (b) may be made on an application without notice to a Judge in chambers;
            and

                                                                             [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (c) despite anything in Order 8 of the Rules of Court 2021 (service out of
            Singapore), may provide for service on, or the provision of notice to,
            persons affected by the order in any manner that the General Division
            of the High Court may direct.

                                                                              [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

(6) A restraint order —

     (a) may be discharged or varied in relation to any property; and

        (b) must be discharged when judicial proceedings or proceedings before a
             competent authority in relation to which the order was made are
             concluded.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 28/03/2025]

 (7) Where the General Division of the High Court has made a restraint order, the
General Division of the High Court may at any time appoint the Public Trustee or
any person as receiver (called in this Part a receiver) —

     (a) to take possession of any property specified in the order; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
          Mutual Assistance in Criminal

2020 Ed.  Matters Act 2000                                          120

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

(b) in accordance with the directions of the General Division of the High
     Court, to manage or otherwise deal with any property in respect of
     which the receiver is appointed,

subject to any exceptions and conditions that the General Division of the High
Court may specify.

 (8) The General Division of the High Court may require any person having
possession of property in respect of which a receiver is appointed under
sub‑paragraph (7) to give possession of it to the receiver.

 (9) Where the General Division of the High Court has made a restraint order, an
authorised officer may, for the purpose of preventing any property specified in the
restraint order being removed from Singapore, seize the property.

 (10) Property seized under sub‑paragraph (9) must be dealt with in accordance
with the directions of the General Division of the High Court.

Disposal of forfeited property

 18.—(1) Where an instrumentality forfeiture order has been registered under
section 30, the General Division of the High Court may, on the application of the
Attorney‑General, order the forfeiture of the property specified in the
instrumentality forfeiture order.

 (2) Property forfeited under sub‑paragraph (1) must be disposed of in
accordance with the directions of the General Division of the High Court.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court must not in respect of any property
exercise the powers conferred by sub‑paragraphs (1) and (2) unless a reasonable
opportunity has been given for persons holding any interest in the property to
make representations to the General Division of the High Court.

Exercise of powers by General Division of High Court

 19.—(1) This paragraph applies to the powers conferred on the General
Division of the High Court by this paragraph and paragraph 18 or on the Public
Trustee or person appointed as receiver under paragraph 17.

 (2) The powers must be exercised with a view to recovering property which is
liable to be recovered under an instrumentality forfeiture order registered under
section 30 or (as the case may be) with a view to recovering property which may
become liable to be recovered under any instrumentality forfeiture order which
may be made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
     Mutual Assistance in Criminal

121  Matters Act 2000                                          2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

Receivers: supplementary provisions

 20. Where a receiver appointed under paragraph 17 takes any action in relation
to property which is not liable to recovery under an instrumentality forfeiture
order, being action which the receiver would be entitled to take if it were such
property, believing, and having reasonable grounds for believing, that the receiver
is entitled to take that action in relation to that property, the receiver shall not be
liable to any person in respect of any loss or damage resulting from the receiver’s
action except insofar as the loss or damage is caused by the receiver’s negligence.

Compensation

 21.—(1) If a criminal investigation is begun in a prescribed foreign country
against a person for one or more foreign offences and any of the following
circumstances occur, namely:

        (a) no criminal proceedings are instituted against that person;

        (b) criminal proceedings are instituted against that person but do not result
             in that person’s conviction for any foreign offence; or

        (c) criminal proceedings are instituted against that person and that person
             is convicted of one or more foreign offences, but —

                  (i) the conviction or convictions concerned are quashed; or

                 (ii) that person is granted a pardon in respect of the conviction or
                      convictions concerned,

the General Division of the High Court may, on application by a person who held
property and who has suffered loss in consequence of anything done in relation to
that property pursuant to an order under paragraph 18, order compensation to be
paid by the Government to the applicant if, having regard to all the circumstances,
the General Division of the High Court considers it appropriate to make such an
order.

 (2) The General Division of the High Court is not to order compensation to be
paid under sub‑paragraph (1) unless it is satisfied that there has been some serious
default on the part of any person concerned in the criminal investigation or
prosecution of the offence or offences concerned.

 (3) The General Division of the High Court is not to order compensation to be
paid under sub‑paragraph (1) in any case where it appears to the General Division
of the High Court that the criminal investigation would have been continued, or
the criminal proceedings would have been instituted or continued (as the case may
be) if the serious default had not occurred.

                                                                        [42/2005; 23/2014; 40/2018; 40/2019]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN CRIMINAL
                  MATTERS ACT 2000

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 12 of 2000 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000

Bill           : 3/2000

First Reading  : 17 January 2000

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2000

Commencement   : 1 April 2000

Note: This Act repealed provisions in the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and
        Other Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act (Chapter 84A,
        1993 Revised Edition) relating to mutual assistance, and section 43 of
        the Extradition Act (Chapter 103, 1985 Revised Edition).

2. Act 28 of 2000 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                          2000

   (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2000

First Reading  : 25 August 2000

Second and Third Readings : 9 October 2000

Commencement   : 1 November 2000 (section 10)

3. 2001 Revised Edition — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Chapter 190A)

Operation      : 31 December 2001

4. Act 24 of 2004 — Police Force Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 123(1) read with item (6) of the Second
   Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 22/2004

First Reading  : 19 May 2004

Second and Third Readings : 15 June 2004

Commencement   : 12 October 2004 (section 123(1) read
                     with item (6) of the Second Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
               ii

5. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
   (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (25) of the First Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement   : 1 April 2006 (section 5 read with
                     item (25) of the First Schedule)

6. Act 8 of 2006 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amendment)
                          Act 2006

Bill           : 2/2006

First Reading  : 16 January 2006

Second and Third Readings : 13 February 2006

Commencement   : 1 April 2006

7. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 11(9) read with item 17 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 26/2013

First Reading  : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement   : 7 March 2014 (section 11(9) read with
                     item 17 of the Schedule)

8. Act 23 of 2014 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amendment)
                           Act 2014

Bill           : 17/2014

First Reading  : 29 May 2014

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2014

Commencement   : 1 September 2014

9. G.N. No. S 349/2015 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                   (Amendment of First and Second Schedules)
                                   Notification 2015

Commencement   : 3 June 2015

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
               iii

10. G.N. No. S 684/2015 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    Notification 2015

Commencement   : 12 November 2015

11. Act 26 of 2015 — Organised Crime Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 84(3) of the above Act)

Bill           : 21/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 17 August 2015

Commencement   : 1 June 2016 (section 84(3))

12. G.N. No. S 255/2016 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    Notification 2016

Commencement   : 1 June 2016

13. G.N. No. S 305/2016 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2016

Commencement   : 1 July 2016

14. G.N. No. S 489/2017 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    Notification 2017

Commencement   : 1 September 2017

15. G.N. No. S 49/2018 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Notification 2018

Commencement   : 30 January 2018

16. Act 9 of 2018 — Cybersecurity Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 50(6) of the above Act)

Bill           : 2/2018

First Reading  : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement   : 31 August 2018 (section 50(6))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                               iv

17. G.N. No. S 847/2018 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2018

Commencement                   : 20 December 2018

18. G.N. No. S 19/2019 — 2019

Commencement                   : 8 January 2019

19. G.N. No. S 525/2019 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Notification 2019

Commencement                   : 1 August 2019

20. G.N. No. S 856/2019 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2019

Commencement                   : 1 January 2020

21. Act 44 of 2018 — Variable Capital Companies Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 167(4) of the above Act)

Bill                           : 40/2018

First Reading                  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement                   : 14 January 2020 (section 167(4))

22. G.N. No. S 36/2020 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Notification 2020

Commencement                   : 14 January 2020

23. G.N. No. S 758/2020 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 4)
                                    Notification 2020

Commencement                   : 1 June 2020

24. G.N. No. S 429/2020 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2020

Commencement                   : 3 June 2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      v

25. G.N. No. S 571/2020 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3)
                                    Notification 2020

Commencement          : 30 July 2020

26. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 495 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 495)

27. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 104 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 104 of the Schedule)

28. G.N. No. S 887/2021 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act
                                    (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                    Notification 2021

Commencement          : 21 November 2021

29. 2020 Revised Edition — Mutual Assistance in Criminal
                                     Matters Act 2000

Operation             : 31 December 2021

30. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      vi

31. G.N. No. S 247/2022 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                   (Amendment of Second and Third Schedules)
                                   Notification 2022

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

32. G.N. No. S 704/2022 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Notification 2022

Date of commencement  : 1 September 2022

33. Act 31 of 2019 — Maintenance of Religious Harmony (Amendment) Act
                            2019

Bill                  : 25/2019

First Reading         : 2 September 2019

Second and Third Readings : 7 October 2019

Commencement          : 1 November 2022 (Section 18(3))

34. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022 (sections 18 and
                            22(13))

35. Act 18 of 2022 — Financial Services and Markets Act 2022

Bill                  : 4/2022

First Reading         : 14 February 2022

Second and Third Readings : 5 April 2022

Commencement          : 28 April 2023 (Section 206)

36. G.N. No. S 529/2023 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Notification 2023

Date of commencement  : 28 July 2023

37. G.N. No. S 475/2024 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                   (Amendment of First Schedule) Notification 2024

Date of commencement  : 1 June 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
                      vii

38. G.N. No. S 12/2025 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                  (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                  Notification 2025

Date of commencement  : 8 January 2025

39. Act 42 of 2024 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amendment)
                            and Other Matters Act 2024

Bill                  : 35/2024

First Reading         : 14 October 2024

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2024

Commencement          : 28 March 2025

40. G. N. No. S 211/2025 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                    (Amendment of Third Schedule)
                                    Notification 2025

Date of commencement  : 28 March 2025

41. G.N. No. S 418/2025 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Notification 2025

Date of commencement  : 1 July 2025

42. G.N. No. S 840/2025 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule) (No. 3)
                                   Notification 2025

Date of commencement  : 30 December 2025

43. Act 10 of 2025 — Maintenance of Racial Harmony Act 2025
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 2/2025

First Reading         : 7 January 2025

Second and Third Readings : 4 February 2025

Commencement          : 15 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
