THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              TERRORISM (SUPPRESSION OF
                     BOMBINGS) ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                                                                 2020 Ed.

         Terrorism (Suppression of
            Bombings) Act 2007

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Terrorist bombing
     4.  Information about acts of terrorist bombing
     5.  Assistance in criminal matters for Convention offences
     6.  Extradition
     7.  Extraterritoriality
     8.  No prosecution without Public Prosecutor’s consent

An Act to suppress terrorist bombings, to give effect to the
  International Convention for the Suppression of Terrorist
  Bombings and for matters connected therewith.
                                                            [30 January 2008]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings) Act 2007.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “armed conflict” does not include internal disturbances and
         tensions, such as riots, isolated and sporadic acts of violence,
         and other acts of a similar nature;
      “Convention” means the International Convention for the
         Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, adopted by the General
         Assembly of the United Nations on 15 December 1997;
      “Convention country” means a foreign country that is a Party to
         the Convention;

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
          Terrorism (Suppression of

2020 Ed.  Bombings) Act 2007                                       2

“conveyance” includes any vessel, train, vehicle, aircraft and
   other mode of transport;

“country” includes a State or territory, as the case may be;

“explosive or other lethal device” means —

          (a) an explosive or other incendiary weapon or device
               that is designed, or has the capability, to cause death,
               serious bodily injury, or substantial material damage;
               or

          (b) a weapon or device that is designed, or has the
               capability, to cause death, serious bodily injury, or
               substantial material damage through the release,
               dissemination, or impact of —

          (i) toxic chemicals, biological agents or toxins or
              similar substances; or

          (ii) radiation or radioactive material;

“infrastructure facility” means any facility (whether publicly or
   privately owned) providing or distributing services for the
   benefit of the public, such as water, sewage disposal, energy,
   fuel or communications;

“military forces of a State” means —

          (a) the armed forces of a State which are organised,
               trained and equipped under its internal law for the
               primary purpose of national defence or security;

          (b) civilians who direct or organise the official activities
               of those armed forces; or

          (c) civilians acting in support of the official activities of
              those armed forces, if the civilians are under the
              formal command, control and responsibility of those
              forces;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
   Terrorism (Suppression of

3  Bombings) Act 2007                                       2020 Ed.

   “place of public use” —

   (a) means those parts of any building, land, street or
        waterway or other location that are accessible or open
        to members of the public, whether continuously,
        periodically or occasionally, and whether for free or
        on payment of a charge; and

   (b) includes any commercial, business, cultural,
        historical, educational, religious, governmental,
        entertainment, recreational, or similar place that is
        so accessible or open to the public;

   “public transportation system” means all conveyances, facilities,
      buildings and objects (whether publicly or privately owned)
      used in or for services that are available to the public for the
      transportation of persons or cargo;

   “State or government facility” means any conveyance or facility
      (whether permanent or temporary) used or occupied by any
      of the following persons in connection with their official
      duties:

   (a) a representative of any government;

   (b) the Head of State of any country;

   (c) the Prime Minister or a minister of any country;

   (d) a member of the legislature or judiciary of any
        country;

   (e) an official or employee of any government or of any
       intergovernmental organisation;

   “terrorist bombing offence” means —

   (a) any of the offences under section 3;

   (b) conspiracy to commit any of those offences;

   (c) inciting another to commit any of those offences;

   (d) attempting to commit any of those offences; or

   (e) aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the
       commission of any of those offences.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                   Terrorism (Suppression of

2020 Ed.           Bombings) Act 2007                              4

Terrorist bombing

 3.—(1) Every person who intentionally and without lawful excuse
delivers, places, discharges or detonates an explosive or other lethal
device in, into or against —

(a) a place of public use;

(b) a State or government facility;

          (c) a public transportation system; or

(d) an infrastructure facility,

with intent to cause death or serious bodily injury, or extensive
destruction of such place, facility or system that results in or is likely
to result in major economic loss, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall on conviction —

          (e) if he or she had intended to cause death or serious bodily
              injury and death is caused, be punished with death; or

      (f) in any other case, be punished with life imprisonment.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to —

(a) the activities of armed forces during an armed conflict, as
     those terms are understood under international
     humanitarian law, which are governed by that law; or

(b) activities undertaken by military forces of a State in the
     exercise of their official duties, to the extent that those
     activities are governed by other rules of international law.

Information about acts of terrorist bombing

 4.—(1) Every person in Singapore who has information which the
person knows or believes may be of material assistance —

       (a) in preventing the commission by another person of a
            terrorist bombing offence; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
   Terrorism (Suppression of

5  Bombings) Act 2007                                       2020 Ed.

   (b) in securing the apprehension, prosecution or conviction of
        another person, in Singapore, for a terrorist bombing
        offence,

and who fails to disclose the information immediately to a police
officer shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (2) No criminal or civil proceedings shall lie against a person for
any disclosure made in good faith under this section.

 (3) A person who makes a disclosure in good faith under this
section is not to be treated as being in breach of any restriction upon
the disclosure of information imposed by law, contract or rules of
professional conduct.

Assistance in criminal matters for Convention offences

 5.—(1) For the purposes of the provision of assistance under Part 3
of the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000 to a foreign
country for a criminal matter involving a relevant offence of that
country, the relevant offence is deemed not to be an offence of a
political character.

 (2) In this section —

      “criminal matter” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 2000;

      “relevant offence”, in relation to a foreign country, means an
         offence against the law of that country that consists of or
         includes conduct which, if it had occurred in Singapore,
         would have constituted a terrorist bombing offence.

Extradition

 6.—(1) Every terrorism bombing offence is deemed to be an
extradition offence under the Extradition Act 1968.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
             Terrorism (Suppression of

2020 Ed.     Bombings) Act 2007                                    6

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where no extradition treaty is in force
between Singapore and a Convention country, a notification in the
Gazette under section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968 may be made
applying that Act as if there were an extradition treaty between
Singapore and that country.

 (3) Where the Extradition Act 1968 is applied under subsection (2),
that Act has effect in relation to that country as if the only extradition
offences under that Act were the relevant offences of that country.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect any other notification made under
section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968.

(5) Where —

(a) an extradition treaty is in force between Singapore and a
     Convention country; and

(b) the treaty does not provide for the extradition of persons
     accused of or convicted of a relevant offence of that
     country,

a notification in the Gazette under section 4 of the Extradition
Act 1968 may be made applying that Act in relation to that country as
if the treaty provided for the matter mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (6) Where a notification mentioned in subsection (5) is made, any
limitation, condition, exception or qualification specified in any other
notification made under section 4 of the Extradition Act 1968 in
relation to that country is, to the extent that it prevents the relevant
offence from being considered an extradition offence in relation to
that country, to be disregarded in the application of that Act in relation
to that country.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

 (7) For the purposes of the Extradition Act 1968 —

(a) any act, wherever committed, which is a relevant offence
     of a Convention country in the case of which that Act has
     been applied by a notification in the Gazette made under
     section 4 of that Act, is deemed to be an offence within the
     jurisdiction of that country; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
   Terrorism (Suppression of

7  Bombings) Act 2007                                       2020 Ed.

       (b) any such offence is deemed not to be an offence of a
            political character.

 (8) In this section, “relevant offence”, in relation to a Convention
country, means an offence against the law of, or of part of, that
country where the act or omission constituting the offence or the
equivalent act or omission would, if it took place in or within the
jurisdiction of Singapore —

   (a) constitute a terrorist bombing offence; or

   (b) be such an offence if the description concerned contained a
        reference to any intent or state of mind on the part of the
        person committing the offence, or to any circumstance of
        aggravation, necessary to constitute the offence.

                       [Act 17 of 2022 wef 01/07/2022]

Extraterritoriality

 7. Every person who, outside Singapore, commits an act or
omission that, if committed in Singapore, would constitute a
terrorist bombing offence is deemed to commit the act or omission
in Singapore and may be proceeded against, charged, tried and
punished accordingly.

No prosecution without Public Prosecutor’s consent

 8. A prosecution under this Act must not be instituted except by or
with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               TERRORISM (SUPPRESSION OF
                     BOMBINGS) ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 50 of 2007 — Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings) Act 2007

Bill           : 37/2007

First Reading  : 17 September 2007

Second and Third Readings : 23 October 2007

Commencement   : 30 January 2008

2. 2008 Revised Edition — Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings) Act
                                    (Chapter 324A)

Operation      : 31 December 2008

3. 2020 Revised Edition — Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings) Act 2007

Operation      : 31 December 2021

4. Act 17 of 2022 — Extradition (Amendment) Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2022

First Reading  : 7 March 2022

Second and Third Readings : 4 April 2022

Commencement   : 1 July 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2022
