THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                 GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
                  VOUCHER FUND ACT 2012

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Goods and Services Tax
Voucher Fund Act 2012

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

           GOODS AND SERVICES TAX VOUCHER FUND

3. Establishment of Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund
4. Purposes of Fund
5. Expenses
6. Withdrawals
7. Dissolution of Fund

                                        PART 3

                         ADMINISTRATION OF FUND

 8. Responsibility for Fund
 8A. Financial assistance not of right
 9. Disclosure of information
10. Confidentiality of information
11. Recovery of sums overpaid, etc.
12. Financial year
13. Accounts
14. Financial statements and audit
15. Presentation of financial statements and auditor’s report to

         Parliament

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Goods and Services Tax

2020 Ed.  Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    2

          PART 4

          MISCELLANEOUS

Section   Offences
          Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   16.    Composition of offences
   17.    Regulations
   18.
   19.

An Act to establish the Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund, and
  for matters connected therewith.

                                                            [1 February 2013]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund Act 2012.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Fund” means the Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund
         established under section 3;
      “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
         under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function.

                                    PART 2

         GOODS AND SERVICES TAX VOUCHER FUND

Establishment of Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund

 3.—(1) A fund called the Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund is
established, which must be held, managed and administered as a
Government fund.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Goods and Services Tax

3  Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    2020 Ed.

   (2) There must be paid into the Fund —

   (a) all moneys from time to time appropriated from the
        Consolidated Fund and authorised to be paid into the Fund
        by any written law;

   (b) all other revenues of Singapore allocated by any written
        law to the Fund;

   (c) all gifts and donations given or made by any person or
       organisation to the Government for the purposes of the
       Fund; and

   (d) all investments out of moneys in the Fund authorised to be
        made by any written law and the proceeds of any such
        investment, including the net income from those
        investments.

 (3) The Fund must be regarded as comprising public moneys for the
purposes of any other written law.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2)(d), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Fund
any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may be) from the
realisation of the investments.

 (5) The Financial Procedure Act 1966 applies to the Fund to the
extent that it is not inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Act.

Purposes of Fund

 4.—(1) The moneys in the Fund may be withdrawn and applied for
all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to provide financial assistance (including cash grants,
            grants‑in‑aid, rebates, reliefs, subsidies and credits) under
            a public scheme to such natural persons as may be
            prescribed, in order to mitigate the impact of the goods
            and services tax on their living expenses;

       (b) the payment of expenses mentioned in section 5;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Goods and Services Tax

2020 Ed.  Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    4

       (c) for any other purposes that are authorised under this Act to
            be paid out of the Fund.

                                                                                                           [19/2020]

 (2) The moneys in the Fund may be deposited in any bank account
and invested in any investment authorised under the Financial
Procedure Act 1966.

Expenses

 5. Unless otherwise provided, all expenses incidental to or arising
from the administration, investment and management of moneys in
the Fund are charged upon and payable out of the Fund, including but
not limited to the following expenses:

       (a) the cost of auditing the accounts of the Fund and the
            remuneration of the auditor;

       (b) the expenses incurred by any person (other than the
            remuneration and allowances payable to a public officer)
            whom the Minister has —

               (i) authorised to perform and discharge any of the
                   functions and purposes of the Fund; or

              (ii) appointed under section 8 to disburse financial
                   assistance under a public scheme using moneys in
                   the Fund and to do any matter connected therewith or
                   incidental thereto.

Withdrawals

 6.—(1) Moneys must not be withdrawn from the Fund unless they
are charged upon the Fund or are authorised to be withdrawn or
transferred under this Act.

 (2) A payment must not be made out of the Fund unless the
payment is approved by the Minister or a person authorised, in
writing, by the Minister.

Dissolution of Fund

 7. Upon dissolution of the Fund during any term of office of the
Government (within the meaning of the Constitution), the balance of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Goods and Services Tax

5  Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    2020 Ed.

the moneys remaining in the Fund must be transferred to the
Consolidated Fund and be added to the reserves of the Government
not accumulated by it during that term of office.

                                    PART 3

                     ADMINISTRATION OF FUND

Responsibility for Fund

 8.—(1) The Minister is responsible for the management and
administration of the Fund.

 (2) The Minister may appoint any public authority or other person
as the Minister thinks fit to disburse financial assistance under a
public scheme using moneys in the Fund and to do any matter
connected therewith or incidental thereto, and the public authority or
other person so appointed must do so in accordance with this Act and,
subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister’s directions.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2A) An appointment under subsection (2) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) Where a public authority is appointed by the Minister under
subsection (2) to disburse financial assistance under a public scheme
using moneys in the Fund —

       (a) it is the function and duty of the public authority to do so in
            accordance with that subsection, in addition to the
            functions and duties imposed on it under any other
            written law; and

       (b) the public authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes
            of the relevant Act constituting that public authority, and
            the provisions of that Act apply to the public authority in
            respect of that function and duty.

Financial assistance not of right

 8A. No person has an absolute right to any financial assistance
under a public scheme using moneys from the Fund.

                                                                                                           [19/2020]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Goods and Services Tax

2020 Ed.  Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    6

Disclosure of information

 9.—(1) Where the Minister, under his or her hand, certifies that it is
necessary for a public authority or person appointed under
section 8(2) (called in this section the recipient organisation) to
have access to any confidential information in the possession of
another public authority, in order to disburse financial assistance
under a public scheme using moneys in the Fund —

(a) the Minister charged with the responsibility for that other
     public authority may, in addition to any other power
     conferred by any written law, direct that other public
     authority to provide so much of the confidential
     information to the recipient organisation as is necessary
     for that purpose; and

(b) that other public authority must comply with the direction
     under paragraph (a), whether or not it is under any
     obligation (imposed by written law or otherwise) not to
     disclose the information.

(2) Despite the provisions of this Act or any other written law —

(a) no person shall be guilty of an offence under any written
     law or of any breach of confidence or incur any other civil
     liability, by virtue merely of the person disclosing any
     information in accordance with any direction under
     subsection (1); and

(b) no officer of a recipient organisation shall be guilty of an
     offence under any written law or incur any liability,
     criminal or civil, by virtue merely of the officer accessing,
     or disclosing to another officer of that recipient
     organisation, any confidential information mentioned in
     subsection (1) in the performance of the officer’s duties
     connected with disbursing financial assistance under a
     public scheme using moneys in the Fund.

 (3) Nothing in this section applies to any document, information,
return and assessment to which section 6 of the Income Tax Act 1947
applies.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Goods and Services Tax

7  Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    2020 Ed.

Confidentiality of information

 10.—(1) If a public authority or person appointed under
section 8(2) in the course of exercising any function or performing
any duty under this Act is in possession of or obtains confidential
information pursuant to a direction under section 9(1), the public
authority or person must not disclose the information to any other
person unless the disclosure —

   (a) is made with the written consent of the person to whom the
        information relates; or

   (b) is for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of
        this Act.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Recovery of sums overpaid, etc.

 11. Where any amount of money in the Fund is withdrawn and
paid —

       (a) to a person as financial assistance under a public scheme
            and the person is not eligible under the public scheme to
            any financial assistance or is eligible for financial
            assistance of a lower amount;

       (b) for any expenses mentioned in section 5, without
            authorisation or in excess of authorisation;

       (c) to a public authority or person appointed by the Minister
            under section 8(2) to disburse financial assistance under a
            public scheme using moneys in the Fund, without
            authorisation or in excess of authorisation; or

       (d) for any other purposes which are not authorised or in
            excess of authorisation under this Act,

the amount that has been paid or paid in excess (as the case may be) is
recoverable as a debt due to the Government.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                Goods and Services Tax

2020 Ed.        Voucher Fund Act 2012                              8

Financial year

 12. The financial year of the Fund begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Accounts

 13. The Minister must —

       (a) cause to be kept proper accounts and records of all
            transactions and affairs relating to the Fund;

       (b) do all things necessary to ensure that payments out of the
            Fund are properly authorised and correctly made; and

       (c) ensure that adequate control is maintained over the assets
            and receipts of the Fund.

Financial statements and audit

 14.—(1) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of
each financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted financial
statements and accounts of the Fund in respect of the financial year to
the Auditor‑General who must audit or cause an audit of the
statements and accounts and report on them.

 (2) As soon as the accounts of the Fund and the financial statements
have been audited, a copy of the audited financial statements,
together with a copy of any report made by the Auditor‑General, must
be submitted to the Minister.

 (3) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of the Fund, a
copy of the audited financial statements and any report made by the
auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor‑General.

Presentation of financial statements and auditor’s report to
Parliament

 15. The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause a copy of the
audited financial statements of the Fund and the auditor’s report to be
presented to Parliament.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Goods and Services Tax

9         Voucher Fund Act 2012                                    2020 Ed.

          PART 4

          MISCELLANEOUS

Offences

 16. Any person who, in relation to any application (whether by the
person or on behalf of another) to a public authority or person
appointed under section 8(2) for any financial assistance from the
Fund or for the purpose of obtaining any financial assistance from the
Fund —

   (a) knowingly or recklessly makes any false statement; or

   (b) produces or provides or causes or knowingly allows to be
        produced or provided any document which the person
        knows to be false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 17.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                       Goods and Services Tax

2020 Ed.               Voucher Fund Act 2012                       10

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of the officer or
     member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in that capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of such a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in that capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Composition of offences

 18.—(1) Any public officer authorised by the Minister may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                 Goods and Services Tax

11               Voucher Fund Act 2012                       2020 Ed.

suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the
lower of the following:

    (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
         prescribed for the offence;

    (b) $1,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the offences
that may be compounded.

Regulations

 19.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may —

       (a) provide for matters relating to the use of the moneys from
            the Fund and for all matters connected therewith and
            incidental thereto, including natural persons or classes of
            natural persons eligible for financial assistance under a
            public scheme, and the amount, manner of and the terms
            and conditions for providing the financial assistance;

       (b) provide for such information, evidence and documents as
            may be required for carrying out the purposes and
            provisions of this Act;

       (c) prescribe that any act or omission in contravention of any
            regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
            exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or with both; and

       (d) prescribe anything that may be prescribed under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
                VOUCHER FUND ACT 2012

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 31 of 2012 — Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund Act 2012

Bill           : 30/2012

First Reading  : 15 October 2012

Second and Third Readings : 14 November 2012

Commencement   : 1 February 2013

2. 2013 Revised Edition — Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund Act
                                    (Chapter 117C)

Operation      : 31 August 2013

3. Act 19 of 2020 — Goods and Services Tax Voucher Fund (Amendment)
                           Act 2020

Bill           : 14/2020

First Reading  : 5 March 2020

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 2020

Commencement   : 22 May 2020

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Goods and Services Tax
                                    Voucher Fund Act 2012

Operation      : 31 December 2021

5. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
