THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN MANPOWER ACT 1990

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                             Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                            THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                                                                      2020 Ed.

Employment of Foreign Manpower
                Act 1990

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
     1.   Interpretation
     2.   Meaning of “personal identifier”
     2A.  Appointment of Controller of Work Passes and employment
     3.   inspectors, etc.
          Controller and employment inspectors to be public servants
     3A.  Exemption
     4.

                                        PART 2

                                   WORK PASSES

 5. Prohibition of employment of foreign employee without work
         pass

 6. Presumption of employment
 6A. Prohibition of foreigner without work pass entering or remaining

         at work place
 7. Application for work pass
 8. Register of foreign employees to be kept by employer
 9. Termination of employment of foreign employees
10. Self-employed foreigners to apply for work passes
11. Levy in respect of foreign employee or self-employed foreigner
12. Extent of validity of work pass
13. Custody of work pass, etc.
14. Loss, etc., of work pass
15. Burden of proof, etc.

                                                    1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                            2

          PART 3

          ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

Section   Powers of authorised officers and employment inspectors
          Change of address
   16.    Service of notices
   17.    Protection from personal liability
   18.
   19.

          PART 4

          OFFENCES

20.       Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
21.       Power to arrest without warrant
21A.      Arrest how made
21B.      No unnecessary restraint
21C.      Search of persons arrested
21D.      Employment inspector to be armed
21E.      Power to seize offensive weapons
21F.      Power on escape to pursue and arrest
21G.      Disposal of documents or articles
22.       General offences
22A.      Restrictions on receipt, etc., of moneys in connection with
          employment of foreign employee
22B.      Proscribed manpower-related practices
23.       Abetment of offences
23A.      Orders for payment of proceeds of crime
24.       Complaint by employment inspector

          PART 5

          PRESCRIBED INFRINGEMENTS

25.       General prescribed infringements
25A.      Compliance with prescribed duties
25B.      Directions
25C.      Proceedings for prescribed infringements
25D.      Recovery of financial penalties
25E.      Prescribed infringements by bodies corporate, etc.
25F.      Abetment of prescribed infringements
25G.      Appeals to Appeal Board
25H.      Composition and procedure of Appeal Board

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
         Employment of Foreign

3        Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

         PART 6

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Jurisdiction of Courts
         Composition of offences
   26.   Forms
   27.   Regulations
   28.   Transitional provisions
   29.   The Schedule — Personal Identifiers
   30.

An Act relating to the employment of foreign manpower.
                                                              [1 January 1991]

              PART 1
         PRELIMINARY

                                                                   [24/2012]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act 1990.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Appeal Board” means the Appeal Board established by the
         Minister under section 25H;

      “authorised officer”, in relation to any provision in this Act,
         means any public officer authorised in that behalf by the
         Minister for the purposes of that provision;

      “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership
         registered under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

      “construction works” means the construction, extension,
         installation, carrying out, repair, maintenance, renewal,
         removal, alteration, dismantling or demolition of —

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         4

          (a) any building, erection, edifice, structure, wall, fence
               or chimney, whether constructed wholly or partly
               above or below ground level;

          (b) any road, motorway, harbour works, railway,
               cableway, canal or aerodrome;

          (c) any drainage, irrigation or river control work;

          (d) any electrical, water, gas or telecommunication
               works; or

          (e) any bridge, viaduct, dam, reservoir, earthworks,
              pipeline, sewer, aqueduct, culvert, drive, shaft,
              tunnel or reclamation,

          and includes any works which form an integral part of, or are
          preparatory to the works described in paragraphs (a) to (e),
          including site clearance, earth-moving, excavation, laying of
          foundation, site restoration and landscaping, and such other
          works or activities as the Minister may, by notification in the
          Gazette, specify to be construction works;

“Controller” means the Controller of Work Passes appointed
   under section 3;

“debarred”, in relation to a person, means a person who is
   debarred under section 7(5)(d) from applying for, or being
   issued with, a work pass;

“employ” means to engage or use the service of any person for
   the purpose of —

          (a) any work; or

          (b) providing any training for that person,

          whether under a contract of service or otherwise, and with or
          without salary;

“employer” means any person employing a foreign employee,
   and includes —

          (a) for the purposes of an application for a work
               pass — any person who has the intention or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Employment of Foreign

5  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

   purports to have the intention to employ a foreign
   employee; or

   (b) in a case where a foreign employee has or had a valid
        work pass — any person specified in the work pass as
        the employer of the foreign employee;

   “employment inspector” means the Controller and any person
      appointed as an employment inspector under section 3;

   “foreign employee” means —

   (a) any foreigner, other than a self-employed foreigner,
        who seeks or is offered employment in Singapore; or

   (b) any other person or class of persons as the Minister
        may, by notification in the Gazette, specify;

   “foreigner” means any person who is not a citizen of Singapore
      or permanent resident of Singapore;

                                                                          [Act 31 of 2023 wef 31/12/2024]

   “in-principle approval” means the in-principle approval of an
      application for a work pass issued by the Controller under
      section 7(3);

   “levy” means the levy imposed under section 11;

   “occupier”, in relation to any premises, includes —

   (a) the person having the charge, management or control
        of either the whole or part of the premises either on
        the person’s own account or as an agent; and

   (b) any person who is carrying out construction or other
        works at the premises on behalf of some other person;

   “permanent resident of Singapore” has the meaning given by
      section 2 of the Immigration Act 1959;

                               [Act 31 of 2023 wef 01/12/2025]

   “premises” includes —

   (a) any building or structure, whether permanent or
        temporary;

   (b) any land, whether or not built on;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         6

          (c) any place, whether or not enclosed, including any
              place situated underground or underwater;

          (d) any vehicle, vessel or aircraft; and

          (e) any part of any premises;

“prescribed infringement” means —

          (a) any contravention of section 9(1), 25(1), (2), (3) or
               (4) or 25A(2);

          (b) any contravention of any provision in the regulations
               made under this Act that is prescribed as a prescribed
               infringement; or

          (c) the abetment, within the meaning of section 25F, of
              any contravention mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

“regulatory condition” means a condition of an in-principle
   approval or a work pass that —

          (a) is prescribed by the Minister as a regulatory
               condition; or

          (b) is imposed by the Controller under section 7 as a
               regulatory condition;

“self-employed foreigner” means any foreigner who, not being
   employed under a contract of service, seeks to engage in or
   engages in —

          (a) any trade, vocation or profession, whether for the
               purpose of gain or otherwise; or

          (b) any other activity in Singapore for the purpose of
               gain;

“train”, in relation to a foreign employee, means to teach,
   instruct or educate the foreign employee in relation to the
   work in which the foreign employee is employed or to be
   employed;

“valid work pass” means a work pass that is valid in accordance
   with section 12;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Employment of Foreign

7  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

   “work pass” means a work pass belonging to any prescribed
      category of work passes which is issued by the Controller
      under section 7.

                                                             [24/2012]

Meaning of “personal identifier”

 2A.—(1) In this Act, “personal identifier” means any of the
identifiers specified in the Schedule (including any in digital form).

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule,
except that any other personal identifier so prescribed in the order
must —

       (a) be an image of, or a measurement or recording of, an
            external part of the human body; and

       (b) not be an identifier the obtaining of which would involve
            the taking of an invasive sample within the meaning given
            by section 8 of the Registration of Criminals Act 1949.

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

Appointment of Controller of Work Passes and employment
inspectors, etc.

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint —

       (a) a Controller of Work Passes who has such functions and
            powers as are conferred on him or her by this Act; and

       (b) any number of Deputy Controllers of Work Passes and
            Assistant Controllers of Work Passes as the Minister may
            think necessary to assist the Controller in the proper
            discharge of the Controller’s functions.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) The Deputy Controllers of Work Passes and the Assistant
Controllers of Work Passes have, and may exercise and perform, all
the powers, duties and functions of the Controller conferred by this
Act (except the power of delegation conferred by subsection (4)),
subject to such limitations as the Controller may think fit to impose.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         8

 (3) The Minister may appoint any number of employment
inspectors as the Minister may think fit for carrying out the
purposes of this Act.

 (4) The Controller may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
functions or powers conferred on him or her by this Act (except the
power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to one or more
authorised officers, subject to such conditions or limitations as set out
in this Act or as the Controller may specify in writing; and any
reference in this Act to the Controller includes a reference to such an
authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) For the purposes of this Act, an authorised officer may be given
any title as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, specify.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Controller and employment inspectors to be public servants

 3A. The Controller and every Deputy Controller of Work Passes,
Assistant Controller of Work Passes and employment inspector
appointed under section 3 are to be public servants within the
meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Exemption

 4. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

               PART 2
          WORK PASSES

                                                                    [24/2012]

Prohibition of employment of foreign employee without work
pass

 5.—(1) A person must not employ a foreign employee unless the
foreign employee has a valid work pass.

 (2) A foreign employee must not be in the employment of an
employer without a valid work pass.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
   Employment of Foreign

9  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

 (3) A person must not employ a foreign employee otherwise than in
accordance with the conditions of the foreign employee’s work pass.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is not
a defence for a defendant to prove that the defendant did not know
that the employee was a foreigner unless the defendant further proves
that the defendant had exercised due diligence to ascertain the
nationality of the employee.

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (4), a defendant is not to be
deemed to have exercised due diligence unless the defendant had
checked the passport, document of identity or other travel document
of the employee.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall —

   (a) be liable on conviction to a fine of at least $5,000 and not
        more than $30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
        exceeding 12 months or to both; and

   (b) on a second or subsequent conviction —

   (i) in the case of an individual — be punished with a fine
       of at least $10,000 and not more than $30,000 and
       with imprisonment for a term of not less than one
       month and not more than 12 months; or

              (ii) in any other case — be punished with a fine of at
                   least $20,000 and not more than $60,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         10

(9) For the purposes of this section —

(a) to avoid doubt, where a person has been convicted of an
     offence under subsection (6), and the person has on a
     previous occasion been convicted for contravening
     section 5(1) of the Employment of Foreign Workers Act
     (Cap. 91A, 1997 Revised Edition) in force immediately
     before 1 July 2007, the firstmentioned conviction shall be
     considered a second or subsequent conviction under
     subsection (6); and

(b) all convictions against the same person for the
     contravention of subsection (1) at one and the same trial
     shall be deemed to be one conviction.

                                                                                                 [24/2012]

Presumption of employment

 6. Where a foreigner is found at any premises, the occupier of the
premises is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have employed
the foreigner.

Prohibition of foreigner without work pass entering or
remaining at work place

 6A.—(1) An occupier of a work place who has control of access to
the work place must not permit any foreigner without a valid work
pass to enter or remain at the work place.

 (2) Where a foreigner without a valid work pass is found at any
work place, it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the
occupier of the work place —

       (a) had control of access to the work place;

       (b) had permitted the foreigner to enter or remain at the work
            place; and

       (c) had knowledge that the foreigner did not possess a valid
            work pass.

 (3) The presumptions provided for in subsection (2) are not to be
rebutted by proof that a defendant did not know that the person was a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                       Employment of Foreign

11                     Manpower Act 1990                      2020 Ed.

foreigner unless the defendant further proves that the defendant had
exercised due diligence —

    (a) to prevent the foreigner from entering or remaining at the
         work place;

    (b) to ascertain that the person was a citizen of Singapore or
         permanent resident of Singapore by checking the person’s
         passport, document of identity or other travel documents;
         or

                                                                        [Act 31 of 2023 wef 31/12/2024]

    (c) to ascertain that the foreigner had at the material time in his
         or her possession a valid work pass by checking his or her
         original work pass.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(a), a defendant is not to be
deemed to have exercised due diligence unless the defendant had
taken all reasonable measures to prevent any foreigner without a valid
work pass from entering or remaining at the work place, including all
the measures prescribed under subsection (5) in respect of the work
place.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the Minister may, by
notification in the Gazette, prescribe the measures that are required to
be taken by the occupier of the work place.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

    (a) on conviction to a fine not exceeding $15,000 or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
         both; and

    (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
         exceeding $30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 2 years or to both.

(7) In this section —

    “occupier”, in relation to a work place, means the principal
       contractor who undertakes any construction works at the
       work place and includes any other person as the Minister

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         12

          may, by notification in the Gazette, specify to be the occupier
          of the work place;

“principal contractor” means a person who has entered into a
   contract with an owner, a developer or a lessee of a property,
   or an agent of the owner, developer or lessee, for the purpose
   of carrying out any construction works, or such other works
   or activities as the Minister may, by notification in the
   Gazette, specify;

“work place” means any place or premises where works are
   being carried out and includes any premises within the
   vicinity of the work place to which the occupier has control of
   access.

 (8) To avoid doubt, where a person has been convicted of an
offence under subsection (6), and the person has on a previous
occasion been convicted for contravening section 6A(1) of the
Employment of Foreign Workers Act (Cap. 91A, 1997 Revised
Edition) in force immediately before 1 July 2007, the firstmentioned
conviction shall be considered a second or subsequent conviction
under subsection (6).

 (9) All convictions against the same person for the contravention of
subsection (1) at one and the same trial shall be deemed to be one
conviction.

 (10) Nothing in this section prevents any person from being
prosecuted under any other provision of this Act for any act or
omission which constitutes an offence under that other provision, but
no person shall be punished twice for the same offence.

Application for work pass

 7.—(1) Every application for a work pass must —

       (a) where the work pass belongs to any category of work
            passes prescribed by the Minister, be made by a person
            prescribed for that category of work passes;

       (b) be in any form as the Controller may determine;

       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed fee, if any; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

13  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

    (d) be accompanied by such information, statements and
         documents as the Controller may require.

 (2) On receiving an application under subsection (1), the Controller
may —

    (a) issue a work pass, with or without conditions —

    (i) if the prescribed fee has been paid; and

    (ii) if the Controller is satisfied that the foreign employee
         or self-employed foreigner to whom the work pass is
         to be issued is not a prohibited immigrant under
         section 8 of the Immigration Act 1959; or

    (b) refuse to issue any work pass.

 (3) The Controller may, before issuing a work pass under
subsection (2), issue an in-principle approval of the application for
the work pass subject to such conditions as the Controller may think
fit to impose.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) A work pass may, on payment of the prescribed renewal fee, be
renewed by the Controller for any period as the Controller may
determine, starting from the day immediately following the day on
which the work pass would have expired but for that renewal.

(5) The Controller may at any time —

    (a) vary or revoke any of the existing conditions of a work pass
         or impose new conditions;

    (b) cancel any in-principle approval, or vary, suspend or
         revoke a work pass;

    (c) reinstate a work pass which has been suspended or
        revoked, if the prescribed fee has been paid; or

       (d) debar any person from applying for or being issued with a
            work pass for any fixed period of time as the Controller
            may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (6) For the purposes of this section, the Controller may, in relation
to a foreign employee —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         14

(a) impose conditions that the employer of the foreign
     employee must comply with —

          (i) relating to the employment of the foreign employee;
              or

          (ii) relating to the foreign employee, after the
               in‑principle approval or the work pass relating to
               that foreign employee is cancelled or revoked or
               expires; and

       (b) impose conditions that the foreign employee must comply
            with relating to his or her employment as a foreign
            employee.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (7) In the exercise of any power under subsection (5)(a) or (6), the
Controller must not —

(a) vary or revoke any existing condition of a work pass to
     become inconsistent with any condition prescribed by the
     Minister by regulations under section 29(2)(c); or

(b) impose any new condition for a work pass that is
     inconsistent with any condition prescribed by the
     Minister by regulations under section 29(2)(c),

and any condition varied, revoked or imposed by the Controller
which is so inconsistent shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, be
void.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (8) In determining whether a person should be debarred under
subsection (5)(d) from applying for or being issued with a work pass,
the Controller may have regard to such considerations as the
Controller deems appropriate, including but not limited to —

(a) whether the person has acted, or is acting, in concert with
     or on the direction of a debarred person for or in connection
     with the employment of any foreign employee; or

(b) whether the person, as an associate of a debarred person, is
     engaged in a trade or business which is substantially
     similar to any trade or business of the debarred person.

                                                                                                 [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

15  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

(9) For the purposes of subsection (8)(b) —

    (a) a person is an associate of an individual —

    (i) if the person is the individual’s spouse, or if the
        person is a relative, or the spouse of a relative of the
        individual or his or her spouse;

    (ii) if the person is in partnership with the individual, or
         the individual is the spouse or a relative of any other
         person with whom the firstmentioned person is in
         partnership;

    (iii) if the person employs the individual or the individual
          employs the person, and for this purpose, any
          director or other officer of a person that is a
          company must be treated as employed by that
          company;

    (b) a person in his or her capacity as trustee of a trust is an
         associate of an individual if the beneficiaries of the trust
         include, or the terms of the trust confer a power that may be
         exercised for the benefit of, that individual or an associate
         of that individual;

    (c) a company is an associate of an individual if that individual
        has control of it or if that individual and persons who are
        his or her associates together have control of it;

    (d) for the purposes of paragraph (a), a person is a relative of
         an individual if the person is that individual’s brother,
         sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, lineal ancestor or lineal
         descendant;

    (e) any reference in this subsection to a spouse includes a
        former spouse;

    (f) for the purposes of paragraph (c), an individual is taken to
        have control of a company if —

    (i) the directors of the company or of another company
        which has control of it (or any of them) are
        accustomed to act in accordance with the
        individual’s directions or instructions; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         16

          (ii) the individual is entitled to exercise, or control the
               exercise of, one-third or more of the voting power at
               any general meeting of the company or of another
               company which has control of it,

          (f) and where 2 or more persons together satisfy
              sub‑paragraph (i) or (ii), they are taken to have control
              of the company; and

       (g) in this subsection, “company” includes any body corporate
            (whether incorporated in Singapore or elsewhere), and
            references to directors and other officers of a company and
            to voting power at any general meeting of a company are to
            have effect with any necessary modifications.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (10) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Controller
under subsection (2), (4) or (5) may appeal to the Minister, whose
decision is final.

 (11) There is to be no judicial review in any court of any decision or
act of the Minister or the Controller under this section, except in
regard to any question relating to compliance with any procedural
requirement of this Act governing such decision.

 (12) In subsection (11), “judicial review” includes proceedings
instituted by way of —

(a) an application for a Mandatory Order, a Prohibiting Order
     or a Quashing Order;

(b) an application for a declaration or an injunction;

          (c) an Order for Review of Detention; and

(d) any other suit or action relating to or arising out of any
     decision made or act done pursuant to any power conferred
     upon the Minister or the Controller by this section.

Register of foreign employees to be kept by employer

 8.—(1) An employer must keep a register of foreign employees to
whom work passes have been issued under section 7.

                                                                                                           [27/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

17  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

 (2) The register must be in such form, and must contain such
particulars, as the Controller may determine.

 (3) The register must, at all reasonable times, be open to inspection
by an employment inspector.

Termination of employment of foreign employees

 9.—(1) Where the Controller has decided to suspend or revoke the
work pass of a foreign employee under section 7(5), the Controller
must notify the employer of the foreign employee of his or her
decision and the employer of the foreign employee must, within
7 days of receiving the notification, terminate the employment of the
foreign employee.

 (2) Every employer of a foreign employee who intends to have the
work pass of the foreign employee cancelled must —

       (a) apply to the Controller to cancel the work pass; and

       (b) if so required, return the work pass to the Controller within
            7 days of such cancellation.

 (3) Where any employer contravenes subsection (1), the Controller
may impose on the employer a financial penalty of an amount, not
exceeding $10,000, as the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) Any employer who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) The termination of the employment of a foreign employee under
subsection (1) is not to be —

       (a) capable of negotiation with a trade union representing the
            foreign employee;

       (b) a matter in respect of which any form of industrial action
            may be taken by any such trade union;

       (c) the subject matter of a trade dispute or of conciliation
            proceedings or any method of redress whether or not under
            any written law; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         18

(d) any industrial matter within the meaning of the Industrial
     Relations Act 1960.

 (6) Where in respect of the employment of any person there has
been any contravention of subsection (1), that person is, by reason
only of such contravention, not to be deemed to be employed under an
illegal contract of employment.

Self-employed foreigners to apply for work passes

 10.—(1) A foreigner must not be a self‑employed foreigner unless
he or she has a valid work pass.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall —

       (a) be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or
            to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
            both; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, be punished with
            imprisonment for a term of not less than one month and not
            more than 2 years and also be liable to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) to avoid doubt, where a person has been convicted of an
            offence under subsection (2), and the person has on a
            previous occasion been convicted for contravening
            section 10(1) of the Employment of Foreign Workers
            Act (Cap. 91A, 1997 Revised Edition) in force
            immediately before 1 July 2007 or section 10(1) of this
            Act in force immediately before 9 November 2012, the
            firstmentioned conviction shall be considered a second or
            subsequent conviction under subsection (2); and

       (b) all convictions against the same person for the
            contravention of subsection (1) at one and the same trial
            shall be deemed to be one conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                      Employment of Foreign

19                    Manpower Act 1990                       2020 Ed.

Levy in respect of foreign employee or self-employed foreigner

 11.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, provide for the
imposition of a levy of such amount as may be specified in the order
on employers in respect of any foreign employee or class of foreign
employees, or on self-employed foreigners or any class thereof, who
have been issued with a work pass.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) The levy continues to be payable unless the work pass —

    (a) has expired;

    (b) has been suspended or revoked by the Controller; or

    (c) has been cancelled by the Controller on application by the
        employer.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (1) may provide for the
recovery of the levy in such manner and through such channels as
may be specified in the order.

 (4) Where the amount of the levy payable by any employer or
self‑employed foreigner in respect of any month is not paid within
such period as may be specified in the order, the employer or
self‑employed foreigner shall be liable to pay a penalty on the amount
for every day the amount remains unpaid starting from the first day of
the month following the month in respect of which the amount is
payable.

 (5) The penalty under subsection (4) must be an amount determined
in accordance with any rate or formula as the Minister may specify by
order in the Gazette, but the total penalty must not exceed 30% of the
amount of levy outstanding.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (6) The Controller may, in any case in which the Controller thinks
fit, waive, remit or refund in whole or in part —

    (a) any levy imposed under subsection (1); or

    (b) any penalty due under subsection (4).

                                                              [24/2012]

 (7) Any levy and penalty due from and payable by any employer or
self-employed foreigner is recoverable by the Controller, or any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         20

person duly authorised by the Controller to act on the Controller’s
behalf, as a debt due to the Government.

 (8) For the purposes of reimbursing any person authorised by the
Controller to act on the Controller’s behalf for the expenses incurred
by the person in the collection and recovery of the levy, the Minister
may authorise the person to be paid an amount as the Minister may
determine.

 (9) In any proceedings for the recovery of any levy and penalty due
thereon which any employer or self-employed foreigner is liable to
pay, a certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Controller
certifying the amount of the levy and penalty due thereon payable by
the employer or self-employed foreigner is prima facie evidence of
the facts stated in the certificate.

Extent of validity of work pass

 12.—(1) A work pass for a foreign employee is valid only in respect
of the employer and the foreign employee specified in the work pass,
and —

       (a) the trade, sector, occupation or type of employment —

               (i) that is specified in the work pass; or

              (ii) in any other case, that was submitted to the
                   Controller in, or in connection with, the application
                   for the work pass; and

       (b) any trade, sector, occupation or type of employment not
            specified in the work pass, for which the foreign employee
            has the Controller’s approval to engage in.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) A work pass for a self-employed foreigner is valid only in
respect of the self-employed foreigner specified in the work pass,
and —

       (a) the trade, sector, vocation, profession or activity —

               (i) that is specified in the work pass; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

21  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

    (ii) in any other case, that was submitted to the
         Controller in, or in connection with, the application
         for the work pass; and

       (b) any trade, sector, vocation, profession or activity not
            specified in the work pass, for which the self-employed
            foreigner has the Controller’s approval to engage in.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) A work pass is valid for the period specified in the work pass
unless it is earlier suspended or revoked by the Controller, or earlier
cancelled by the Controller on the application by the employer or
self‑employed foreigner, as the case may be.

Custody of work pass, etc.

 13.—(1) A work pass holder must not allow any other person to
have possession of his or her work pass.

 (2) If required by the Controller, a foreign employee must hand
over the work pass to his or her employer on the last day of his or her
employment with that employer.

 (3) An employer who is handed a work pass under subsection (2)
must return the work pass to the Controller within 7 days of the date
the employer receives the work pass.

 (4) Upon demand by an authorised officer or employment
inspector, a work pass holder must produce his or her work pass
for inspection.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Loss, etc., of work pass

 14.—(1) When a work pass has been lost, destroyed or defaced, the
foreign employee or the employer or the self‑employed foreigner (as
the case may be) must report to the Controller within 7 days of such
loss, destruction or defacement, and the Controller may issue a
duplicate work pass on payment of the prescribed fee.

 (2) Where the foreign employee or the employer or the
self‑employed foreigner recovers possession of the work pass after
reporting the loss of the work pass, the foreign employee or the
employer or the self‑employed foreigner, as the case may be —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         22

(a) may retain the work pass if no duplicate work pass has
     been issued by the Controller under subsection (1); or

(b) must immediately return the work pass so recovered to the
     Controller for revocation if a duplicate work pass has been
     issued by the Controller under subsection (1).

 (3) A person who finds or comes into possession of a work pass
other than his or her own must immediately deliver it to the
Controller.

Burden of proof, etc.

 15.—(1) For the purposes of section 7, and any proceedings in
respect of any prescribed infringement or any offence under this
Act —

       (a) a person who makes an application for a work pass is
            presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have knowledge
            of the information provided in the application; and

       (b) subject to subsection (2), the burden of proving the truth of
            the contents of an application for a work pass is on the
            person who makes the application.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Where any application for a work pass is made by more than one
person, then for the purposes specified in subsection (1), each
applicant bears the burden of proving the truth of the contents of the
application that relate to the applicant.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

                       PART 3
          ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

                                                                    [24/2012]

Powers of authorised officers and employment inspectors

 16.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, an authorised officer or
employment inspector has power to do all or any of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

23  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) to enter and inspect, at any reasonable time —

    (i) any premises when he or she has reasonable cause to
        believe that any foreign employee or self‑employed
        foreigner is employed or engaged in or
        accommodated at those premises; or

    (ii) where an application for a work pass has been made,
         the business premises of the employer who made the
         application;

    (b) to enter and search, by day or by night, any premises when
         he or she has reasonable cause to believe that evidence of a
         prescribed infringement or the commission of an offence
         under this Act (as the case may be) can be found in those
         premises;

    (c) to require any person who the authorised officer or
        employment inspector has reason to believe has any
        document, including documents of identity and travel
        documents, or information relevant to the carrying out of
        the provisions of this Act, to produce any such document or
        give such information;

    (d) to retain any document relevant to the carrying out of the
         provisions of this Act;

    (e) to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
        with the facts and circumstances relevant to the carrying
        out of the provisions of this Act, and to reduce into writing
        the answer given or statement made by that person who is
        bound to state truly the facts and circumstances with which
        the person is acquainted; and the statement made by that
        person must be read over to that person and must, after
        correction, be signed by that person;

    (f) to require by written order the attendance before him or her
        of any person who, from information given or otherwise,
        appears to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances
        relevant to the carrying out of the provisions of this Act,
        and that person must so attend as required and if that
        person fails to attend as so required, to report such failure

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         24

          to a Magistrate who may thereupon issue a warrant to
          secure the attendance of that person as required by the
          order;

(g) to take such photographs, or audio or video recording, as
     he or she thinks necessary of the premises and persons
     reasonably believed to be acquainted with the facts and
     circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the provisions
     of this Act;

(h) to require any person to produce any article which is
     relevant to any investigation into a prescribed infringement
     or an offence under this Act (as the case may be) and, if
     necessary, to take into custody any such article;

        (i) to require an employer to produce all or any of his or her
            employees for the purposes of any investigation into a
            prescribed infringement or an offence under this Act when
            required by the authorised officer or employment
            inspector, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) An authorised officer or employment inspector may require the
occupier of any premises, the occupier’s agents and any person found
in the premises, to provide such means required by the authorised
officer or employment inspector (as the case may be) as necessary for
any entry, inspection, search, examination or investigation, the taking
of photographs or audio or video recordings, the taking of articles into
custody or otherwise for the exercise of his or her powers under this
Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) An authorised officer or employment inspector may, after
concluding his or her inspection or investigation, hand over to an
immigration officer any travel document which he or she has taken
into custody or which has been produced to him or her.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) If entry to any premises cannot be obtained, an employment
inspector may, when he or she has reasonable cause to believe that
any foreign employee or self‑employed foreigner is employed or
engaged in or accommodated at those premises or that evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act can be found in those

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

25  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

premises, state his or her authority and purpose and demand entry to
those premises, and —

    (a) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
         the premises;

    (b) forcibly enter such premises and every part thereof; or

      (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entry or search.

                                                                                                         [24/2012]

(5) If any person —

    (a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
         authorised officer or employment inspector in the exercise
         of any power under this section;

    (b) fails to comply with the requisition of an authorised officer
         or employment inspector under this section;

    (c) fails to produce any document which the person is required
        by or under this section to produce;

    (d) wilfully withholds any information as to who is the
         occupier of the premises or who is the principal
         contractor or who is the person’s employer; or

    (e) conceals or prevents or attempts to conceal or prevent a
        person from appearing before or being examined by an
        authorised officer or employment inspector,

that person is deemed to obstruct an authorised officer or employment
inspector (as the case may be) in the execution of the employment
inspector’s duties under this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (6) Every employment inspector has authority to appear in court
and may, with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, conduct any
prosecution in respect of any offence under this Act.

                                                                                                [15/2010; 24/2012]

Change of address

 17.—(1) If required by the Controller, an employer must inform the
Controller of any change in the employer’s address within 14 days of
such change —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         26

(a) where the employer is an individual registered under the
     National Registration Act 1965 — by reporting the change
     of his or her place of residence under section 10 of that Act;

       (b) where the employer is a body corporate incorporated under
            the Companies Act 1967 or the Variable Capital
            Companies Act 2018, a sole proprietorship or a firm
            registered under the Business Names Registration
            Act 2014 or a limited liability partnership registered
            under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005 — by
            reporting the change of the address of the registered office
            or place of business under section 143 of the Companies
            Act 1967 (or that provision as applied by section 45 of the
            Variable Capital Companies Act 2018), section 20 of the
            Business Names Registration Act 2014 or section 32 of the
            Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005, as the case may
            be; or

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

       (c) where paragraphs (a) and (b) are not applicable — in
            writing.

                                                                                                           [29/2014]

 (2) The address as reported in subsection (1) is deemed to be the last
known address of the employer for the purposes of section 18.

 (3) If required by the Controller, any foreign employee or
self‑employed foreigner must inform the Controller in writing of
any change in his or her address within 14 days of such change.

 (4) The address as reported in subsection (3) is deemed to be the last
known address of the foreign employee or self‑employed foreigner
for the purposes of section 18.

Service of notices

 18.—(1) Every notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person may be served —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of the person’s family or the person’s household
            at the person’s last known place of residence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

27  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
         residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
         person; or

       (c) by sending it by ordinary or registered post addressed to
            the person at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Where any notice, order or document is served by ordinary or
registered post, it is deemed to have been duly served at the time it
would have been received in the ordinary course of post if the notice,
order or document is addressed —

    (a) in the case of a company incorporated in Singapore — to
         the registered office of the company;

    (b) in the case of a company incorporated outside
         Singapore — either to the individual authorised to accept
         service of process under the Companies Act 1967 at the
         address filed with the Registrar of Companies, or to the
         registered office of the company wherever it may be
         situated;

    (c) in the case of an individual, a partnership (including a
        limited liability partnership as defined in section 4(1) of the
        Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005) or a body of
        persons — to the last known business or private address of
        such individual, partnership or body of persons.

 (3) Where any notice, order or document is served by registered
post in accordance with subsection (2), in proving service of the
notice, order or document, it is sufficient to prove that the envelope
containing the same was properly addressed, stamped and posted by
registered post.

 (4) Every notice, order or document to be given by the Controller or
an employment inspector under this Act must be signed by the
Controller or employment inspector, or by some person or persons
from time to time authorised by the Controller or employment
inspector, as the case may be, in that behalf, and every such notice,
order or document is valid if the signature, or an official facsimile of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         28

the signature, of the Controller, employment inspector or such person
or persons is duly printed or written thereon.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) Any notice or order under this Act requiring the attendance of
any person or witness before the Controller or an employment
inspector must be signed by the Controller or the employment
inspector (as the case may be) or by a person duly authorised by the
Controller.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Protection from personal liability

 19. No liability shall be incurred by —

       (a) the Controller;

       (b) any authorised officer or employment inspector, or any
            person acting under the Controller’s direction; or

       (c) any member of the Appeal Board,

for anything which is done or intended to be done in good faith and
with reasonable care, in the exercise or purported exercise of any
power, or the performance or purported performance of any function
or duty, under this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

            PART 4
          OFFENCES

                                                                    [24/2012]

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 20.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

29  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) For the purposes of this section, where an offence under this Act
has been committed by a body corporate, an unincorporated
association (other than a partnership) or a partnership, it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the offence is
attributable to the neglect of an officer or a member of the body
corporate or unincorporated association or a partner of the
partnership (as the case may be) who —

    (a) is primarily responsible for the act or omission which
         constitutes the offence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
             Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.     Manpower Act 1990                                      30

      (b) has failed to exercise reasonable supervision or oversight
           as such officer, member or partner.

                                                                                                         [24/2012]

(6) In this section —

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (7) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Power to arrest without warrant

 21.—(1) Any police officer or employment inspector may arrest
without warrant any person whom he or she reasonably suspects —

       (a) is committing or has committed an offence under
            section 5(6), (7) or (8), 10(2), 22(1)(a), (c), (d), (e) or
            (f), (2), (3) or (4), 22A(2) or 22B(1); or

       (b) has abetted the commission of any offence mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

31  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, an officer or a member of a
body corporate or an unincorporated association or a partner of a
partnership who is liable for an offence mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) by virtue of section 20 shall be treated as having
committed that offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) An employment inspector making an arrest without warrant
must, without unnecessary delay and subject to subsection (4), bring
or send the person arrested before a Magistrate’s Court.

 (4) An employment inspector must not detain in custody a person
arrested without warrant for longer than is reasonable in the
circumstances, and such period must not exceed 48 hours
(excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place of
arrest to the Magistrate’s Court).

 (5) Any person who has been arrested by an employment inspector
may be released on bail, or on the person’s own bond, by an
employment inspector.

Arrest how made

 21A.—(1) In making an arrest, an employment inspector making
the arrest may touch or confine the body of the person to be arrested
unless the person submits to arrest by word or action.

 (2) If the person forcibly resists or tries to evade arrest, the
employment inspector may use all means necessary to effect the
arrest.

No unnecessary restraint
 21B.—(1) The person arrested must not be subject to more restraint

than is necessary to prevent his or her escape.
 (2) An employment inspector may use handcuffs or any similar

means of restraint on a person arrested to prevent the person from —
       (a) inflicting any bodily injury to the person or others;
       (b) damaging any property;
       (c) creating any disturbance; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         32

(d) escaping from custody.

 (3) The handcuffs or means of restraint must not be used for the
purpose of punishment.

Search of persons arrested

 21C.—(1) When a person is arrested, the employment inspector
making the arrest may search the person and take possession of all
articles (other than necessary wearing apparel) found upon the person
that the employment inspector has reason to believe were connected
with the offence for which the person was being arrested.

 (2) Whenever it is necessary to cause a person to be searched, the
search must be made by an employment inspector of the same sex as
the person, with strict regard to decency.

Employment inspector to be armed

 21D. Every employment inspector must be provided with such
batons and accoutrements as may be necessary for the effective
discharge of his or her duties.

Power to seize offensive weapons

 21E. An employment inspector making any arrest may take from
the person arrested any offensive weapons which the person has
about his or her person.

Power on escape to pursue and arrest

 21F. If a person in lawful custody escapes or is rescued, the
employment inspector from whose custody the person escaped or was
rescued may immediately pursue and arrest the person in any place
within Singapore and deal with that person as he or she might have
done on the original arrest.

Disposal of documents or articles

 21G.—(1) Any document or article produced, retained or
requisitioned under section 16(1)(c), (d) or (h) or 21E must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

33  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) where the document or article is produced in any criminal
         trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364(1) of the
         Criminal Procedure Code 2010; or

    (b) in any other case —

    (i) be returned to the owner; or

              (ii) if the owner is not known, be reported to a
                   Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (2) Where the report of any document or article produced, retained
or requisitioned under section 16(1)(c), (d) or (h) or 21E is made to a
Magistrate’s Court under subsection (1)(b)(ii), the Magistrate’s Court
may order the document or article —

    (a) to be forfeited; or

    (b) to be disposed of in any manner as the Magistrate’s Court
         thinks fit.

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be taken to prejudice any right to
retain or dispose of property which may exist in law apart from this
section.

General offences

 22.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) being an employer, a foreign employee or a self-employed
            foreigner to whom a work pass applies or had applied,
            contravenes any condition (other than a regulatory
            condition) of the work pass or in-principle approval of
            the application for the work pass;

       (b) contravenes section 13(4);

       (c) wilfully obstructs an authorised officer or employment
            inspector in the exercise of his or her powers under
            section 16, 21, 21A, 21B, 21C, 21E or 21F (as applicable);

       (d) in connection with any application for or to renew a work
            pass or for any other purpose under this Act, makes any
            statement or provides any information to the Controller or
            an authorised officer or employment inspector which the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         34

          person knows, or ought reasonably to know, is false in any
          material particular or is misleading by reason of the
          omission of any material particular;

          (e) sells, forges, unlawfully alters or, without lawful authority,
              transfers or allows another person to use any in-principle
              approval or work pass;

          (f) uses or, without lawful authority, has in the person’s
              possession any in-principle approval or work pass that is
              forged or unlawfully altered, or which is issued to another
              person; or

(g) contravenes section 13(1), (2) or (3), 14 or 17(1) or (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(h) in the case of an offence under paragraph (a), (b) or (c) —
     to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both;

          (i) in the case of an offence under paragraph (d), (e) or (f) — to
              a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
              not exceeding 2 years or to both; and

        (j) in the case of an offence under paragraph (g) — to a fine
            not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Any employer, foreign employee, self‑employed foreigner, or
any agent involved in the employment of the foreign employee or the
engagement of the self‑employed foreigner, who —

(a) knows, or has reason to believe, that an offence has been
     committed under subsection (1)(d); and

(b) intentionally omits to provide any information to the
     Controller in respect of that offence,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Any foreign employee or self-employed foreigner who makes
any statement or submits any document to the Controller under this

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

35  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

Act relating to his or her qualifications which he or she knows or
ought reasonably to know is false in any material particular, or is
misleading by reason of the omission of any material particular, shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) Any employer of a foreign employee or any agent involved in
the employment of the foreign employee, or any agent involved in the
engagement of a self-employed foreigner, who —

    (a) knows, or has reason to believe, that an offence has been
         committed by the foreign employee or self‑employed
         foreigner (as the case may be) under subsection (3); and

    (b) intentionally omits to provide any information to the
         Controller in respect of that offence,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Restrictions on receipt, etc., of moneys in connection with
employment of foreign employee

 22A.—(1) A person must not deduct from any salary payable to a
foreign employee, or demand or receive, directly or indirectly and
whether in Singapore or elsewhere, from a foreign employee any sum
or other benefit —

       (a) as consideration or as a condition for the employment of
            the foreign employee, whether by that person or any other
            person;

       (b) as consideration or as a condition for the continued
            employment of the foreign employee, whether by that
            person or any other person; or

       (c) as a financial guarantee related, in any way, to the
            employment of the foreign employee, whether by that
            person or any other person.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         36

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Any person who deducts from any salary payable to a foreign
employee, or demands or receives, directly or indirectly and whether
in Singapore or elsewhere, from a foreign employee any sum or other
benefit, not being —

(a) the whole or part of any fee, cost, levy, penalty, charge or
     amount that the employer of the foreign employee must
     bear and is liable to pay under section 25(6);

(b) the whole or part of any fee or deduction prescribed as
     recoverable from the foreign employee under
     section 25(6)(a);

          (c) where sections 26 to 32 of the Employment Act 1968 apply
              to the foreign employee, the whole or part of any deduction
              from the salary of the foreign employee authorised to be
              made under those sections;

(d) where sections 26 to 32 of the Employment Act 1968 do
     not apply to the foreign employee, the whole or part of any
     deduction from the salary of the foreign employee made in
     accordance with the terms of the employment of the
     foreign employee; or

          (e) the whole or part of any fee, remuneration, profit or
              compensation that a licensee under the Employment
              Agencies Act 1958 may lawfully charge the foreign
              employee and receive under that Act,

is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have done so as
consideration for the employment of the foreign employee.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

37  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

Proscribed manpower-related practices

22B.—(1) Any person who —

    (a) obtains a work pass for a foreign employee for a trade or
         business that does not exist, that is not in operation or that
         does not require the employment of such a foreign
         employee; and

    (b) fails to employ the foreign employee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be punished with
imprisonment for a presumptive minimum term of not less than
6 months and not more than 2 years and shall also be liable to a fine
not exceeding $6,000.

                                                                                                [24/2012; 15/2019]

 (2) Where any person is —

    (a) charged with more than 5 offences under subsection (1);
         and

    (b) convicted of at least 6 of those offences at the same trial,

the person shall be punished, subject to sections 325(1) and 330(1) of
the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, with caning in addition to the
punishment prescribed for those offences.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Where, by virtue of sections 325(1) and 330(1) of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, the person mentioned in subsection (2) is not
punishable with caning, he or she shall, in lieu of caning, be punished
with a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Abetment of offences

 23.—(1) Any person who abets the commission of an offence under
this Act shall be guilty of the offence and shall be liable on conviction
to be punished with the punishment provided for that offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Where an occupier is charged for abetting another person who
has employed a foreign employee in contravention of section 5(1), it
shall not be sufficient for the occupier to prove in the occupier’s
defence that the occupier had instructed the other person not to, or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         38

obtained from the other person an undertaking that the other person
would not, so employ a foreign employee.

Orders for payment of proceeds of crime

 23A.—(1) When any person is convicted of an offence under
section 22A(2) or 22B(1), the court shall, in addition to imposing on
that person any other punishment, order the person to pay, within such
time as may be specified in the order —

       (a) in the case of an offence under section 22A(2) — a sum
            which is equal to the amount of the sum or other benefit
            (where such benefit is a sum of money, or the value of such
            benefit can be assessed) the person deducted or received in
            contravention of that section; or

       (b) in the case of an offence under section 22B(1) — a sum
            which is equal to the amount of the sum or other benefit
            (where such benefit is a sum of money, or the value of such
            benefit can be assessed) the person obtained or received for
            obtaining the work pass mentioned in that section.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) In determining the sum of money to be recovered under
subsection (1), the court shall, if it thinks fit, take into account —

       (a) any relevant evidence admitted in the proceedings against
            the defendant for the offence concerned; and

       (b) any order for the payment of compensation by the
            defendant in respect of any injury arising from the
            offence concerned to the person injured, or his or her
            representative, under section 359 of the Criminal
            Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Where a court orders the defendant to pay any sum of money
under subsection (1), section 319 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 shall have effect as if that sum were a fine imposed on
the defendant by the court.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
             Employment of Foreign

39           Manpower Act 1990                                2020 Ed.

(4) Where —

    (a) a warrant to commit the defendant to prison is issued for a
         default in payment of a sum of money ordered to be paid
         under subsection (1) in respect of an offence or offences;
         and

    (b) at the time the warrant is issued, the defendant is liable to
         serve any term of imprisonment in respect of the offence or
         offences,

the term of imprisonment to be served in default of payment of that
sum shall not begin to run until after the term mentioned in
paragraph (b).

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) A Magistrate’s Court or a District Court may, despite the
provisions of any other written law, impose the maximum term of
imprisonment on the defendant in default of the payment of any sum
of money ordered to be paid under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Complaint by employment inspector

 24. For the purpose of section 151 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, on receiving the complaint in writing and signed by any
employment inspector, the Magistrate must proceed to issue a
summons or warrant in accordance with section 153 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

                             PART 5
             PRESCRIBED INFRINGEMENTS

                                                              [24/2012]

General prescribed infringements

 25.—(1) Where any employer —

       (a) makes, or causes to be made to the Controller, an
            application for a work pass on the basis of the
            employer’s foreign employee entitlement; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         40

(b) commits, or causes or permits to be committed, any act or
     omission which facilitates, or which results in, the inflation
     of the employer’s foreign employee entitlement,

the Controller may impose on the employer a financial penalty of an
amount, not exceeding $20,000, as the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Where any person fails to comply with —

(a) any regulatory condition subject to which an in‑principle
     approval is or had been issued to the person by the
     Controller; or

(b) being an employer, a foreign employee or a self‑employed
     foreigner to whom a work pass applies or had applied, any
     regulatory condition of the work pass,

the Controller may impose on the person a financial penalty of an
amount, not exceeding $10,000, as the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Where any employer inadvertently, or without intent to mislead
or defraud, makes any statement or provides any information to the
Controller which is inaccurate or erroneous, the Controller may
impose on the employer a financial penalty of an amount, not
exceeding $20,000, as the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) Where any employer —

(a) deducts from any salary payable to a foreign employee, or
     demands or receives, directly or indirectly and whether in
     Singapore or elsewhere, from the foreign employee any
     fee, cost, levy, penalty, charge or amount that the employer
     shall bear and be liable for under subsection (6), or any part
     thereof; or

(b) causes any foreign employee to bear any fee, cost, levy,
     penalty, charge or amount that the employer shall bear and
     be liable for under subsection (6), or any part thereof,

the Controller may impose on the employer a financial penalty of an
amount, not exceeding $20,000, as the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

41  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

(5) In subsection (1), unless the context otherwise requires —

    “act or omission”, in relation to a person who is an employer,
       includes but is not limited to the employer failing to ensure
       that the employer’s Central Provident Fund contribution
       record of payments as employer required under the Central
       Provident Fund Act 1953 only reflects every citizen of
       Singapore or permanent resident of Singapore who is
       employed by the employer and at the appropriate
       contribution rate prescribed by law;

                                                                           [Act 31 of 2023 wef 31/12/2024]

    “foreign employee entitlement” means the number of foreign
       employees which a person may employ, according to such
       criteria and conditions as the Minister or the Controller may
       determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (4), the employer of a foreign
employee shall, except where the Controller permits otherwise, bear
and be liable to pay the following:

    (a) fees associated with the application, issuance, renewal or
         reinstatement of a work pass, other than the fees or
         deductions prescribed as recoverable from the foreign
         employee;

    (b) costs associated with furnishing security as required by the
         Controller;

    (c) costs associated with purchasing and maintaining medical
        insurance coverage for the foreign employee, as required
        by the Controller;

    (d) costs associated with medical examinations for the foreign
         employee, as required by the Controller;

    (e) the levy imposed under section 11(1) in respect of the
        foreign employee and any penalty due thereon;

    (f) costs associated with training the foreign employee, where
        the training is required by the employer or the Controller;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         42

(g) costs associated with repatriating the foreign employee at
     any time;

(h) any fee, charge or amount as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                 [24/2012]

Compliance with prescribed duties

 25A.—(1) Where an in-principle approval of an application for a
work pass has been issued by the Controller, the employer, foreign
employee or self-employed foreigner concerned must comply with
such duties for or in relation to the employment of such foreign
employee or the engagement of such self-employed foreigner as may
be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Where any employer, foreign employee or self‑employed
foreigner fails to comply with any duty prescribed under
subsection (1) that the employer, foreign employee or
self‑employed person is required to comply with, the Controller
may impose on the employer, foreign employee or self‑employed
person a financial penalty of an amount, not exceeding $10,000, as
the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) duties may be prescribed for or in relation to any foreign
            employee or self‑employed foreigner, or any class thereof,
            to be complied with following the cancellation, revocation
            or expiry of the work pass of the foreign employee or
            self‑employed foreigner, as the case may be; and

       (b) different duties may be prescribed in relation to different
            classes of employers, foreign employees or self‑employed
            foreigners, or different categories of work passes.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Directions

 25B.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, where the Controller is
satisfied that any person is committing or has committed a prescribed
infringement, the Controller may, in addition to or in lieu of the
imposition of a financial penalty, give such directions to the person as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

43  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

the Controller thinks appropriate to bring the prescribed infringement
to an end and, where necessary, require that person to take such action
as is specified in the direction to remedy, mitigate or eliminate any
effects of such prescribed infringement and to prevent the recurrence
of such prescribed infringement.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any direction given under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Proceedings for prescribed infringements

 25C.—(1) The Controller may inquire into and determine whether
any person has committed a prescribed infringement in accordance
with this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Controller has the
following powers:

       (a) to summon and examine witnesses;

       (b) to administer oaths or affirmations;

       (c) to compel the production of documents and articles.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) All proceedings before the Controller under this section must be
held in private.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) In any proceedings before the Controller under this section —

       (a) the Controller is not bound to act in a formal manner or in
            accordance with the Evidence Act 1893 but may inform
            himself or herself on any matter in such manner as he or
            she thinks just;

       (b) any question of fact to be decided by the Controller must be
            decided on the balance of probabilities; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         44

       (c) no party may be represented by an advocate or solicitor or a
            paid agent.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) If any person who has been duly summoned by the Controller to
attend at any proceedings under this section makes default in so
doing, the Controller may make the Controller’s determination in the
absence of that person even though the interest of that person may be
prejudicially affected by the Controller’s determination.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (6) Where the Controller has made a determination that any person
has committed a prescribed infringement, the Controller may in the
Controller’s determination —

(a) state (if any) the amount of financial penalty, not exceeding
     the maximum financial penalty prescribed for the
     prescribed infringement, that is payable by the person
     and the date by which the financial penalty must be paid;
     and

       (b) include such directions to the person under section 25B as
            the Controller thinks appropriate.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (7) The Controller may, on the application of any person mentioned
in subsection (6) who is aggrieved by a determination or direction of
the Controller, vary or set aside the determination or direction or
make any other determination or direction as the Controller thinks
just.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (8) Any person mentioned in subsection (6) who is aggrieved by a
determination or direction of the Controller, or any variation thereof,
may appeal to the Appeal Board, whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Recovery of financial penalties

 25D.—(1) Any person who has been determined to have committed
a prescribed infringement and fails to pay the financial penalty
imposed by the Controller by the date specified under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

45  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

section 25C(6)(a) is liable to pay to the Controller interest on the
amount unpaid at the same rate as for a judgment debt.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Any financial penalty payable in respect of a prescribed
infringement and any interest thereon is recoverable by the
Controller, or any person duly authorised by the Controller to act
on the Controller’s behalf, as a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) The Controller may, in any case in which the Controller thinks
fit, waive, remit or refund in whole or in part any financial penalty
imposed or any interest due thereon.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) In any proceedings for the recovery of any financial penalty or
interest due thereon which any person is liable to pay, a certificate
purporting to be under the hand of the Controller certifying the
amount of the financial penalty or interest due thereon that is payable
by the person is prima facie evidence of the facts stated in the
certificate.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Prescribed infringements by bodies corporate, etc.

 25E.—(1) Where a prescribed infringement committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be treated as having
committed the prescribed infringement and dealt with accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) Where a prescribed infringement committed by a partnership is
proved —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
             Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.     Manpower Act 1990                                      46

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be treated as having
committed the prescribed infringement and dealt with accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) Where a prescribed infringement committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such officer
     or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be treated as having committed the prescribed infringement and dealt
with accordingly.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) For the purposes of this section, where a prescribed
infringement has been committed by a body corporate, an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) or a
partnership, it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the
prescribed infringement is attributable to the neglect of an officer or a
member of the body corporate or unincorporated association or a
partner of the partnership (as the case may be) who —

(a) is primarily responsible for the act or omission which
     constitutes the prescribed infringement; and

      (b) has failed to exercise reasonable supervision or oversight
           as such officer, member or partner.

                                                                                                         [24/2012]

(6) In this section —

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

47  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

    officer of the body corporate and includes any person
    purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (7) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Abetment of prescribed infringements

 25F.—(1) Where any person abets a prescribed infringement, the
Controller may impose on the person a financial penalty of an
amount, not exceeding the maximum financial penalty prescribed for
the prescribed infringement, as the Controller may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) a person abets a prescribed infringement if the person abets
            either the commission of the prescribed infringement, or
            the commission of an act which would be a prescribed
            infringement, if committed by a person capable by law of
            committing a prescribed infringement with the same
            intention or knowledge as that of the abettor; and

       (b) a person abets the doing of a thing if the person —

               (i) instigates any person to do that thing;

              (ii) engages with one or more other persons in any
                   conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         48

          omission takes place pursuant to that conspiracy, and
          in order for the doing of that thing; or

          (iii) intentionally aids, by any act or omission, the doing
                of that thing.

                                                                                                  [24/2012]

Appeals to Appeal Board

 25G.—(1) An appeal to the Appeal Board under section 25C(8)
must be lodged within 14 days after the receipt of the determination
or direction of the Controller by the person aggrieved by the
determination or direction, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Any person who has lodged an appeal to the Appeal Board
under section 25C(8) must provide any information as may be
required by the Appeal Board, in the manner and within the period as
the Appeal Board may specify.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) An appeal under section 25C(8) does not suspend the effect of
the determination or direction to which the appeal relates unless the
appeal is against the imposition, or the amount, of a financial penalty.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) The Appeal Board must determine an appeal under
section 25C(8) as soon as reasonably practicable, having regard to
the nature and complexity of the appeal.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) The Appeal Board must notify the person making an appeal
under section 25C(8) of its decision in respect of the person’s appeal
and the reasons for its decision.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (6) Without limiting subsection (5), the Appeal Board may —

       (a) confirm, vary or reverse the determination or direction of
            the Controller appealed against; or

       (b) direct the Controller to reconsider the determination or
            direction appealed against.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
    Employment of Foreign

49  Manpower Act 1990                                         2020 Ed.

Composition and procedure of Appeal Board

 25H.—(1) For the purposes of section 25G, the Minister may
establish an Appeal Board which must consist of at least 3 persons,
one of whom must be appointed by the Minister to be the chairperson
of the Appeal Board.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) The chairperson of the Appeal Board must be a person qualified
to be a Supreme Court Judge.

                                                                                                [24/2012; 40/2019]

 (3) The Minister may, in establishing the Appeal Board,
determine —

    (a) the terms and conditions of the appointment of the
         members of the Appeal Board; and

       (b) such matters as the Minister considers incidental or
            expedient for the proper and efficient conduct of any
            appeal by the Appeal Board.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (4) The remuneration and allowances (if any) of a member of the
Appeal Board are to be determined by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (5) The Appeal Board may determine the procedure to be adopted
by it in considering an appeal under section 25C(8), and must be
independent in the performance of its functions.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

           PART 6
    MISCELLANEOUS

                                                              [24/2012]

Jurisdiction of Courts

 26. Despite the provisions of any written law to the contrary, a
Magistrate’s Court or a District Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and has power to impose the full punishment
for any such offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         50

Composition of offences

 27.—(1) The Controller may compound any offence under this Act
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence, or having abetted the commission of the
offence, a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) a sum of $5,000.

                                                                    [24/2012]

 (2) For the purposes of this section, an officer or a member of a
body corporate or an unincorporated association or a partner of a
partnership who is liable for an offence that is compoundable under
this section by virtue of section 20 shall be treated as having
committed that offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

Forms

 28. For the purposes of this Act, the Controller may devise and use
such forms as he or she considers necessary.

Regulations

 29.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for any purpose for
which regulations may be made under this Act, for prescribing
anything which may be prescribed and generally for carrying out the
provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (2) Regulations made under subsection (1) may —

       (a) prescribe the penalties for any contravention of any
            provision of any regulation, except that —

               (i) in the case of an offence, any such penalty must not
                   exceed a fine of $15,000 or imprisonment for a term
                   of 12 months or both; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                     Employment of Foreign

51                   Manpower Act 1990                        2020 Ed.

    (ii) in the case of a prescribed infringement, any such
         penalty must not exceed a financial penalty of
         $15,000;

    (b) prescribe fees or charges as may be necessary for the
         purposes of this Act, including the fees to be paid in respect
         of any appeal lodged under this Act;

    (c) prescribe —

    (i) the categories of work passes;

    (ii) the period for which any work pass may be issued,
         renewed or reinstated;

    (iii) the criteria for the issuance, renewal or reinstatement
          of any work pass; and

    (iv) any condition (including any regulatory condition)
         subject to which an in-principle approval may be
         issued, or a work pass may be issued, renewed or
         reinstated;

    (d) provide for the taking and recording of any personal
         identifier of any person —

    (i) who applies for or has been issued with a work pass;
        or

    (ii) who is suspected of committing an offence under this
         Act;

    (e) provide for the use of any mechanical, electrical or other
        form of device or system for the taking or recording of all
        or any of the personal identifiers;

    (f) provide for the collation of any personal identifier taken or
        recorded pursuant to regulations made under paragraph (d)
        and the dissemination thereof to the police and to any other
        law enforcement agency authorised by the Controller to
        receive it;

    (g) provide for any matter relating to the release of any
         arrested person on any bail or bond under section 21(5);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
          Employment of Foreign

2020 Ed.  Manpower Act 1990                                         52

(h) provide for any matter relating to the security to be
     provided by or in respect of any foreigner issued with a
     work pass or any group or class of such foreigners,
     including the circumstances and the conditions under
     which the amount of the security may be varied or the
     security may be forfeited; and

        (i) prescribe the procedure in respect of any proceedings or
            any matter or thing to be done under this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2012]

 (3) All regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

Transitional provisions

 30.—(1) Any permit, appointment, application, appeal, decision,
ruling, order, direction or notice issued, made or given under the
repealed Regulation of Employment Act (Cap. 272, 1985 Revised
Edition) shall be treated as a permit, appointment, application,
appeal, decision, ruling, order, direction or notice issued, made or
given under this Act and has the same force and effect as a permit,
appointment, application, appeal, decision, ruling, order, direction or
notice issued, made or given under this Act.

 (2) Any form used for the purposes of the repealed Regulation of
Employment Act (Cap. 272, 1985 Revised Edition) which was in
force or had effect immediately before 1 January 1991 continues in
force and has effect as though prescribed under this Act until new
forms are prescribed.

                           THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 2A

                            PERSONAL IDENTIFIERS
1. Fingerprints or handprints of a person (including those taken using paper and

   ink or digital livescanning technologies).
2. A photograph or other image of a person’s face and shoulders.
3. A person’s signature.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
     EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN MANPOWER ACT 1990

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
            REGULATION OF EMPLOYMENT ACT
           (CHAPTER 272, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 12 of 1965 — Regulation of Employment Act, 1965

Bill           : 67/1965

First Reading  : 17 December 1965

Second and Third Readings : 22 December 1965

Commencement   : 1 February 1966

2. 1970 Revised Edition — Regulation of Employment Act (Chapter 127)

Operation      : 30 April 1971

3. Act 45 of 1975 — Regulation of Employment (Amendment) Act, 1975

Bill           : 43/1975

First Reading  : 19 August 1975

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 1975

Commencement   : 1 January 1976

4. Act 25 of 1982 — Regulation of Employment (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill           : 16/1982

First Reading  : 27 July 1982

Second and Third Readings : 31 August 1982

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
               ii

Commencement   : 1 April 1982 (except section 3)
                     15 October 1982 (section 3)

5. 1985 Revised Edition — Regulation of Employment Act (Chapter 272)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                     PART 2
      EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN MANPOWER ACT 1990

                        (2020 REVISED EDITION)

6. Act 21 of 1990 — Employment of Foreign Workers Act 1990

Bill           : 22/1990

First Reading  : 30 August 1990

Second and Third Readings : 4 October 1990

Commencement   : 1 January 1991

7. 1991 Revised Edition — Employment of Foreign Workers Act
                                    (Chapter 91A)

Operation      : 1 March 1991

8. Act 37 of 1995 — Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment) Act
                           1995

Bill           : 34/1995

First Reading  : 27 September 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 November 1995

Commencement   : 1 March 1996

9. 1997 Revised Edition — Employment of Foreign Workers Act
                                    (Chapter 91A)

Operation      : 20 December 1997

10. Act 39 of 1998 — Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment) Act
                             1998

Bill           : 38/1998

First Reading  : 4 September 1998

Second and Third Readings : 12 October 1998

Commencement   : 15 February 1999

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                iii

11. Act 26 of 2001 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                            2001

     (Amendments made by section 7 of the above Act)

Bill            : 24/2001

First Reading   : 11 July 2001

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 2001

Commencement    : 1 September 2001 (section 7)

12. Act 30 of 2007 — Employment of Foreign Workers (Amendment) Act
                             2007

Bill            : 17/2007

First Reading   : 9 April 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 May 2007

Commencement    : 1 July 2007

Note: The Employment of Foreign Workers Act was renamed as the
        Employment of Foreign Manpower Act by this Act.

13. 2009 Revised Edition — Employment of Foreign Manpower Act
                                     (Chapter 91A)

Operation       : 31 July 2009

14. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 34 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 34 of the Sixth Schedule)

15. Act 24 of 2012 — Employment of Foreign Manpower (Amendment) Act
                            2012

Bill            : 22/2012

First Reading   : 13 August 2012

Second and Third Readings : 11 September 2012

Commencement    : 9 November 2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                      iv

16. Act 29 of 2014 — Business Names Registration Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 47 read with item 5 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 26/2014

First Reading         : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 2014

Commencement          : 3 January 2016 (section 47 read with
                            item 5 of the Schedule)

17. Act 27 of 2015 — Employment (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 17 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 23/2015

First Reading         : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 17 August 2015

Commencement          : 1 April 2016 (section 17)

18. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 173 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 173)

19. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 48 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 48 of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
               v

20. 2020 Revised Edition — Employment of Foreign Manpower Act 1990

Operation      : 31 December 2021

21. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement   : 13 January 2022

22. Act 26 of 2022 — Registration of Criminals (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 19/2022

First Reading  : 1 August 2022

Second and Third Readings : 12 September 2022

Commencement   : 12 June 2023

23. Act 31 of 2023 — Immigration (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2023

First Reading  : 2 August 2023

Second and Third Readings : 18 September 2023

Commencement   : 31 December 2024
                     1 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
.                                 vi
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                    COMPARATIVE TABLE
EMPLOYMENT OF FOREIGN MANPOWER ACT 1990

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2009 Ed.
                   3—(1A)
3—(2)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
                   5—(6A)[Deleted by Act 24 of 2012]
—                     (7A)
5—(8)                 (8)
                   6A—(7A)
   (9)                (7B)
6A—(8)                (8)
                   7—(2A)
   (9)                (3)
   (10)               (4)
7—(3)                 (4A)
   (4)                (4B)
   (5)                (4C)
   (6)                (4D)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)                (6)
   (9)                (7)
   (10)            9—(3A)
   (11)               (4)
   (12)               (5)
9—(4)              10—(3)[Deleted by Act 24 of 2012]
   (5)
   (6)
—

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
                  ii

        2020 Ed.           2009 Ed.

10—(3)               (4)
16—(4)            16—(3A)

   (5)               (4)
   (6)               (5)
21—(2)            21—(1A)
   (3)               (2)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (4)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2025
