THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              CONTROL OF PLANTS ACT 1993

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Control of Plants Act 1993

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
     1.  Interpretation
     2.  Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officer,
     3.  etc.
         Officers deemed to be public servants
     4.  Officer to produce identification on request
     5.  Director-General may authorise public officer, etc., to exercise
     6.  powers and perform duties

                                           PART 2

IMPORT AND TRANSHIPMENT OF FRESH FRUITS AND VEGETABLES

    7. Prohibition of import or transhipment of fresh fruits or
            vegetables without licence

    8. Prohibition of import or transhipment of fresh fruits or
            vegetables without permit

                                        PART 3

                 CONTROL OF CULTIVATION OF PLANTS

 9. Application of this Part
10. No cultivation of plants without licence
11. Use of pesticide
12. Certified pesticide operator
13. Suspension or cancellation of certification of pesticide operator
14. Application for registration of pesticide
15. Protection of confidential supporting information about

         innovative pesticides
16. Circumstances where protection under section 15 does not apply

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                                 2

          PART 4

          PROHIBITED PLANTS

Section   Minister may prohibit cultivation of plants
   17.    Presumption that owner and occupier permitted growing of
   18.    prohibited plants
          Certificate of Director-General to be conclusive evidence
   19.    Eradication and destruction of prohibited plants
   20.

                                        PART 5

                               CONTROL OF PESTS

21. Power to direct destruction or treatment of plants, etc.
22. Placing land under quarantine
23. Application for examination of quarantined area
24. Power to order immediate destruction of plants
25. Clearing diseased land
26. Compensation
27. Accredited pest control agency

                                        PART 6

                               EXPORT OF PLANTS

28. Minister may prohibit export of plants
29. Advisory committee
30. Phytosanitary certificate

                                        PART 7

                             LICENCE AND PERMIT

31. Application for licence or permit
32. Revocation or suspension of licence or permit
33. Appeal

                                        PART 8

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

34. Penalty
35. Offences committed by body corporate
36. Offences committed by agent or employee
37. General powers of authorised officers

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
3        Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

Section  Power to label for identification
         Power to take samples for analysis
   38.   Power to dispose of, etc., fresh fruits and vegetables
   39.   Access to documents, books and records
   40.   Forfeiture
   41.   Presumption of ownership
   42.   Service of notices
   43.   Protection from liability
   44.   Fees, etc., payable to Board
   45.   Composition of offences
   46.   Exemption
   47.   Rules
   48.
   49.

An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the cultivation,
  import, transhipment and export of plants and plant products, the
  protection of plants and plant products against pests and diseases,
  the control of the introduction of pests into Singapore, the use of
  pesticides, the measures pertaining to the development and
  improvement of the plant industry in Singapore and for purposes
  connected therewith.

                                                           [18 February 1994]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Control of Plants Act 1993.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “authorised analyst” means any person appointed by the
         Director‑General as an authorised analyst under section 3(3);
      “authorised officer” means any person appointed by the
         Director‑General as an authorised officer under section 3(2);

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               4

“Board” means the National Parks Board established by the
   repealed National Parks Act (Cap. 198A, 1991 Revised
   Edition) as in force before 1 July 1996 and continued by
   section 3 of the National Parks Board Act 1996;

“certified pesticide operator” means a person who is certified as
   a pesticide operator under section 12;

“conveyance” includes any aircraft, vessel, train, vehicle or any
   other artificial contrivance, whether mechanically propelled
   or otherwise used or capable of being used as a means of
   transport on land, water or air;

“Director-General” means the Director‑General, Plant Health
   appointed under section 3(1);

“diseased” means attacked by or infected with any pest;

“fresh fruits and vegetables” means unprocessed and raw fruits
   and vegetables which are intended for human consumption;

“import”, with its grammatical variations and cognate
   expressions, means to bring or cause to be brought into
   Singapore by land, sea or air from any place which is outside
   Singapore but does not include the bringing into Singapore
   by land, sea or air (whether landed or transhipped in
   Singapore) for the sole purpose of being carried to any
   other country either by the same or another conveyance;

“label” includes any written, printed, pictorial or other
   descriptive matter;

“land” includes —

          (a) the surface of the earth and all substances forming the
               surface;

          (b) the earth below the surface and all substances in the
               earth;

          (c) all vegetation and other natural products whether or
              not requiring the periodical application of labour for
              their production and whether on or below the surface;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
5  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

   (d) all things attached to the earth, or permanently
        fastened to any thing attached to the earth, whether
        on or below the surface; and

   (e) land covered by water;

   “licensed grower” means a person who is issued with a licence
      under section 10;

   “occupier”, in relation to any land, includes every person in
      actual possession, management or control of the land;

   “owner”, in relation to any land, includes every lessee or tenant
      of the land;

   “package” includes every means by which plants, plant products
      and pests are encased, covered, enclosed, contained or
      packed for conveyance from one place to another;

   “pest” means any species, strain or biotype of plant, animal or
      pathogenic agent which is or is capable of being injurious to
      plants or plant products;

   “pesticide” means any substance or mixture of substances
      prepared or used for preventing, destroying, repelling or
      mitigating any pest and any substance or mixture of
      substances prepared or used as a plant regulator, defoliant
      or desiccant;

   “pesticide residue” means the remains of any substance resulting
      from the use of any pesticide, the level of which is prescribed
      by rules made under this Act;

   “phytosanitary certificate” means a phytosanitary certificate
      mentioned in section 30(1);

   “plant” means any species of plant or any part of a plant whether
      living or dead and includes any vegetable, fruit, flower, leaf,
      stem, branch, spore, seed, root, cutting, graft, scion and any
      other part, whether severed or attached, intended for
      propagation or from which further plants may be propagated;

   “plant product” means any product derived from plants, either in
      their natural, manufactured or processed form;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               6

“premises” includes land;

“prohibited pesticide” means a pesticide not specified in the
   Ninth Schedule to the Food Regulations;

“prohibited pesticide residue” means the remains of any
   substance resulting from the use of any prohibited pesticide;

“prohibited plant” means any plant prohibited under section 17;

“sell” includes offering or attempting to sell, or receiving for
   sale, or having in possession for sale, or exposing for sale, or
   sending or delivering for sale, or causing or allowing to be
   sold, offered or exposed for sale, and “sale” has a
   corresponding meaning;

“soil” includes earth, water, peat, manure, compost, sand, clay
   and any other substance capable of supporting plant life, or
   transmitting any pest, whether or not used or intended to be
   used as a growing medium, or in any process of manufacture,
   or as ballast or for any other purpose;

“supply” includes offering or attempting to supply or having in
   possession for supply or causing or allowing to be supplied;

“toxic chemical residue” means the remains of any chemical
   substance, other than pesticides, the level of which is
   prescribed by rules made under this Act;

“tranship”, with its grammatical variations and cognate
   expressions, means to bring or cause to be brought into
   Singapore by land, sea or air from any place which is outside
   Singapore any plant and then to —

          (a) remove or cause to be removed that plant from the
               conveyance in which it was brought into Singapore;
               and

          (b) return or cause to be returned that plant to the same
               conveyance or transfer it or cause it to be transferred
               to another conveyance, for the purpose of export,

          whether such plant is to be transferred directly between
          conveyances or whether it is to be landed in Singapore after it
          was brought into Singapore and stored, pending export;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
7  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

   “treatment” means disinfection and disinfestation to ensure the
      removal, sterilisation or killing of any pest by appropriate
      means.

                               [8/2002; 10/2019; 2/2020]

Administration of Act and appointment of authorised officer,
etc.

 3.—(1) The Board is responsible for the administration of this Act
and any rules made under this Act, and to that end, the Board must
appoint an officer of the Board to be the Director‑General, Plant
Health.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) The Director-General may, subject to the directions of the
Board, appoint any of the following persons to be an authorised
officer for the purpose of assisting the Director‑General in
administering and carrying out the provisions of this Act or any
rules made under this Act:

       (a) an employee of the Board;

       (b) an employee of another statutory authority;

       (c) a public officer;

       (d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) The Director-General may appoint one or more persons with the
prescribed qualifications and practical experience to be authorised
analysts for the purposes of this Act and any rules made under this
Act.

 (4) The Director-General may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Director‑General by
any provision of this Act or any rules made under this Act (except the
power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to an authorised
officer; and any reference in the provision of this Act or any rules
made under this Act to the Director‑General includes a reference to
such an authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               8

 (5) Any delegation under subsection (4) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Board may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) The Director-General may, for any reason that appears to him or
her to be sufficient, at any time revoke a person’s appointment as an
authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (7) A person mentioned in subsection (2)(d) who is appointed as an
authorised officer does not, by virtue only of the appointment,
become an employee or agent of the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Officers deemed to be public servants

 4. Every authorised officer is deemed to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Officer to produce identification on request

 5. Every authorised officer, when exercising any power under this
Act, must declare his or her office and must, if requested by any
person in relation to whom the power is sought to be exercised,
produce such identification card as the Director-General may
provide.

Director-General may authorise public officer, etc., to exercise
powers and perform duties

 6. A power conferred and duty imposed on the Director‑General
under this Act or any rules made under this Act may be exercised and
carried out by any public officer or officer of the Board or of any other
statutory authority generally or specially authorised by name or office
by the Director‑General and subject to his or her directions.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
9  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

   PART 2

   IMPORT AND TRANSHIPMENT OF FRESH FRUITS AND
                               VEGETABLES

Prohibition of import or transhipment of fresh fruits or
vegetables without licence

 7.—(1) A person must not import for sale, supply or distribution or
tranship any fresh fruit or vegetable except under and in accordance
with the conditions of a licence issued by the Director-General.

 (2) In deciding whether to grant a licence for the import of any fresh
fruit or vegetable, the Director‑General may make inquiries and
investigations that are reasonable and appropriate in the
circumstances so as to be satisfied as to the experience and
resources of the applicant in providing a secure and reliable supply
in Singapore of the fresh fruit or vegetable, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), those inquiries and
investigations may include whether the applicant for a licence to
import any fresh fruit or vegetable has a procurement plan stating —

   (a) the risks (including assessments of such risks) of any
        disruption occurring to the import of the fresh fruit or
        vegetable from the markets from which the fresh fruit or
        vegetable is to be procured; and

   (b) any plan of action (including preventive strategies) for the
        purpose of —

   (i) ensuring, so far as is reasonably practicable, that the
       applicant can still provide a secure and reliable
       supply in Singapore of the fresh fruit or vegetable of
       acceptable quality; or

              (ii) otherwise reducing or mitigating the effect of any
                   disruption to the supply of the fresh fruit or vegetable
                   from any such market from which the fresh fruit or
                   vegetable is to be procured.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               10

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Prohibition of import or transhipment of fresh fruits or
vegetables without permit

 8.—(1) A licensee must not import any fresh fruit or vegetable for
sale, supply or distribution unless —

       (a) the licensee has obtained a permit from the
            Director‑General in respect of each consignment of fresh
            fruits or vegetables to be imported by the licensee and the
            import of such consignment is carried out in accordance
            with the conditions of the permit;

       (b) the whole consignment conforms to the description
            contained in the permit;

       (c) the whole consignment does not contain any prohibited
            pesticide residue, or levels of pesticide residue or toxic
            chemical residue exceeding the prescribed levels;

       (d) the whole consignment complies with any sanitary
            standards that the Minister may prescribe;

       (e) the licensee provides the Director-General with
            satisfactory evidence that the whole consignment
            complies with paragraphs (c) and (d); and

        (f) the container of the fruits or vegetables constituting the
            consignment bears the producer’s name and address and
            such other particulars as may be prescribed.

 (2) A licensee must not tranship any fresh fruit or vegetable unless
the licensee has obtained a permit from the Director‑General in
respect of each consignment of fresh fruits or vegetables to be
transhipped by the licensee and the transhipment is carried out by the
licensee in accordance with the conditions of the permit.

 (3) Any licensee who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
11  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), in any proceedings for an offence
under subsection (3), it is a defence for the person charged (A) to
prove —

    (a) that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
         default of another person or some other cause beyond A’s
         control; and

    (b) that A took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
         diligence to avoid the commission of such an offence by A
         or by any person under A’s control.

 (5) If in any case the defence provided by subsection (4) involves
the allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person, the person charged is not, without
permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless,
within a period ending 7 clear days before the hearing, the person has
served on the prosecutor a written notice giving such information as
was then in the person’s possession identifying or assisting in the
identification of that other person.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) In this section —

    “container” means the basket, carton, bag, box, packet or other
       receptacle which contains the fresh fruits or vegetables and,
       where any such receptacle is contained in another such
       receptacle, includes the latter receptacle;

    “licensee” means a person who has obtained a licence as
       required under section 7 for the import or transhipment (as
       the case may be) of any fresh fruit or vegetable.

                                    PART 3
             CONTROL OF CULTIVATION OF PLANTS
Application of this Part
 9. This Part does not apply to —
       (a) the cultivation of any plant for domestic and home
            gardening purposes; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               12

(b) the cultivation of any plant which is not for sale.

No cultivation of plants without licence

 10. A person must not cultivate any plant on any premises except
under and in accordance with a licence issued by the
Director‑General.

Use of pesticide

 11.—(1) A person must not use any pesticide in the cultivation of
any plant unless —

       (a) the pesticide is registered with the Director-General; and

       (b) the person is a certified pesticide operator or the use is
            supervised by a certified pesticide operator.

 (2) Any person who uses any pesticide in the cultivation of any
plant must ensure that —

       (a) the pesticide is properly stored in the prescribed manner;

       (b) the pesticide container is disposed of in the prescribed
            manner; and

       (c) the pesticide residue on any plant cultivated does not
            exceed the prescribed level.

Certified pesticide operator

 12.—(1) A person who desires to be certified as a pesticide operator
may make an application to the Director-General.

 (2) The Director-General may certify a person as a pesticide
operator if the Director-General is satisfied that —

       (a) the person possesses the prescribed qualifications and
            practical experience; and

       (b) the person is in all other respects a fit and proper person to
            be entrusted to apply or otherwise use pesticides safely.

 (3) Where a person is certified as a pesticide operator, the
Director‑General must issue the person a certificate to that effect.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
13  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

Suspension or cancellation of certification of pesticide operator

 13. The Director-General may suspend or cancel the certification of
a person as a pesticide operator if the pesticide operator —

    (a) uses or supervises the use of any pesticide which is not
         registered with the Director-General;

    (b) uses or supervises the use of any pesticide otherwise than
         in accordance with the instructions specified by the
         manufacturer of the pesticide;

    (c) is responsible for any failure to store any pesticide in the
        prescribed manner;

    (d) disposes or causes or allows the disposal of any pesticide
         container otherwise than in the prescribed manner; or

    (e) fails to keep any records of the use of any pesticide that the
        Director-General may require.

Application for registration of pesticide

 14.—(1) Every pesticide for use in the cultivation of any plant must
be registered with the Director-General.

 (2) An application for registration under subsection (1) must be
made in such manner and form and accompanied by such documents
and particulars as may be required by the Director‑General.

 (3) The Director-General may establish one or more committees
consisting of any persons that the Director‑General may appoint for
the purpose of advising him or her on any matters arising out of any
application for registration under this section as are referred to any
such committee by the Director-General.

Protection of confidential supporting information about
innovative pesticides

 15.—(1) Where the Director-General receives an innovative
pesticide application and confidential supporting information, the
Director‑General, during the protected period in relation to that
confidential supporting information —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               14

(a) must take reasonable steps to ensure that the confidential
     supporting information is kept confidential to the
     Director‑General; and

(b) must not use the confidential supporting information for
     the purposes of determining whether to grant any other
     application.

 (2) In this section and section 16, unless the context otherwise
requires —

“application” means an application for registration of a pesticide
   under section 14;

“confidential information” includes —

          (a) trade secrets; and

          (b) information that has commercial value that would be,
               or would be likely to be, diminished by disclosure;

“confidential supporting information” means confidential
   information given —

          (a) in, or in relation to, an innovative pesticide
               application; and

          (b) about the pesticide that is or was (as the case may be)
               the subject of that application;

“Director-General” includes any public officer or officer of the
   Board or of any other statutory authority authorised under
   section 6 to carry out registration of pesticides under
   section 14;

“ingredient” includes a chemical or biological entity;

“innovative pesticide application” means in relation to an
   application made after 8 January 1999, an application that
   refers to an active ingredient —

          (a) that is an active ingredient of the pesticide to which
               the application relates; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
15  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

    (b) that has not, before that application is received by the
         Director-General, been mentioned in any other
         application as an active ingredient of the pesticide;

    “protected period”, in relation to confidential supporting
       information relating to an innovative pesticide application
       received by the Director-General, means a period of 5 years
       from the date the innovative pesticide application is or was
       (as the case may be) received by the Director-General.

                                                             [10/2019]

Circumstances where protection under section 15 does not
apply

 16.—(1) Despite section 15, the Director-General may, during the
protected period in relation to confidential supporting information —

       (a) disclose that confidential supporting information, or use
            that confidential supporting information for the purposes
            of determining whether to grant any application other than
            the application to which it relates or related, as the case
            may be —

               (i) with the consent of the applicant who made the
                   application to which the confidential supporting
                   information relates or related; or

              (ii) if that disclosure or use is, in the opinion of the
                   Director‑General, necessary to protect the health or
                   safety of members of the public;

       (b) disclose that confidential supporting information to a
            Government department or statutory body for the
            purposes of the Government department or statutory
            body if, in the opinion of the Director‑General, the
            Government department or statutory body will take
            reasonable steps to ensure the confidential supporting
            information is kept confidential; or

       (c) disclose that confidential supporting information to any
            one or more of the following:

               (i) the World Health Organisation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               16

          (ii) the Food and Agriculture Organisation;

          (iii) any regulatory agency of a WTO Country;

          (iv) any committee established under section 14(3);

          (v) any person or organisation, or a person or an
               organisation within a class or classes of persons or
               organisations, approved by any rules made under this
               Act, if the disclosure is in accordance with such
               conditions as may be specified in the rules.

 (2) The power to grant consent under subsection (1)(a)(i) may be
exercised by a person other than the applicant mentioned in that
subsection if —

(a) that applicant —

          (i) has notified the Director-General in writing that that
              other person may grant that consent; and

          (ii) has not notified the Director-General in writing that
               that person’s authority to grant that consent has been
               withdrawn; or

(b) that applicant’s rights in respect of the relevant confidential
     supporting information have been transferred to that
     person and the applicant or that other person has notified
     the Director-General in writing of the transfer.

 (3) In this section, “WTO Country” means a country that is a party
to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation adopted
at Marrakesh on 15 April 1994.

                                    PART 4
                          PROHIBITED PLANTS
Minister may prohibit cultivation of plants
 17.—(1) The Minister may by order prohibit, either absolutely or
conditionally, the cultivation of any plant in Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
17  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) may provide that a person
must not cultivate any prohibited plant except under and in
accordance with a permit issued by the Director-General.

Presumption that owner and occupier permitted growing of
prohibited plants

 18. If any prohibited plant is found growing on any land in
contravention of any order made under section 17, the owner and the
occupier of the land are deemed to have permitted the plant to grow
unless the owner or the occupier (as the case may be) proves —

       (a) that the plant was planted without the owner’s or the
            occupier’s knowledge and consent; and

       (b) that on becoming aware of the existence of the plant the
            owner or the occupier forthwith effectually eradicated and
            destroyed it.

Certificate of Director-General to be conclusive evidence

 19. A certificate under the hand of the Director-General stating that
any plant is a prohibited plant is conclusive evidence of the facts
stated in the certificate.

Eradication and destruction of prohibited plants

 20.—(1) Any prohibited plant cultivated in contravention of any
order made under section 17 may be eradicated and destroyed by the
Director-General or any person acting under his or her authority.

 (2) The cost of such eradication and destruction is recoverable from
the owner or occupier of the land on which the prohibited plant was
planted or permitted to grow or from the person who planted it, as a
debt due to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               18

          PART 5

          CONTROL OF PESTS

Power to direct destruction or treatment of plants, etc.

 21.—(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether any pest is present
on or in any land or premises, an authorised officer may, upon serving
written notice under the hand of the Director-General on the owner or
occupier of the land or premises and upon producing, if so requested,
an identification card —

(a) enter the land or premises and examine any plant, plant
     product, package, soil or article on the land or premises at
     all reasonable times; and

(b) take, without payment, any sample of any plant, plant
     product or soil.

 (2) The notice mentioned in subsection (1) must be served on the
owner or occupier of the land or premises at least 6 hours before the
time of intended entry of the land or premises.

 (3) If, as a result of any examination by an authorised officer under
subsection (1), it appears to the authorised officer that any land or
premises or plant is in a condition favourable to the introduction or
spread of any pest or that any plant is diseased — the
Director‑General may, by written notice under his or her hand
addressed to the owner or occupier of the land or premises where that
condition exists or where the plant is, direct the owner or occupier of
the land or premises to take within a time to be stated in the notice
such measures as may appear to the Director‑General necessary or
expedient for —

(a) the eradication or the prevention of the spread of any pest,
     either by destruction or by treatment in a manner to be
     specified in the notice of that plant or any plant or of any
     pest or of any tool or utensil used for agricultural or
     industrial purposes on the land or premises including the
     cessation of obtaining or abstracting any product from any
     plant on the land or premises; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
19  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

    (b) the treatment of the land or premises or plant or of any tool
         or utensil used for agricultural or industrial purposes on the
         land or premises with a view to bringing them into a
         condition not favourable to the introduction or spread of
         any pest.

 (4) If the owner or occupier of any land or premises fails to comply
with a notice under subsection (3) within the time stated for the
performance of the acts required to be done, any authorised officer
may —

    (a) enter upon the land or premises to which the notice refers;

    (b) cause any person authorised by him or her to enter with
         such instruments and things as are necessary; and

    (c) proceed to perform all acts required by the notice,

and the costs and expenses thereof are recoverable as a debt due from
the owner or occupier to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) Nothing in subsection (4) affects the liability of any person to
prosecution and punishment under subsection (7).

 (6) Any person who obstructs or hinders the Director-General or an
authorised officer in the exercise of any of his or her powers under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (7) Any owner or occupier of any land or premises who wilfully
fails to comply with the notice under subsection (3) within the time
stated shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
to a further fine not exceeding $100 for every day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Placing land under quarantine

 22.—(1) Where the Director-General is of the opinion that any
plant on any land is diseased, he or she may make an order placing the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               20

land or any part of the land in quarantine for any period that the order
may prescribe.

 (2) So long as an order of quarantine applies to any land, a person
must not remove any plant from the land except under and in
accordance with the direction of an authorised officer.

 (3) Any land placed in quarantine under subsection (1) continues in
quarantine until the Director-General certifies that no plant on the
land is diseased.

Application for examination of quarantined area

 23.—(1) Any owner or occupier of any land quarantined under
section 22(1) may apply to an authorised officer to examine the
quarantined area with a view to obtaining from the authorised officer
the certificate referred to in section 22(3).

 (2) The authorised officer must, as soon as possible after receipt of
such an application, visit and examine the quarantined area and may
charge any fees that may be prescribed for such visit and
examination.

Power to order immediate destruction of plants

 24.—(1) If in the Director‑General’s opinion the destruction of any
diseased plant is a matter of necessity and extreme urgency, he or she
may forthwith make a written order directing the immediate
destruction of the plant by any person mentioned in the order.

 (2) Such plant must be destroyed accordingly and the cost of the
destruction, if incurred by any person other than the owner or
occupier of the land where the diseased plant was, must be defrayed
by the owner or occupier.

Clearing diseased land

 25.—(1) Where it appears to an authorised officer that any plant on
any land is diseased and he or she is of the opinion that it is necessary
for the prevention of the spread of any pest that the land be entirely
cleared of cultivation or cleared of all cultivation of any particular
species — the Director‑General may, with the approval of the
Minister, by written notice addressed to the owner or occupier of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
21  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

land where the plant is, direct the owner or occupier to fell and burn or
otherwise destroy within a time to be stated in the notice and to the
satisfaction of the authorised officer all cultivation or all cultivation
of the species named in the notice.

 (2) The action directed by a notice under subsection (1) may be
enforced in the manner provided by section 21(4) for the enforcement
of the action directed by a notice under section 21(3).

 (3) If the owner or occupier of any land on whom a notice under
subsection (1) has been served fails to comply with the notice, the
owner or occupier of the land shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500
for every day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Compensation

 26. Where any cultivation has been destroyed pursuant to a notice
issued under section 25(1), the Minister may, in his or her discretion,
direct the payment out of the Consolidated Fund of compensation for
that cultivation subject to the following provisions:

       (a) no compensation is to be paid for any diseased plant;

       (b) the value of any cultivation is to be taken to be the market
            value of that cultivation at the time of its destruction and if
            any question arises as to the market value, the
            Director‑General’s decision is final; and

       (c) the Minister may entirely withhold or may reduce the
            amount of compensation for the destruction of any
            cultivation if the owner or occupier of the land has done
            anything in contravention of, or has failed to comply with,
            any notice issued under this Part or has by the owner’s or
            occupier’s neglect contributed to the introduction of the
            pest.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               22

Accredited pest control agency

 27. The Director-General may register any fit and proper person
possessing the prescribed qualifications and practical experience as
an accredited pest control agency —

(a) to carry out, at any place, any inspection, identification,
     analysis, treatment, detention, destruction or disposal of
     any plant, plant product, pest, or any soil or other material
     attached to any plant or plant product under this Act and
     any rules made under this Act; and

(b) to issue phytosanitary certificates.

                                    PART 6

                           EXPORT OF PLANTS

Minister may prohibit export of plants

 28.—(1) The Minister may by order prohibit, either absolutely or
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order, the export
of any plant from Singapore to any country, territory or place.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may specify that a person must
not export any plant except under and in accordance with a permit
issued by the Director-General.

Advisory committee

 29. The Minister may establish one or more advisory committees
consisting of any members that the Minister may appoint, to advise
the Minister on the exercise of his or her power to make any order
under section 28, and on other subjects connected therewith.

Phytosanitary certificate

 30.—(1) Any authorised officer or accredited pest control agency
may, on application and on such terms as the Director-General may
require, issue a phytosanitary certificate stating that any plant or plant
product is free from pests for the purpose of export.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
23  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

(2) Any person who wilfully —

    (a) gives false information for the purpose of obtaining a
         phytosanitary certificate;

    (b) falsifies any phytosanitary certificate; or

    (c) uses a phytosanitary certificate with intention of causing it
        to be believed that a plant or plant product which is not a
        plant or plant product in respect of which the phytosanitary
        certificate was issued, is a plant or plant product in respect
        of which the certificate was issued,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                    PART 7

                         LICENCE AND PERMIT

Application for licence or permit

 31.—(1) An application —

       (a) for a licence under section 7 or 10;

       (b) for a permit under section 8; or

       (c) where provision is made by an order under section 17(1) or
            28(1) for the issue by the Director-General of a permit, for
            a permit under that section,

must be made to the Director-General in such manner and form as the
Director-General may require and must be accompanied by the
prescribed fee and such particulars, information and documents as the
Director-General may require.

 (2) On the receipt of an application under subsection (1), the
Director-General may —

       (a) issue the licence or permit applied for, with or without
            conditions; or

       (b) refuse to issue the licence or permit applied for.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               24

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the Director-General may grant
a licence under section 7 or 10 subject to such conditions as the
Director-General thinks fit, including but not limited to the conditions
necessary or related to ensuring a secure and reliable supply in
Singapore of any fresh fruits or vegetables.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) Without limiting subsection (2), the Director-General may, in
respect of an application for a licence under section 7 or a permit
under section 8 —

(a) refuse to issue the licence or permit; or

(b) impose a condition restricting or prohibiting the import or
     transhipment of any fresh fruit or vegetable from any
     country, territory, place or farm,

if he or she considers that this is necessary to protect the health or
safety of members of the public.

 (5) Where the Director-General has refused to issue the licence or
permit applied for, he or she must give the applicant written notice of
the reasons for his or her refusal.

 (6) The Director-General may at any time vary or revoke any of the
conditions imposed under subsection (2)(a) or impose new
conditions.

(7) Every licence or permit issued under this section —

(a) must be in the form that the Director-General may
     determine;

(b) is valid for the period stated in the licence or permit unless
     it is sooner revoked under section 32; and

          (c) may, unless it is a permit under section 8, be renewed upon
              its expiry.

 (8) Subsections (1) to (7) apply, with the necessary modifications,
to an application for the renewal of a licence under section 7 or 10 or a
permit under section 17(1) or 28(1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
25  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

Revocation or suspension of licence or permit

 32.—(1) The Director-General may at any time revoke or suspend a
licence or permit.

 (2) The Director-General must, before taking any action mentioned
in subsection (1), notify the person concerned of his or her intention
to take such action and must give the person concerned an
opportunity to submit reasons why such action should not be taken
against the person.

 (3) Where the Director-General has revoked or suspended a licence
or permit under this Act, he or she must give written notice of the
suspension or revocation to the person concerned.

 (4) Where a permit issued by the Director‑General pursuant to an
order made under section 17 is revoked or has expired, the person
issued with the permit must eradicate and destroy all or any of the
prohibited plants planted or cultivated or maintained in pursuance
thereof.

 (5) Any prohibited plant not eradicated and destroyed under
subsection (4) is deemed to have been grown in contravention of
section 17.

Appeal

 33.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by —

       (a) the Director‑General’s refusal to issue or renew a licence or
            permit under section 31;

       (b) the Director‑General’s decision to suspend or revoke a
            licence or permit under section 32,

may, within 7 days of the receipt of the notice informing the person of
the refusal, suspension or revocation (as the case may be) appeal in
writing to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (2) Despite the fact that any appeal under subsection (1) in respect
of the suspension or revocation of a licence or permit is pending, such
suspension or revocation, unless the Minister otherwise orders, takes
effect from the date specified by the Director-General.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               26

                      PART 8

          MISCELLANEOUS

Penalty

34. Any person who —

(a) contravenes or fails to comply with section 10, 11(1) and
     (2), 22(2) or 41; or

(b) contravenes or fails to comply with any order made by the
     Minister under section 17(1) or 28(1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

Offences committed by body corporate

 35. Where —

       (a) an offence under this Act or any rules made under this Act
            has been committed by a body corporate; and

       (b) it is proved that the offence was committed with the
            consent or connivance of, or attributable to any neglect by,
            any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
            the body corporate, or any person who was purporting to
            act in such capacity,

he or she, as well as the body corporate, shall be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

Offences committed by agent or employee

 36. Where —

       (a) an offence under this Act or any rules made under this Act
            is committed by any person (A) —

               (i) acting as the agent or employee of another
                   person (B); or

              (ii) being otherwise subject to the supervision or
                   instruction of B for the purposes of any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
27  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

    employment in the course of which the offence was
    committed; and

    (b) it is proved that the act that constituted the offence was —

    (i) committed with B’s consent or connivance; or

    (ii) attributable to B’s neglect,

B shall (without affecting A’s liability) be liable for the offence in the
same manner and to the same extent as if B had personally committed
the offence.

General powers of authorised officers

 37.—(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether any offence under
this Act or any rules made under this Act has been or is being
committed, any authorised officer may, on producing, if so requested,
an identification card —

       (a) enter and inspect any land or premises and examine any
            plant, plant product, package, soil or article on the land or
            premises at all reasonable times;

       (b) stop, examine, board, enter or detain any conveyance used
            for carrying any plant, plant product or package;

       (c) take, without payment, any sample of any plant, plant
            product or soil;

       (d) seize, remove or detain any plant, plant product, package,
            pest or soil;

       (e) break open any hold, compartment or container or other
            receptacle including any place that could be used as a
            receptacle; or

        (f) by written order require any person in Singapore whom the
            authorised officer has reason to believe to be acquainted
            with any fact or circumstance relevant to that purpose to
            attend before the authorised officer to answer any question
            (to the best of that person’s knowledge, information and
            belief) and to furnish any document or information.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               28

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(f) is bound to state truly
the facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted
concerning the case except only that the person may decline to make,
with regard to any fact or circumstance, a statement which would
have a tendency to expose the person to a criminal charge or to
penalty or forfeiture.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under
subsection (1)(f) must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) If any person fails to attend before an authorised officer as
required by an order under subsection (1)(f), the Director‑General or
authorised officer may report the failure to a Magistrate who may
issue a warrant to secure the attendance of that person as required by
the order.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) The owner or occupier of any land, premises or conveyance
must, if requested by an authorised officer, provide reasonable
assistance to the authorised officer for the purpose of the exercise of
his or her powers under this section and furnish any information
relating to the land or premises which is reasonably required by the
authorised officer for the purposes of the discharge of his or her duties
under this Act.

 (6) A police officer may arrest without warrant any person who has
committed or whom he or she reasonably suspects to have committed
an offence under this Act or any rules made under this Act —

(a) if the person refuses to give his or her name and address; or

(b) if there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and
     address, if given.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
29              Control of Plants Act 1993                   2020 Ed.

 (7) A person arrested under this section may be detained until his or
her name and address are correctly ascertained, except that a person
must not be detained longer than is necessary for bringing him or her
before a court.

 (8) Any person who obstructs or hinders any authorised officer in
the exercise of any of his or her powers under this Act or any rules
made under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

(9) A person —

    (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
         document or information which the person has been
         required by or under subsection (1) to furnish;

    (b) who, in furnishing any document or information required
         by or under subsection (1), makes any statement which the
         person knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is
         reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a material
         particular; or

    (c) who intentionally fails to comply with a lawful demand of
        an authorised officer in the discharge of the duties by such
        an officer under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Power to label for identification

 38.—(1) Any authorised officer may, where he or she considers it
necessary for the purposes of identification, label permanently or
temporarily, any consignment of plants or plant products.

 (2) Any person who wilfully counterfeits, alters, defaces, erases or
removes any such label shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               30

Power to take samples for analysis

 39.—(1) An authorised officer may, for the purposes of
ascertaining the presence of prohibited pesticide residue and the
levels of pesticide residue or toxic chemical residue contained in any
fresh fruit or vegetable —

(a) enter any premises at all reasonable times to take (without
     payment) a reasonable sample of fresh fruits or vegetables
     for analysis by an authorised analyst; and

(b) detain the whole lot from which the sample is taken under
     normal storage conditions until a report of the result of the
     analysis is obtained.

 (2) A report of the result of an analysis which is signed by an
authorised analyst is admissible in evidence in any proceedings under
this Act or any rules made under this Act and, in the absence of
evidence to the contrary, is proof of the matters stated in the report.

Power to dispose of, etc., fresh fruits and vegetables

 40.—(1) Where any sample of fresh fruits or vegetables is
determined by an authorised analyst to contain any prohibited
pesticide residue, or any pesticide residue or toxic chemical residue
exceeding the prescribed levels, the Director-General may, in his or
her discretion, cause the whole lot of fresh fruits or vegetables from
which the sample is taken, to be —

       (a) re-exported or returned to its place of origin;

       (b) treated in such manner as he or she may direct so as to
            remove or aid the dissipation of the residue to the
            prescribed levels; or

       (c) disposed of in any manner that he or she may direct.

 (2) The cost of, and all expenses incurred in, the re-exporting,
returning, treatment or disposal under subsection (1) must be
defrayed by the owner, grower or importer of the fresh fruits or
vegetables.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
31  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

Access to documents, books and records

 41. Any person who imports for sale or supply or who grows fresh
fruits or vegetables must, on demand, afford the Director-General
access to, and produce, such documents, books or records relating to
or reasonably believed to relate to the fresh fruits or vegetables as the
Director-General may require.

Forfeiture

 42.—(1) Where any person is convicted of any offence under this
Act or any rules made under this Act, the court may order that any
article seized under this Act or any rules made under this Act or in
respect of which the offence was committed, be forfeited to the
Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) Where a person who is charged for an offence under this Act or
any rules made under this Act is acquitted, the court may order any
article seized under this Act or any rules made under this Act to be
released to the person from whom the article was seized.

 (3) Where the owner of the article cannot be ascertained, the Board
may confiscate the article seized.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) Every article so forfeited to the Board must be disposed of in
any manner that the Board thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Presumption of ownership

 43. Where in any proceedings under this Act or any rules made
under this Act a question arises as to the ownership of any plant, plant
product, pest or article, the person found in possession of the plant,
plant product, pest or article is presumed to be the owner thereof until
the contrary is proved.

Service of notices

 44.—(1) Where under this Act or any rules made under this Act any
notice, order or document is required or authorised to be served on
any person, it may be served by —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               32

(a) delivering it personally or by leaving it with some adult
     person at the last known place of residence or business of
     the person to be served;

(b) leaving it at the usual or last known place of residence or
     business of the person to be served in a cover addressed to
     that person, or posting it upon a conspicuous part of those
     premises; or

          (c) sending it by registered post addressed to the person to be
              served at the person’s usual or last known place of
              residence or business.

 (2) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or the occupier of any premises is
deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the description of
the “owner” or “occupier” of the premises without further name or
description.

Protection from liability

 45. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Director‑General or any authorised officer in respect of anything
done or omitted to be done in the discharge of their duties under this
Act or any rules made under this Act unless the thing was done or
omitted to be done in bad faith.

Fees, etc., payable to Board

 46. All fees, charges and moneys collected under this Act or any
rules made under this Act (except composition sums) must be paid to
the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Composition of offences

 47.—(1) The Director-General may compound any offence under
this Act or any rules made under this Act which is prescribed as an
offence which may be compounded by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding $1,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
33  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister may prescribe the offences which may be
compounded.

 (3) Where an offence is compounded under this Act or any rules
made under this Act, any article seized must be forfeited to the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) All composition sums collected under this section must be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Exemption

 48. The Minister may, either generally or in any particular case, and
subject to any conditions that the Minister may impose, exempt any
person from all or any of the provisions of this Act or any rules made
under this Act.

Rules

 49.—(1) The Minister may make rules for or with respect to any
matter which may be necessary or expedient for carrying out the
provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules may be made —

       (a) providing for the powers and duties of the authorised
            officers;

       (b) providing for matters relating to registration, licensing,
            certification and the issue of permits;

       (c) prescribing the procedure, condition or location for the
            import or transhipment of any fresh fruit and vegetable;

       (d) providing for matters relating to the taking of samples of
            fresh fruits and vegetables under section 39 for analysis,
            and for matters relating to such analysis;

       (e) prescribing the qualifications and practical experience of
            an authorised analyst;

        (f) prescribing the sanitary standards mentioned in
            section 8(1)(d);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Control of Plants Act 1993                               34

(g) providing for the inspection, observation, detention,
     identification, treatment, destruction, reshipment or
     disposal of any plant or plant product;

(h) prescribing the levels of any pesticide residue or toxic
     chemical residue in or on any plant or plant product;

          (i) providing for the control and eradication of pests and
              preventing their spread within Singapore;

          (j) prescribing the manner of entry upon any land and the
              conduct of any examination, inspection, detention,
              quarantine, treatment or destruction of any plant, plant
              product, pest, soil or any other article on the land;

          (k) prohibiting or restricting the introduction into Singapore of
              any plant, plant product, pest, soil or package or other thing
              which is likely to introduce pests into Singapore;

          (l) prohibiting or restricting the introduction into Singapore of
              any prohibited plant;

(m) prescribing treatment for aircraft or any other conveyance
     arriving from overseas and the procedure to be adopted on
     their arrival so as to prevent the introduction of any pest
     into Singapore;

(n) requiring every person arriving in Singapore from overseas
     to give a certificate declaring in any form that may be
     prescribed whether he or she has any plant, plant product,
     fungus, bacterium, virus or micro-organism or any insect,
     mite or other invertebrate animal or any soil in his or her
     possession;

(o) providing for the inspection, observation, disinfection,
     treatment, destruction, reshipment or disposal of any plant
     introduced into Singapore and the progeny of any such
     plant or any soil, package or other thing;

(p) providing for the control of plants kept or grown in
     isolation or under quarantine conditions;

(q) prescribing the areas within Singapore where any plant,
     plant product, pest or package may be landed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
35  Control of Plants Act 1993                               2020 Ed.

    (r) providing for the detention or the quarantine of any plant,
        plant product or package suspected of harbouring any pest
        and prescribing the treatment or the destruction thereof;

    (s) regulating the use of any pesticide in the cultivation of
        plants;

    (t) prescribing the qualifications and practical experience of a
        certified pesticide operator;

    (u) providing for matters relating to the registration, labelling,
         packing, use, storage, disposal and record keeping of any
         pesticide used in the cultivation of plants;

    (v) providing for the licensing, control, supervision and
        inspection of any land or premises on which any plant or
        plant product is grown, produced, processed, sold, stored
        or used, including prescribing the records that must be kept
        by a licensed grower or other licensee and the provision of
        returns and other information by licensed growers or other
        licensees to the Director‑General with respect to fresh
        fruits or vegetables which are the subject of the activity
        authorised by the licence;

    (w) providing for the registration, control and supervision of
         any accredited pest control agency; and

       (x) prescribing the forms, fees or registers for the purposes of
            this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) The Minister may, in any rules made under this Act, provide that
any contravention of or failure to comply with any provision in the
rules shall be an offence and may prescribe a penalty for any such
offence of a fine not exceeding $10,000 or imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 years or both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  CONTROL OF PLANTS ACT 1993

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                           PART 1
            AGRICULTURAL PESTS ACT
      (CHAPTER 5, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 25 of 1918 — Agricultural Pests Ordinance, 1918

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1075/1918

First Reading         : 2 September 1918

Second Reading        : 14 October 1918

Notice of Amendments  : 14 October 1918

Third Reading         : 11 November 1918

Commencement          : 21 November 1918

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                ii

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 166 (Agricultural Pests)

Operation       : 28 November 1921

3. Ordinance 2 of 1924 — Agricultural Pests (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                   1924

Bill            : G.N. No. 1866/1923

First Reading   : 17 December 1923

Second Reading  : 18 February 1924

Third Reading   : 14 April 1924

Commencement    : 3 May 1924

4. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 166 (Agricultural Pests)

Operation       : 1 August 1926

5. Ordinance 18 of 1926 — The Agricultural Pests (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1926

Bill            : G.N. No. 577/1926

First Reading   : 17 May 1926

Second Reading  : 12 July 1926

Third Reading   : 6 September 1926

Commencement    : 24 September 1926

6. Ordinance 15 of 1929 — Agricultural Pests (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                    1929

Bill            : G.N. No. 951/1929

First Reading   : 3 July 1929

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 1929

Commencement    : 18 September 1929

7. 1936 Revised Edition — Agricultural Pests Ordinance (Chapter 140)

Operation       : 1 September 1936

8. Ordinance 10 of 1950 — Departmental Titles (Alteration) Ordinance,
                                    1950

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill            : G.N. No. S 31/1950

First Reading   : 22 February 1950

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      iii

Second Reading        : 21 March 1950

Notice of Amendments  : 21 March 1950

Third Reading         : 21 March 1950

Commencement          : 28 March 1950 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

9. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 41 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 41 of the Schedule)

10. 1955 Revised Edition — Agricultural Pests Ordinance (Chapter 231)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

11. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959

12. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

13. 1970 Revised Edition — Agricultural Pests Act (Chapter 288)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

14. G.N. No. S 47/1986 — Metrication (Agricultural Pests Act) Order 1986

Commencement          : 21 February 1986

15. 1985 Revised Edition — Agricultural Pests Act (Chapter 5)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      iv

                                 PART 2
                  CONTROLLED PLANTS ACT
           (CHAPTER 59, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

16. Ordinance 54 of 1941 — Controlled Plants Ordinance, 1941

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1968/1941

First Reading         : 25 August 1941

Second and Third Readings : 13 October 1941

Commencement          : 28 October 1941

17. Ordinance 10 of 1950 — Departmental Titles (Alteration) Ordinance,
                                      1950

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 31/1950

First Reading         : 22 February 1950

Second Reading        : 21 March 1950

Notice of Amendments  : 21 March 1950

Third Reading         : 21 March 1950

Commencement          : 28 March 1950 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

18. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 109 of the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 109 of the Schedule)

19. 1955 Revised Edition — Controlled Plants Ordinance (Chapter 232)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

20. 1970 Revised Edition — Controlled Plants Act (Chapter 291)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      v

21. 1985 Revised Edition — Controlled Plants Act (Chapter 59)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

                                  PART 3
            EXPORT OF PLANTS (CONTROL) ACT
           (CHAPTER 101, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

22. Ordinance 26 of 1939 — Export of Plants (Control) Ordinance, 1939

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1687/1939

First Reading         : 12 June 1939

Second and Third Readings : 28 August 1939

Commencement          : 11 September 1939

23. Ordinance 10 of 1950 — Departmental Titles (Alteration) Ordinance,
                                      1950

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 31/1950

First Reading         : 22 February 1950

Second Reading        : 21 March 1950

Notice of Amendments  : 21 March 1950

Third Reading         : 21 March 1950

Commencement          : 28 March 1950 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

24. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 95 of the Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 95 of the Schedule)

25. 1955 Revised Edition — Export of Plants (Control) Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 233)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               vi

26. 1970 Revised Edition — Export of Plants (Control) Act (Chapter 292)

Operation      : 31 August 1971

27. 1985 Revised Edition — Export of Plants (Control) Act (Chapter 101)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                PART 4
               CONTROL OF PLANTS ACT 1993

                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

28. Act 18 of 1993 — Control of Plants Act 1993

Bill           : 9/1993

First Reading  : 26 February 1993

Second and Third Readings : 12 April 1993

Commencement   : 18 February 1994

29. 1994 Revised Edition — Control of Plants Act (Chapter 57A)

Operation      : 15 March 1994

30. Act 32 of 1998 — Control of Plants (Amendment) Act 1998

Bill           : 31/1998

First Reading  : 29 June 1998

Second and Third Readings : 31 July 1998

Commencement   : 8 January 1999

31. 1999 Revised Edition — Control of Plants Act (Chapter 57A)

Operation      : 1 August 1999

32. Act 16 of 2000 — Agri-food and Veterinary Authority Act 2000
     (Amendments made by section 47 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 11/2000

First Reading  : 21 February 2000

Second and Third Readings : 17 March 2000

Commencement   : 1 April 2000 (section 47 read with
                     item (2) of the Schedule)

33. 2000 Revised Edition — Control of Plants Act (Chapter 57A)

Operation      : 30 December 2000

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      vii

34. Act 2 of 2020 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 36/2019

First Reading         : 4 November 2019

Second Reading        : 6 January 2020

Notice of Amendments  : 6 January 2020

Third Reading         : 6 January 2020

Commencement          : 30 November 2005 (section 3)

35. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 10 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 4/2019

First Reading         : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (section 10)

36. 2020 Revised Edition — Control of Plants Act 1993

Operation             : 31 December 2021

37. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
              COMPARATIVE TABLE
        CONTROL OF PLANTS ACT 1993

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.           2000 Ed.

7—(2)             7—(1A)
   (3)               (1B)
   (4)               (2)

31—(3)            31—(2A)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (4)
   (6)               (5)
   (7)               (6)
   (8)               (7)

37—(2)            37—(1A)
   (3)               (1B)
   (4)               (1C)
   (5)               (2)
   (6)               (3)
   (7)               (4)
   (8)               (5)
   (9)               (6)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
