THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             REGISTERED DESIGNS ACT 2000

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Registered Designs Act 2000

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                               PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Act binds Government
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

                         REGISTRATION OF DESIGNS

                       Division 1 — Ownership of Designs

 4. Owner of design

                        Division 2 — Registrable Designs

 5. New design may be registered
 6. Designs contrary to public order or morality
 7. Computer programs, etc., not registrable
 8. Disclosure, etc., of design before certain date
 8A. Disclosure of design on or after certain date
 8B. Disclosure of design to be registered in respect of non‑physical

         product
 9. Provisions as to artistic works
10. Subsequent registration of design in respect of other articles or

         non-physical products, etc.

                   Division 3 — Proceedings for Registration

11. Application for registration
12. Claim to priority of Convention application
13. Claim to priority of other overseas applications
14. Withdrawal of application
15. Amendment of application
16. Examination of application

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                                    2

Section   New application treated as filed on date of filing of earlier
   16A.   application
          Refusal of application
   17.    Registration and publication
   18.    Deferment of publication
   18A.   Only formality examination required
   19.    Date of registration
   20.

          Division 4 — Duration of Registration

21. Initial period of registration and extension
22. Exceptions relating to artistic works, etc.

          Division 5 — Proceedings for Determination of Rights
                              in Registered Designs

23. Determination of rights after registration
24. Effect of order made under section 23 on third party
25. Licences granted by order of Court

          Division 6 — Surrender and Revocation of Registration

26. Surrender of registration
27. Revocation of registration

          Division 7 — Miscellaneous

28. Right to information
29. Provisions for secrecy of certain designs

                                        PART 3

                     RIGHTS IN REGISTERED DESIGNS

      Division 1 — Rights of Registered Owner of Registered Design

30. Rights conferred by registration
30A. Registration subject to disclaimer
31. Rights of third parties to continue use of registered designs

                        Division 2 — Registered Design as
                                  Object of Property

32. Nature of registered design
33. Co-ownership of registered design
34. Registration of transactions affecting registered design
35. Rights in application for registration

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
3        Registered Designs Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

         Division 3 — Infringement Proceedings

Section  Infringement proceedings
         Infringement proceedings by co-owner
   36.   Infringement proceedings by exclusive licensee
   37.   General restriction on recovery of damages or profits
   38.   Order for delivery up
   39.   Order for disposal
   40.   Declaration as to non-infringement
   41.   Certificate of contested validity of registration
   42.   Remedy for groundless threats of infringement proceedings
   43.
   44.

                                           PART 4

               GOVERNMENT USE OF REGISTERED DESIGNS

   45. Government use of registered designs
   46. Terms of Government use
   47. Provisions of licence, etc., to be ineffective
   48. References of disputes to Court

                                           PART 5

   ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

                                  Division 1 — Registrar

   49. Registrar of Designs and other officers
   50. Delegation by Registrar
   51. Registry of Designs
   52. Seal of Registry

                                  Division 2 — Register

   53. Register of Designs
   54. Rectification of Register
   55. Inspection of and extract from Register

                           Division 3 — Powers of Registrar

   56. Costs in proceedings before Registrar
   57. Correction of Register
   58. Powers of Registrar
   59. Disobedience to summons an offence
   60. Refusal to give evidence an offence
   61. Immunity of Office and Registrar as regards official acts

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                                         4

Section
   62. Appeal from decision or order of Registrar
   63. Exercise of discretionary power

          Division 4 — Hours of Business of Registry

64. Hours of business and excluded days

                                       PART 5A
       THE GENEVA ACT OF THE HAGUE AGREEMENT, ETC.

64A. Power to make provision giving effect to the Geneva Act of the
         Hague Agreement, etc.

                                        PART 6

                                      OFFENCES

65. Falsification of Register, etc.
66. False representation that design is registered
67. Offences by partnership or body corporate
68. Composition of offences

          PART 6A

          ASSISTANCE BY BORDER AUTHORITIES*

          Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

68A. Interpretation of this Part
68B. Administration of this Part
68C. Fees

          Division 2 — Seizure of goods on request

68D.      Request for seizure of infringing goods
68E.      Security for liability or expense of seizure, storage and disposal
68F.      Secure storage of seized goods
68G.      Notice of seizure
68H.      Persons bound to give information or produce documents
68I.      Information on import or export
68J.      Inspection of seized goods
68K.      Forfeiture of seized goods by consent
68L.      Compulsory release of seized goods to importer or exporter
68M.      Compensation for failure to take action
68N.      Infringement actions
68O.      Retention of control of seized goods

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
5  Registered Designs Act 2000                                     2020 Ed.

Section
   68P. Disposal of seized goods
   68Q. Insufficient security

   Division 3 — Powers of inspection

   68R. Powers of inspection in relation to vehicles
   68S. Examination of packages, etc.
   68T. Power to remove packages and goods to examination station
   68U. Inspection of baggage and belongings on person
   68V. Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises

   Division 4 — Miscellaneous provisions

   68W. Obstruction
   68X. Protection from personal liability

                                           PART 7

               MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

   69. Recognition of agents
   70. General powers of Court
   71. Costs in proceedings before Court
   72. Certificate of Registrar
   72A. Amendment of documents other than application for registration
   73. Fees
   74. General power to make rules
   75. Rules relating to application for registration
   76. Saving
   77. Transitional provisions

            The Schedule — Transitional Provisions

An Act to provide for the registration of designs in Singapore.
                                                         [13 November 2000]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Registered Designs Act 2000.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.        Registered Designs Act 2000                        6

Interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“application for registration”, in relation to a design, means an
   application under section 11 for the registration of the design;

“article” means any thing that is manufactured (whether by an
   industrial process, by hand or otherwise), and includes —

          (a) any part of an article, if that part is made and sold
               separately; and

          (b) any set of articles;

“artistic work” has the meaning given by section 20(1) of the
   Copyright Act 2021;

“Convention country” means a country or territory, other than
   Singapore, which is a party to the Paris Convention or a
   member of the World Trade Organisation;

“corresponding design”, in relation to an artistic work, means a
   design which, when applied to an article or a non‑physical
   product, results in a reproduction of that work;

“Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

“design” means features of shape, configuration, colours,
   pattern or ornament applied to any article or non‑physical
   product that give that article or non‑physical product its
   appearance, but does not include —

          (a) a method or principle of construction;

          (b) features of shape, configuration or colours of an
               article or a non‑physical product that —

                (i) are dictated solely by the function that the
                    article or non‑physical product has to perform;

                (ii) are dependent upon the appearance of another
                     article or non‑physical product of which the
                     article or non‑physical product is intended by
                     the designer to form an integral part; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
7  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

   (iii) enable the article or non‑physical product to be
         connected to, or placed in, around or against,
         another article or non‑physical product, so that
         either article or non‑physical product may
         perform its function; or

   (c) features consisting only of one or more colours
       that —

   (i) are not used with any feature of shape or
       configuration; and

   (ii) do not give rise to any feature of pattern or
        ornament;

   “designer”, in relation to a design, means the person who creates
      it or, if there are 2 or more such persons, each of those
      persons;

   “exclusive licence” means a licence from the registered owner
      of a registered design authorising the licensee, or the licensee
      and persons authorised by the licensee, to the exclusion of all
      other persons (including the registered owner), to use the
      design in the manner authorised by the licence and “exclusive
      licensee” is to be construed accordingly;

   “formal requirements” means —

   (a) the requirements of section 11(2)(c) and (4)(a); and

   (b) any other requirements of section 11, or of rules made
        for the purposes of that section, that are prescribed as
        formal requirements;

   “International Bureau” means the International Bureau of the
      World Intellectual Property Organisation;

   “non‑physical product” —

   (a) means any thing that —

   (i) does not have a physical form;

   (ii) is produced by the projection of a design on a
        surface or into a medium (including air); and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              8

          (iii) has an intrinsic utilitarian function that is not
                merely to portray the appearance of the thing or
                to convey information; and

          (b) includes any set of non‑physical products;

“Office” means the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore
   incorporated under the Intellectual Property Office of
   Singapore Act 2001;

“owner” has the meaning given by section 4;

“Paris Convention” means the Convention for the Protection of
   Industrial Property signed at Paris on 20 March 1883, as
   revised or amended from time to time;

“Register” means the Register of Designs maintained under
   section 53;

“registered design” means a design registered under this Act;

“registered owner”, in relation to a registered design, means the
   person whose name is for the time being entered in the
   Register as the owner of the design or, if there are 2 or more
   such persons, each of those persons;

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Designs referred to in
   section 49 and includes any Deputy Registrar of Designs
   referred to in that section;

“Registry” means the Registry of Designs established under
   section 51;

“set of articles” means 2 or more articles of the same general
   character that are ordinarily on sale together or intended to be
   used together, and to each of which the same design, or the
   same design with modifications or variations not sufficient to
   alter the character or substantially to affect the identity of the
   design, is applied;

“set of articles and non‑physical products” means one or more
   articles and one or more non‑physical products —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
9  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

   (a) all of which are of the same general character and are
        ordinarily on sale together or intended to be used
        together; and

   (b) to each of which the same design, or the same design
        with modifications or variations not sufficient to alter
        the character or substantially to affect the identity of
        the design, is applied;

   “set of non‑physical products” means 2 or more non‑physical
      products of the same general character that are ordinarily on
      sale together or intended to be used together, and to each of
      which the same design, or the same design with
      modifications or variations not sufficient to alter the
      character or substantially to affect the identity of the
      design, is applied.

                                                                         [16/2012; 29/2017; 40/2019; 22/2021]

   (2) Unless the context otherwise requires —

   (a) any reference in this Act to the filing of a document is to be
        construed as a reference to the filing of the document with
        the Registrar;

   (b) any reference in this Act to an article in respect of which a
        design is registered is, in the case of a design registered in
        respect of a set of articles or a set of articles and
        non‑physical products, a reference to any article of that set;

   (c) any reference in this Act to a non‑physical product in
       respect of which a design is registered is, in the case of a
       design registered in respect of a set of non‑physical
       products or a set of articles and non‑physical products, a
       reference to any non‑physical product of that set; and

       (d) any reference to the infringement of a registered design is
            to be construed as a reference to the infringement of any
            right in the design conferred by this Act.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, a device for
projecting a non‑physical product —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              10

(a) is any device that when activated projects the non‑physical
     product on a surface or into a medium (including air); and

(b) includes any product or component that is used in or with a
     device mentioned in paragraph (a) to project the
     non‑physical product on a surface or into a medium
     (including air).

                                                                                                 [29/2017]

Act binds Government
 3. Subject to Part 4, this Act binds the Government.

                                    PART 2

                     REGISTRATION OF DESIGNS

                   Division 1 — Ownership of Designs

Owner of design

 4.—(1) Subject to this section, the designer of a design is to be
treated for the purposes of this Act as the owner of the design.

 (2) Where a design is created by an employee in the course of his or
her employment, his or her employer is to be treated as the owner of
the design.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) Subsection (2) is subject to any agreement to the contrary
between the parties concerned.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (4) Where a design, or the right to apply a design to any article or
non‑physical product, becomes vested, whether by assignment,
transmission or operation of law, in any person other than the
owner, either alone or jointly with the owner, that other person or (as
the case may be) the owner and that other person, is to be treated for
the purposes of this Act as the owner of the design or as the owner of
the design in relation to that article or non‑physical product.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (5) In the case of a design generated by computer in circumstances
such that there is no human designer, the person by whom the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
11  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

arrangements necessary for the creation of the design are made is
deemed to be the designer.

                    Division 2 — Registrable Designs

New design may be registered

 5.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, a design which is new
may, upon application by the person claiming to be the owner, be
registered in respect of an article, a non‑physical product, or a set of
articles and non‑physical products, specified in the application.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) A design for which an application for registration is made is not
to be regarded as new if it is the same as a design —

       (a) registered in respect of the same or any other article,
            non‑physical product or set of articles and non‑physical
            products pursuant to a prior application; or

       (b) published in Singapore or elsewhere in respect of the same
            or any other article, non‑physical product or set of articles
            and non‑physical products before the date of the
            firstmentioned application,

or if it differs from such a design only in immaterial details or in
features which are variants commonly used in the trade.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) The Registrar may, in such cases as may be prescribed, direct
that, for the purpose of deciding whether a design is new, an
application for registration of the design is to be treated as filed on a
date earlier or later than that on which it was in fact filed.

Designs contrary to public order or morality

 6. A design is not registrable if the publication or use of it would be
contrary to public order or morality.

Computer programs, etc., not registrable

 7.—(1) No computer program or layout-design may be registered
under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              12

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), “layout-design” has the
meaning given by the Layout-Designs of Integrated Circuits
Act 1999.

(3) The Minister may make rules —

(a) to exclude from registration under this Act designs for such
     articles and non‑physical products of a primarily literary or
     artistic character as the Minister considers appropriate; and

(b) to provide that any design described in the rules must not
     be registered under this Act, or must not be so registered
     unless such conditions as may be prescribed are met.

                                                                                                 [29/2017]

Disclosure, etc., of design before certain date

 8.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), an application for registration of a
design must not be refused, and the registration of a design must not
be revoked, by reason only of —

       (a) the disclosure of the design by the owner to any other
            person in such circumstances as would make it contrary to
            good faith for that other person to use or publish the design;

       (b) the disclosure of the design in breach of good faith by any
            person other than the owner of the design;

       (c) in the case of a new or original textile design intended for
            registration, the acceptance of a first and confidential order
            for goods bearing the design; or

       (d) the communication of the design by the owner to a
            Government department or the Office or to any person
            authorised by a Government department or the Office to
            consider the merits of the design, or of anything done in
            consequence of such a communication.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), an application for registration of a
design must not be refused, and the registration of a design must not
be revoked, by reason only —

       (a) that a representation of the design, or any article to which
            the design has been applied, has been displayed, with the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
13  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    consent of the owner of the design, at an official
    international exhibition;

    (b) that after any such display as is mentioned in paragraph (a),
         and during the period of the exhibition, a representation of
         the design, or any article to which the design has been
         applied, has been displayed by any person without the
         consent of the owner; or

    (c) that a representation of the design has been published in
        consequence of any such display as is mentioned in
        paragraph (a),

if the application for registration of the design is made no later than
6 months after the opening of the exhibition.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) This section only applies to —

    (a) a disclosure mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

    (b) an acceptance mentioned in subsection (1)(c);

    (c) a communication mentioned in subsection (1)(d), or
        anything done in consequence of such a communication;

    (d) a display mentioned in subsection (2)(a) or (b); or

    (e) a publication mentioned in subsection (2)(c),

that occurs before 30 October 2017.

                                                             [29/2017]

 (4) In this section, “official international exhibition” means an
official, or officially recognised, international exhibition falling
within the terms of the Convention on International Exhibitions
signed at Paris on 22 November 1928, and any protocols to that
Convention, as revised or amended from time to time.

Disclosure of design on or after certain date

 8A.—(1) An application for registration of a design must not be
refused, and the registration of a design must not be revoked, by
reason only of any of the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              14

(a) a disclosure of the design made to a person other than the
     designer, or any successor in title of the designer, under
     conditions of confidentiality (whether express or implied);

(b) a disclosure of the design made by the designer, or any
     successor in title of the designer, during the period of
     12 months immediately before the date of filing of the
     application for registration of the design;

          (c) a disclosure of the design made by a person other than the
              designer, or any successor in title of the designer, during
              the period of 12 months immediately before the date of
              filing of the application for registration of the design, in
              consequence of information provided, or any other action
              taken, by the designer or any successor in title of the
              designer;

       (d) a disclosure of the design made during the period of
            12 months immediately before the date of filing of the
            application for registration of the design, as a consequence
            of an abuse in relation to the designer or any successor in
            title of the designer.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) This section only applies to a disclosure mentioned in
subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) that is made on or after 30 October
2017.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

Disclosure of design to be registered in respect of non‑physical
product

 8B. An application for registration of a design in respect of a
non‑physical product must not be refused, and the registration
pursuant to that application of the design in respect of the
non‑physical product must not be revoked, by reason only of a
disclosure of the design made before the date of filing of that
application, if that application is filed during the period of 12 months
immediately after 30 October 2017.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
15  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

Provisions as to artistic works

 9.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where an application is filed by or
with the consent of the owner of copyright in an artistic work for the
registration of a corresponding design, the design is not to be treated
for the purposes of this Act as being other than new by reason only of
any use previously made of the artistic work.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply if —

    (a) the previous use consisted of or included the sale, letting
         for hire, or offer or exposure for sale or hire, of —

    (i) articles or non‑physical products to which had been
        applied —

    (A) the design in question; or

    (B) a design differing from the design in question
         only in immaterial details or in features that are
         variants commonly used in the trade (called in
         this subsection an immaterial variant); or

    (ii) devices for projecting any non‑physical products
         mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i);

    (b) the design in question or an immaterial variant had been
         applied industrially in relation to those articles,
         non‑physical products or devices; and

       (c) the previous use was made by or with the consent of the
            copyright owner.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) The Minister may make rules to provide for the circumstances
in which a design is to be regarded as having been applied
industrially, in relation to articles, non‑physical products or devices
for projecting non‑physical products, for the purposes of this section.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

Subsequent registration of design in respect of other articles or
non-physical products, etc.

 10.—(1) Where the registered owner of a design registered in
respect of an article or a non‑physical product files —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              16

(a) an application for registration of the registered design in
     respect of one or more other articles or non‑physical
     products; or

(b) an application for registration of a design consisting of the
     registered design with modifications or variations not
     sufficient to alter the character or substantially to affect the
     identity of the registered design, in respect of the same or
     one or more other articles or non‑physical products,

the application must not be refused, and the registration made on the
application must not be revoked, by reason only of the previous
registration or publication of the registered design.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) The right in a design registered by virtue of subsection (1) does
not extend beyond the end of the period, and any extended period, for
which the right subsists in the original design.

 (3) Where a person files an application for registration of a design
in respect of an article or a non‑physical product and either —

(a) the design has been previously registered by another
     person in respect of some other article or non‑physical
     product; or

(b) the design to which the application relates is a design
     previously registered by another person in respect of the
     same or some other article or non‑physical product with
     modifications or variations not sufficient to alter the
     character or substantially to affect the identity of the
     registered design,

then, if at any time while the application is pending, the applicant
becomes the registered owner of the design previously registered,
subsection (1) applies as if, at the time of filing the application, the
applicant had been the registered owner of that design.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
17  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    Division 3 — Proceedings for Registration

Application for registration

 11.—(1) An application for registration of a design must be filed in
the prescribed manner with the Registrar, and is subject to the
payment of the prescribed application fee.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (2) The application must —

    (a) contain a request for the registration of a design;

    (b) state the name and address of the applicant; and

    (c) contain a clear representation of the design.

                                                             [16/2012]

 (3) Except as otherwise provided in section 16A, the date on which
the application is filed is the earliest date on which —

    (a) the fee payable under subsection (1) has been paid or is
         treated by the Registrar as paid; and

       (b) all the requirements under subsection (2) have been
            satisfied.

                                                                                                [16/2012; 29/2017]

 (4) An application may be filed under subsection (1) for the
registration of 2 or more designs, if —

    (a) the articles, non‑physical products, or sets of articles and
         non‑physical products, to which any of those designs is
         intended to be applied, as specified in the application, fall
         within the same class, or (if they fall within more than one
         class) all of the same classes, under the classification
         mentioned in section 75(1)(c), as the articles, non‑physical
         products, or sets of articles and non‑physical products, to
         which each of the other designs is intended to be applied,
         as specified in the application; and

       (b) the application complies with such other requirements as
            may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (5) Every application filed under subsection (1) for the registration
of 2 or more designs is to be treated as if a separate application had

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              18

been filed under that subsection for the registration of each of those
designs.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

Claim to priority of Convention application

 12.—(1) Subject to subsection (7), where —

       (a) a person has filed an application for the registration of a
            design in a Convention country in respect of certain
            articles, non-physical products, or sets of articles and non-
            physical products;

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

       (b) that application is the first application for the registration
            of the design to be filed in any Convention country in
            respect of those articles, non-physical products, or sets of
            articles and non-physical products (called in this section
            the first Convention application);

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

       (c) within 6 months after the date on which the first
            Convention application is filed, that person or that
            person’s successor in title applies under this Act for the
            registration of the design in respect of all or any of those
            articles, non-physical products, or sets of articles and non-
            physical products; and

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

       (d) that person or that person’s successor in title provides to
            the Registrar, upon request by the Registrar —

               (i) any prescribed information; and

              (ii) any supporting document,

       (d) in the manner and within the time specified by the
            Registrar,

that person or that person’s successor in title may, when filing the
application under this Act, claim a right of priority for the registration
of the design in respect of all or any of the articles, non-physical

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
19  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

products, or sets of articles and non-physical products for which
registration was sought in the first Convention application.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) Where any person claims a right of priority in accordance with
subsection (1) in respect of an application for the registration of a
design —

    (a) the person has priority from (and including) the date on
         which the first Convention application was filed; and

    (b) the application is to be treated, for the purposes of
         determining whether that or any other design is new, as
         filed on the date on which the first Convention application
         was filed.

 (3) Subsection (2) is not to be construed as excluding the power to
give directions under section 5(3) in relation to the application for the
registration of a design.

 (4) Despite any of the provisions of this Act, where a right of
priority is claimed in respect of an application for the registration of a
design, the application must not be refused, and the registration of the
design under this Act must not be revoked, by reason only of the fact
that the first Convention application has been published during the
period between —

    (a) the date the first Convention application was filed; and

    (b) the date the application under this Act was filed.

 (5) Any filing of an application for the registration of a design
which in a Convention country is equivalent to a regular national
filing, under its domestic legislation or an international agreement, is
to be treated as giving rise to the right of priority.

 (6) In subsection (5), “regular national filing” means a filing which
is adequate to establish the date on which the application was filed in
the Convention country, whatever may be the outcome of the
application.

 (7) Where a subsequent application for registration of a design
concerning the same subject as an earlier application is filed, whether

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              20

in the same or a different Convention country, and these are the first
2 applications concerning that subject to be filed in any Convention
country, the subsequent application is to be considered the first
Convention application if, at the date the subsequent application is
filed —

(a) the earlier application has been withdrawn, abandoned or
     refused, without having been laid open to public inspection
     and without leaving any rights outstanding; and

(b) the earlier application has not yet served as a basis for
     claiming a right of priority.

(8) To avoid doubt, where subsection (7) applies —

(a) the date on which the subsequent application was filed,
     rather than that of the earlier application, is to be
     considered the starting date of the period of priority
     under subsection (2); and

(b) the earlier application may not thereafter serve as a basis
     for claiming a right of priority.

 (9) The Minister may make rules as to the manner of claiming
priority under this section.

 (10) A right to priority arising under this section may be assigned or
otherwise transmitted, either with the application or independently,
and the reference in subsection (1) to the applicant’s “successor in
title” is to be construed accordingly.

Claim to priority of other overseas applications

 13.—(1) The Minister may by order confer on a person who has
filed an application for registration of a design in a country or
territory to which the Government has entered into a treaty,
convention, arrangement or engagement for the reciprocal
protection of registered designs, a right to priority, for the purpose
of registering the same design under this Act for some or all of the
same articles, non-physical products, or sets of articles and non-

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
21  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

physical products, for a specified period from the date of filing of that
application.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) An order under this section may make provision corresponding
to that set out in section 12 or such other provision as appears to the
Minister to be appropriate.

Withdrawal of application

 14.—(1) An applicant may withdraw his or her application for
registration of a design by filing a notice of withdrawal with the
Registrar in the prescribed manner before the date on which
preparations for publication under section 18 have been completed,
as determined by the Registrar.

 (2) Where a notice of withdrawal is filed in accordance with
subsection (1), the application is to be treated as withdrawn, and such
withdrawal is irrevocable.

Amendment of application

 15.—(1) Subject to subsection (4) and the rules mentioned in
section 74(2A), the Registrar may, on the Registrar’s own initiative or
upon request made to the Registrar in the prescribed manner by the
applicant and payment of the prescribed fee, amend an application for
registration of a design.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) An application for registration of a design must not be amended
if, as a result of the amendment, the scope of the application would be
increased by the inclusion of matter that was not in substance
disclosed in the application as filed.

 (3) The class or classes (under the classification mentioned in
section 75(1)(c)) of articles, non‑physical products, or sets of articles
and non‑physical products, to which a design is intended to be
applied, as specified in an application for registration of the design,
must not be amended if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              22

(a) the application is derived under section 11(5) from an
     application filed under section 11(1) for the registration of
     2 or more designs; and

       (b) the amendment would result in the articles, non‑physical
            products, or sets of articles and non‑physical products, to
            which any of those designs is intended to be applied, and
            the articles, non‑physical products, or sets of articles and
            non‑physical products, to which another of those designs is
            intended to be applied, falling within different classes.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (4) The Registrar is not obliged to correct on his or her own
initiative any error not due to the default of the Registrar.

 (5) Where the Registrar proposes to make any amendment on his or
her own initiative, the Registrar must give notice of the proposal to
every person who appears to the Registrar to be likely to be affected
by the amendment, and must give the person an opportunity to be
heard before making the amendment.

Examination of application

 16.—(1) The Registrar must examine an application for registration
of a design, being an application which has not been withdrawn, to
determine whether it satisfies the formal requirements.

 (2) If the Registrar determines that an application fails to comply
with the formal requirements, the Registrar must notify the applicant
and give the applicant an opportunity to correct the non-compliance
within such period as the Registrar determines.

 (3) If the non-compliance is not corrected within the period referred
to in subsection (2), the application is to be treated as withdrawn, but
the Registrar may, upon —

       (a) the filing by the applicant of a notice in the prescribed form
            requesting reinstatement of the application;

       (b) the payment of the prescribed fee; and

       (c) the compliance by the applicant with such conditions as the
            Registrar may impose,

reinstate the application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
23  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (4) Upon reinstatement of an application, any right or means of
redress lost by the applicant as a result of the withdrawal must be
restored to the applicant.

New application treated as filed on date of filing of earlier
application

 16A.—(1) Where, on examining an application for registration of a
design (called in this section the earlier application) under
section 16(1), the Registrar determines that the earlier application
fails to comply with either or both of the formal requirements of
section 11(2)(c) and (4)(a) (where applicable), the Registrar may,
when notifying the applicant of the non‑compliance under
section 16(2), invite the applicant to correct the non‑compliance by
filing one or more new applications under section 11.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) A new application must not be filed under subsection (1) if —

       (a) a notice of withdrawal has been filed under section 14 in
            relation to the earlier application;

       (b) the earlier application has been treated as withdrawn under
            section 16(3);

       (c) the earlier application has been refused under section 17; or

       (d) the earlier application has been registered under section 18.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) The Registrar must refuse any new application filed in
contravention of subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (4) Each new application filed under subsection (1) is to be treated
as filed on the date of filing of the earlier application, if all of the
following requirements are satisfied:

       (a) the new application complies with the requirements of
            section 11;

       (b) the new application is made by the applicant, or the
            successor in title of the applicant, for the earlier
            application;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              24

          (c) the new application does not include any matter that was
              not in substance disclosed in the earlier application.

                                                                                                          [29/2017]

Refusal of application

 17.—(1) The Registrar may refuse an application for registration of
a design if —

       (a) after an examination by the Registrar under section 16; and

       (b) after giving the applicant the opportunity to correct any
            non-compliance with the formal requirements,

the Registrar determines that the application does not satisfy the
formal requirements.

 (2) The Registrar may refuse an application for registration of a
design if, on the face of the application, the design is not new or is not
registrable for any other reason.

 (3) The Registrar must give notice of any refusal under this section
to the applicant.

Registration and publication

 18. Subject to sections 17 and 18A(3), if the Registrar determines
that an application for registration of a design satisfies the formal
requirements, the Registrar must as soon as practicable —

       (a) register the design by entering the prescribed particulars in
            the Register;

       (b) enter the name of the applicant, or the successor in title to
            the application, in the Register as the owner of the design;

       (c) issue a certificate of registration to the person who is the
            registered owner of the design at the time the design is
            registered; and

       (d) publish a notice of the registration and a representation of
            the design in the prescribed manner.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
25  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

Deferment of publication

 18A.—(1) An applicant may, when filing the applicant’s
application for registration of a design, request that any publication
under section 18 of the design be deferred for the prescribed period
after the date of filing of that application.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (2) A request under subsection (1) must be made in the prescribed
manner and accompanied by the prescribed fee.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (3) Despite section 18, the Registrar must defer the publication
under that section of a design which is the subject of a request under
subsection (1) for the prescribed period referred to in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (4) The Minister may make rules to provide for the deferment of the
publication under section 18 of a registered design and for matters
relating thereto.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

Only formality examination required

 19. The Registrar, in determining whether to accept an application
for registration of a design, is not required to consider or have regard
to —

       (a) the registrability of the design;

       (b) whether the applicant is entitled to any right of priority
            claimed in the application; or

       (c) whether the design is properly represented in the
            application.

Date of registration

 20. A design when registered is to be registered as of the date on
which the application for registration is filed, and that date is deemed
for the purposes of this Act to be the date of its registration.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              26

          Division 4 — Duration of Registration

Initial period of registration and extension

 21.—(1) The initial period of registration of a design is 5 years from
the date of registration of the design.

 (2) The period of registration of a design may be extended for a
second and third period of 5 years, by applying to the Registrar for an
extension, and paying the prescribed extension fee, not earlier than
the prescribed period before the date of expiry of the current period of
registration, and not later than the date of expiry of the current period
of registration.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (3) The Minister may make rules for the Registrar to inform the
registered owner of a design, before the expiry of the current period of
registration, of the imminent expiry of the registration and the manner
in which it may be extended.

 (4) If the application and payment are not made before the expiry of
the current period of registration, the registration of the design ceases
to be in force upon the expiry of that period and must be removed
from the Register.

 (5) If, during the prescribed period after the date of expiry of the
current period of registration, an application for extension is made
and the extension fee and any prescribed late fee are paid, the
registration of the design is to be treated as if it had never ceased to be
in force, and accordingly —

(a) anything done under or in relation to any rights in the
     design by or with the consent of the owner during that
     period is to be treated as valid;

(b) an act which would have constituted an infringement of the
     design if the registration had not ceased to be in force is to
     be treated as an infringement; and

          (c) an act which would have constituted use of the design for
              the services of the Government under Part 4 if the
              registration had not ceased to be in force is to be treated
              as such use.

                                                                                [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
27  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (6) The Minister may make rules to provide for the restoration of
the registration of a design which has been removed from the
Register, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

Exceptions relating to artistic works, etc.

 22.—(1) Despite section 21, where it is shown that a registered
design —

       (a) was at the time it was registered a corresponding design in
            relation to an artistic work in which copyright subsists
            under the Copyright Act 2021; and

       (b) by reason of a previous use of that work would not have
            been registrable but for section 9(1),

the period of registration of the design expires when the copyright in
that work expires, if that is earlier than the time at which it would
otherwise expire, and it may not thereafter be extended.

                                                                                                           [22/2021]

 (2) Despite section 21, the period of registration of a design
registered by virtue of section 10(1) does not extend beyond the end
of the period of registration, and any extended period of registration,
of the original registered design.

        Division 5 — Proceedings for Determination of Rights
                            in Registered Designs

Determination of rights after registration

 23.—(1) After a design is registered, any person having or claiming
an interest in the design may apply to the Court to determine —

       (a) who is the true owner of the design;

       (b) whether the design should have been registered in the name
            of the person in whose name it was registered; or

       (c) whether any right in the design should be transferred or
            granted to any other person,

and the Court is to determine the question and may make such order
as it considers appropriate to give effect to the determination.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                               28

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an order referred to in that
subsection may contain one or more of the following directions:

(a) that the name of the applicant be entered in the Register as
     the owner or one of the owners of the design (whether or
     not to the exclusion of any other person);

(b) that the transaction by virtue of which that person has
     acquired any right in the design be registered;

          (c) that a licence for the use of the design be granted;

(d) that the registered owner of the design or any person
     having any right in the design carry out such act as the
     Court considers appropriate to give effect to any directions
     in the order.

 (3) If any person to whom a direction referred to in
subsection (2)(d) was given fails to comply with the direction
within 14 days after the date of the order, the Court may, on
application made to it by any person in whose favour or on whose
application the order was made, authorise the second-mentioned
person to do that thing on behalf of the person to whom the direction
was given.

 (4) If an application under this section is made after the end of the
period of 2 years from the date of issue of the certificate of
registration referred to in section 18(c) in respect of the design in
question, no order is to be made under subsection (1) transferring any
right in the design from the registered owner to any other person on
the ground that the registered owner was not entitled to be registered
as the owner, unless it is shown that the registered owner knew at the
time of the registration or of the transfer of the design to the registered
owner (as the case may be) that the registered owner was not entitled
to be registered as the owner.

 (5) The Court is not to make any order under subsection (1) unless
notice of the application has first been given to —

(a) the registered owner of the design; and

(b) each person registered as having a right in the registered
     design who is not a party to the application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
29  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

Effect of order made under section 23 on third party

 24.—(1) Where an order is made under section 23(1) that a
registered design be transferred from any person or persons (called in
this section the old owner or owners) to one or more persons (whether
or not including an old owner), then, except in a case falling within
subsection (2), any licences or other rights granted or created by the
old owner or owners, subject to section 34 and to the provisions of the
order, continue in force and are to be treated as granted by the person
or persons to whom the design is ordered to be transferred (called in
this section the new owner or owners).

 (2) Where an order is so made that a registered design must be
transferred from the old owner or owners to one or more persons none
of whom was an old owner (on the ground that the design was
registered in the name of a person not entitled to be registered as an
owner), any licences or other rights in the design will, subject to the
provisions of the order and subsection (3), lapse on the registration of
that person or those persons as the new owner or owners of the
design.

 (3) Where an order referred to in subsection (2) is made and, before
particulars of the reference resulting in the making of the order are
entered in the Register, the old owner or owners or a licensee —

    (a) carried out in good faith an act which would have
         constituted an infringement of the design if particulars of
         the reference had been registered at the time the act was
         done; or

    (b) made in good faith effective and serious preparations to
         carry out such an act,

the old owner or owners or the licensee are, on making a request to the
new owner or owners within the prescribed period, entitled to be
granted a licence (but not an exclusive licence) to continue to do the
act or (as the case may be) to do the act.

 (4) A licence under subsection (3) must be for a reasonable period
and subject to reasonable terms.

 (5) The new owner or owners of the registered design or any person
claiming that the person is entitled to be granted a licence under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              30

subsection (3) may apply to the Court for a determination of
whether —

(a) that person is so entitled; or

(b) the period or terms of any such licence granted are
     reasonable.

 (6) The Court is to make the determination under subsection (5) and
may —

(a) order the grant of a licence on such terms and for such
     period as it considers reasonable; or

(b) vary the period or terms of the licence.

Licences granted by order of Court

 25. Any order made under section 23(1) or 24(6) for the grant of a
licence, without affecting any other method of enforcement, has
effect as if it were a deed, executed by the registered owner of the
registered design and all other necessary parties, granting a licence in
accordance with the order.

       Division 6 — Surrender and Revocation of Registration

Surrender of registration

 26.—(1) The registration of a design may be surrendered by the
registered owner in respect of all or any of the articles, non-physical
products, or sets of articles and non-physical products for which the
design is registered.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]
                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) The Minister may make rules —

       (a) as to the manner and effect of a surrender; and

       (b) for protecting the interest of other persons having a right in
            the design.

Revocation of registration

 27.—(1) At any time after a design has been registered, any
interested person may apply to the Registrar or the Court for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
31  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

revocation of the registration of the design on the ground that the
design was not, at the date of its registration, new, or on any other
ground on which the Registrar could have refused to register the
design; and the Registrar may make such order on the application as
the Registrar thinks fit.

 (2) At any time after a design has been registered, any interested
person may apply to the Registrar or the Court for the revocation of
the registration on the ground that —

    (a) the design was at the time it was registered a corresponding
         design in relation to an artistic work in which copyright
         subsisted; and

    (b) the right in the registered design has expired in accordance
         with section 22(1),

and the Registrar may make such order on the application as the
Registrar thinks fit.

 (3) If proceedings concerning a design are pending in the Court, an
application for the revocation of its registration must be made to the
Court.

 (4) If an application for the revocation of the registration of a design
is made to the Registrar, the Registrar may at any time refer the
application to the Court.

 (5) An application to the Registrar for the revocation of the
registration of a design must be made in the prescribed manner and be
accompanied by the prescribed fee.

(6) A revocation takes effect —

    (a) in the case of a revocation under subsection (1), from the
         date of registration; and

    (b) in the case of a revocation under subsection (2), from the
         date on which the right in the registered design expired.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for revocation
proceedings before the Registrar and for matters relating thereto.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              32

          Division 7 — Miscellaneous

Right to information

 28.—(1) After the registration of a design and upon the filing of a
written request by any person in the prescribed manner and the
payment of the prescribed fee, the Registrar must —

(a) give the person making the request such information; and

(b) permit that person to inspect such documents,

relating to the application for registration of the design (including any
representation or sample of the design) as may be specified in the
request, subject, however, to such conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) Rules may be made empowering the Registrar to refuse any
request in respect of such information or documents as may be
prescribed.

 (3) Until notice of registration of a design is published under
section 18, any information or documents constituting or relating to
the application for registration must not, without the consent of the
owner or the applicant (as the case may be), be published or
communicated to any person by the Registrar.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not prevent the Registrar from publishing or
communicating to others any prescribed information relating to an
application for registration of a design.

 (5) Where a person is notified that an application for registration of
a design has been made and that the applicant will, if the design is
registered, bring proceedings against that person in the event of that
person doing an act specified in the notification, that person may
make a request under subsection (1).

 (6) The Registrar may grant the request under subsection (1)
without the consent of the applicant, even though the design has not
been registered.

Provisions for secrecy of certain designs

 29.—(1) Where an application for registration of a design has been
made and it appears to the Registrar that the design is one of a class
notified to the Registrar by the Minister as relevant for defence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
33  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

purposes, the Registrar must give directions for prohibiting or
restricting —

    (a) the publication of information with respect to the design; or

    (b) the communication of such information to any person or
         class of persons specified in the directions.

 (2) Rules may be made for securing that where such directions are
given —

    (a) the representation of the design; and

    (b) any evidence filed in support of the application for
         registration,

must not be open to public inspection in the Registry during the
continuance in force of the directions.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with a direction of the Registrar
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

(4) Where such directions are in force, the application —

    (a) must be held in abeyance after the formal requirements
         referred to in section 16 have been satisfied; and

    (b) despite section 18, must not proceed to be processed in
         accordance with that section until the directions are
         revoked under subsection (5)(d).

 (5) Where the Registrar gives such directions, the Registrar must
give notice of the application and of the directions to the Minister, and
thereupon the following provisions have effect:

    (a) the Minister must consider whether the publication of the
         design would be prejudicial to the defence of Singapore;

    (b) the Minister may at any time inspect the representation of
         the design, or any evidence referred to in subsection (2)(b);

    (c) if, upon the consideration of the design at any time, it
        appears to the Minister that the publication of the design
        would not, or would no longer, be prejudicial to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.     Registered Designs Act 2000                           34

          defence of Singapore, notice may be given to the Registrar
          to that effect;

(d) on the receipt of such notice, the Registrar must revoke the
     directions and may, subject to such conditions (if any) as
     the Registrar thinks fit, extend the time for doing anything
     required or authorised to be done by or under this Act in
     connection with the application for registration, whether or
     not that time has previously expired.

(6) Where —

(a) directions given under this section in relation to an
     application for registration of a design are revoked;

(b) the design is registered; and

          (c) it appears to the Minister that the applicant has suffered
              hardship while the directions were in force,

the Minister may make such payment (if any) by way of
compensation to the applicant as appears to the Minister to be
reasonable having regard to all relevant circumstances.

 (7) Nothing in this section prevents the disclosure of information
concerning a design to a Government department or authority for the
purpose of obtaining advice as to whether the directions under this
section with respect to an application for registration of that design
should be made, amended or revoked.

                                    PART 3
                 RIGHTS IN REGISTERED DESIGNS
  Division 1 — Rights of Registered Owner of Registered Design
Rights conferred by registration
 30.—(1) The registration of a design under this Act gives to the
registered owner the following exclusive rights:
       (a) to make in Singapore, or import into Singapore, for sale or
            hire, or for use for the purpose of trade or business —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
35  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    (i) any article in respect of which the design is
        registered and to which that design, or a design not
        substantially different from that design, has been
        applied; or

    (ii) any device for projecting a non‑physical product
         (being a non‑physical product in respect of which the
         design is registered and to which that design, or a
         design not substantially different from that design,
         has been applied);

    (b) to sell, hire, or offer or expose for sale or hire, in
         Singapore —

    (i) any article or non‑physical product in respect of
        which the design is registered and to which that
        design, or a design not substantially different from
        that design, has been applied; or

              (ii) any device for projecting a non‑physical product
                   mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i).

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, the right in a registered design is
infringed by any person who, without the consent of the registered
owner and while the registration is in force —

    (a) does anything which by virtue of subsection (1) is the
         exclusive right of the registered owner;

    (b) makes anything for enabling any article referred to in
         subsection (1) to be made in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (c) does anything in relation to a kit that would constitute an
        infringement of the design if it had been done in relation to
        the assembled article; or

    (d) makes anything for enabling a kit to be made or assembled,
         in Singapore or elsewhere, if the assembled article would
         be an article referred to in subsection (1).

 (3) In subsection (2), “kit” means a complete or substantially
complete set of components intended to be assembled into an article.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              36

 (4) In the application of subsection (2) to a registered design of
which there is more than one registered owner, the reference to the
registered owner is to be construed —

(a) in relation to any act, as a reference to the registered owner
     or those registered owners who is or are entitled to do that
     act by virtue of section 33 or any agreement; and

(b) in relation to any consent, as a reference to the registered
     owner or those registered owners who is or are the proper
     person or persons to give the consent by virtue of
     section 33 or any agreement.

 (5) For the purposes of this Act, the right in a registered design is
not infringed by —

(a) the doing of any act for a private non-commercial purpose;
     or

(b) the doing of any act for the purpose of evaluation, analysis,
     research or teaching.

 (6) The right in a registered design is not infringed by the
reproduction of a feature of the design which, by virtue of
paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of “design” in section 2(1), is
left out of account in determining whether the design is registrable.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (7) The right in a registered design is not infringed by —

(a) the import, sale, hire, or offer or exposure for sale or hire
     of —

          (i) any article to which the design has been applied, if
              the article has been placed on the market, whether in
              Singapore or elsewhere, by or with the consent
              (conditional or otherwise) of the registered owner; or

          (ii) any device for projecting a non‑physical product
               (being a non‑physical product to which the design
               has been applied), if the device has been placed on
               the market, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, by or
               with the consent (conditional or otherwise) of the
               registered owner; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
37  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    (b) the sale, hire, or offer or exposure for sale or hire of any
         non‑physical product to which the design has been applied,
         if the non‑physical product has been placed on the market,
         whether in Singapore or elsewhere, by or with the consent
         (conditional or otherwise) of the registered owner.

                                                                                                     [29/2017]

Registration subject to disclaimer

 30A.—(1) An applicant for registration of a design, or the
registered owner of a registered design, may disclaim any right in
relation to a specified feature of the design.

 (2) Where the registration of a design is subject to a disclaimer, the
rights given by section 30 are restricted accordingly.

 (2A) Where an applicant for registration of a design, or the
registered owner of a registered design, disclaimed any right in
relation to a specified feature of the design —

       (a) at any time before 26 May 2022; and

       (b) in any application, request or other document that
            otherwise complied with the requirements of this Act
            and the rules made under this Act,

then —

       (c) subsection (1) applies in relation to that disclaimer as if
            that subsection were in force on the date of the making of
            the disclaimer; and

       (d) subsection (2) applies in relation to the registration of that
            design and (if the disclaimer was to apply beginning on a
            date before 26 May 2022) is taken to have always applied
            in relation to the registration beginning on the date the
            disclaimer was to begin to apply.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (2B) However, nothing in subsection (2A) applies to, or may be
construed to affect —

       (a) any decision or judgment issued by any court given before
            12 September 2022 in relation to that design; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              38

       (b) any proceedings before any court commenced before
            12 September 2022 in relation to that design.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (3) The Minister may make rules under section 75 as to the
publication and entry in the Register of a disclaimer.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Rights of third parties to continue use of registered designs

 31.—(1) A person who, before the date of registration of a
design —

       (a) does in good faith in Singapore an act which would have
            constituted an infringement of the design if the registration
            had been in force at the time the act is done; or

       (b) makes in good faith effective and serious preparations to
            do such an act in Singapore,

has the right to continue to do the act or (as the case may be) to do the
act.

 (2) If the act was done, or the preparations were made, in the course
of a business, the person entitled to the right conferred by
subsection (1) may —

       (a) authorise the doing of that act by any of the person’s
            partners for the time being in that business; and

       (b) assign that right, or transmit it on death (or in the case of a
            body corporate on its dissolution), to any person who
            acquires that part of the business in the course of which the
            act was done or the preparations were made.

 (3) The right conferred by subsection (2) does not include a right to
grant a licence to any person to do an act referred to in subsection (1).

 (4) Where an article, a non‑physical product, or a device for
projecting a non‑physical product, is disposed of to another person in
exercise of a right conferred by subsection (1), that other person, and
any person claiming through that other person, may deal with the
article, non‑physical product or device in the same way as if the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
39  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

article, non‑physical product or device had been disposed of by the
owner of the design concerned.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

                    Division 2 — Registered Design as
                              Object of Property

Nature of registered design

 32.—(1) A registered design or any right in it is personal property
and may be assigned or transmitted in the same way as other personal
property.

 (2) A registered design or any right in it may be vested by an assent
of personal representatives.

 (3) A licence may be granted for the use of a registered design and,
to the extent that the licence so provides, a sub‑licence may be
granted under any such licence.

 (4) Any such licence or sub‑licence —

       (a) may be assigned or transmitted in the same way as personal
            property; and

       (b) may be vested by an assent of personal representatives.

 (5) Subsections (1) to (4) have effect subject to this Act.

 (6) An assignment of a design or a right therein, or an assent
relating to a registered design or a right therein, is not effective unless
it is in writing and signed by or on behalf of the assignor or (as the
case may be) a personal representative.

 (7) Subsection (6) may be satisfied in a case where the assignor or
personal representative is a body corporate by the affixing of its seal.

 (8) Subsections (6) and (7) apply to an assignment by way of
security as they apply to any other assignment.

 (9) A registered design or any right in it may be the subject of a
charge in the same way as other personal or movable property.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (10) An assignment of a registered design or any right in it, or an
exclusive licence in relation to a registered design, may confer on the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              40

assignee or licensee the right of the assignor or licensor to bring
proceedings under section 23 or 36.

Co-ownership of registered design

 33.—(1) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, where there is
more than one registered owner of a registered design, each of them is
entitled to an equal undivided share in the rights in the design.

 (2) Subject to this section and to any agreement to the contrary,
where there is more than one registered owner of a registered design,
each of them is entitled, by himself, herself or itself or the registered
owner’s agent, to do in relation to the design and for the registered
owner’s own benefit and without the consent of, or the need to
account to, the other or others, an act which would otherwise amount
to an infringement of the design.

 (3) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, where there is more
than one registered owner of a registered design, a registered owner
must not, without the consent of each of the others —

       (a) grant a licence for the use of the design;

       (b) assign any interest in the design; or

       (c) charge his, her or its share in the rights in the design.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (4) Nothing in subsection (1) or (2) affects the mutual rights or
obligations of trustees or personal representatives of a deceased
person, or their rights or obligations as such.

Registration of transactions affecting registered design

 34.—(1) On application being made to the Registrar by —

       (a) a person claiming to be entitled to any interest in a
            registered design by virtue of a registrable transaction; or

       (b) any other person claiming to be affected by such a
            transaction,

the prescribed particulars of the transaction must be entered in the
Register.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
41  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

(2) The following are registrable transactions under subsection (1):

    (a) an assignment of a registered design or any right in it;

    (b) the grant of a licence or sub‑licence for the use of a
         registered design;

    (c) the grant of any security interest (whether fixed or floating)
        over a registered design or any right in it;

    (d) the making by personal representatives of an assent in
         relation to a registered design or any right in it;

    (e) an order of the Court or other competent authority
        transferring a registered design or any right in it.

 (3) Until an application has been made for registration of the
prescribed particulars of a registrable transaction, the transaction is
ineffective as against a person acquiring a conflicting interest in the
registered design in ignorance of it.

 (4) Despite any provision of this Act, a person who becomes the
registered owner or licensee of a registered design by virtue of a
registrable transaction is not entitled to —

    (a) damages or account of profits in respect of any
         infringement of the registered design occurring after the
         date of the transaction and before the date of application
         for registration of the prescribed particulars of the
         transaction; or

    (b) compensation under section 46, pursuant to terms as
         agreed between the Government and the registered owner,
         or as determined by the court, in respect of the use of the
         design for the services of the Government occurring after
         the date of the transaction and before the date of
         application for registration of the prescribed particulars
         of the transaction.

 (5) Provision may be made by rules as to the amendment, alteration
or removal from the Register of any particulars in the Register
relating to any registrable transaction.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              42

Rights in application for registration

 35.—(1) Sections 32, 33 and 34 apply, with the necessary
modifications, in relation to an application for registration of a
design as they apply in relation to a registered design.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the reference in section 34 to
the making of an application for registration of particulars is to be
construed as a reference to the giving of a written notice to the
Registrar in the prescribed manner of particulars of the relevant
transaction, instrument or event relating to the application for
registration.

                 Division 3 — Infringement Proceedings

Infringement proceedings

 36.—(1) An infringement of a registered design is actionable by the
registered owner.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the relief the Court may
grant in infringement proceedings includes —

       (a) an injunction (subject to such terms (if any) as the Court
            thinks fit); and

       (b) either damages or an account of profits.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no proceedings may be
taken for an infringement of a registered design committed before the
date on which the certificate of registration of the design is issued
under section 18.

Infringement proceedings by co-owner

 37.—(1) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, where there is
more than one registered owner of a registered design, each of them is
entitled to bring proceedings for an infringement of the design.

 (2) In proceedings taken by a registered owner by virtue of this
section, the other registered owner or owners must be made a party or
parties to the proceedings, but any other registered owner if made a
defendant is not liable for any costs or expenses unless that registered
owner takes part in the proceedings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
43  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

Infringement proceedings by exclusive licensee

 38.—(1) The holder of an exclusive licence under a registered
design has the same right as the registered owner to bring proceedings
for an infringement of the design committed after the date of the grant
of the licence, and references to the registered owner in the provisions
of this Act relating to infringement are to be construed accordingly.

 (2) In awarding damages in any infringement proceedings taken by
an exclusive licensee, the Court may take into consideration only the
losses suffered or likely to be suffered by the exclusive licensee as a
result of the infringement.

 (3) In ordering an account of profits in any infringement
proceedings taken by an exclusive licensee, the Court may take
into consideration only the profits derived from the infringement
which are attributable to the infringement of the exclusive licensee’s
rights.

 (4) In any infringement proceedings taken by an exclusive licensee,
the registered owner need not be made a party to the proceedings, but
if the registered owner is made a defendant the registered owner is not
liable for any costs or expenses unless the registered owner takes part
in the proceedings.

General restriction on recovery of damages or profits

 39.—(1) In infringement proceedings, the Court must not award
damages, nor make an order for an account of profits, against a
defendant who proves that at the date of the infringement the
defendant was not aware, and had no reasonable grounds for
believing, that the design in question was registered.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person is not to be taken to
have been aware, or to have had reasonable grounds for believing,
that the design was registered by reason only of the application to an
article, a non‑physical product, or a device for projecting a
non‑physical product, or to any printed matter accompanying an
article, a non‑physical product, or a device for projecting a
non‑physical product, of the word “registered”, or any word or
words or abbreviation expressing or implying that the design has been

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              44

registered, unless the registration number of the design accompanied
the word or words or abbreviation.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

Order for delivery up

 40.—(1) Where the defendant to proceedings for infringement of a
registered design has in the defendant’s possession —

       (a) any infringing article in relation to that design;

       (b) anything predominantly used for the making of infringing
            articles, which the defendant knows or has reason to
            believe has been or is to be used to make infringing
            articles; or

       (c) any infringing device in relation to that design,

the Court may, in addition to any relief granted under section 36,
order the article, thing or infringing device to be delivered to the
claimant.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) An order is not to be made under this section unless the Court
also makes, or it appears to the Court that there are grounds for
making, an order under section 41.

 (3) A person to whom any article, thing or infringing device is
delivered up pursuant to an order made under this section must, if an
order under section 41 is not made, retain them pending the making of
an order, or the decision not to make an order, under that section.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (4) In this section and section 41, an article is an “infringing article”
in relation to a registered design if the design or a design not
substantially different from it has been applied to the article and —

       (a) the application of the design to the article was an
            infringement of the design;

       (b) the article is imported into Singapore in such a way as to
            infringe the design; or

       (c) the article is sold, let for hire, or offered or exposed for sale
            or hire in Singapore in such a way as to infringe the design.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
45  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (5) In this section and section 41, an infringing device in relation to
a registered design is a device for projecting a non‑physical product
where —

    (a) the design, or a design not substantially different from that
         design, has been applied to the non‑physical product; and

    (b) either or both of the following apply:

    (i) the device is made in Singapore or imported into
        Singapore in such a way as to infringe the design;

    (ii) the device is sold, let for hire, or offered or exposed
         for sale or hire in Singapore in such a way as to
         infringe the design.

                                                                                           [29/2017]

Order for disposal

 41.—(1) Where any infringing article or thing, or any infringing
device, has been delivered up pursuant to an order made under
section 40, an application may be made to the Court —

       (a) for an order that it be destroyed or forfeited to such person
            as the Court thinks fit; or

       (b) for a decision that no such order should be made.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) In deciding what order (if any) should be made, the Court must
have regard to —

       (a) whether other remedies available in proceedings for
            infringement would be adequate to compensate the
            claimant and protect the claimant’s interest; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

       (b) the need to ensure that no infringing article or thing, and no
            infringing device, is disposed of in a manner that would
            adversely affect the claimant.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              46

 (3) The Court is to issue directions as to service of notice on persons
having an interest in the article, thing or infringing device.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (4) Any person having an interest in the article, thing or infringing
device is entitled —

(a) to appear in proceedings for an order under this section,
     whether or not that person is served with notice; and

       (b) to appeal against any order made, whether or not that
            person appears in the proceedings.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (5) An order made under this section does not take effect until the
end of the period within which notice of an appeal may be given or, if
before the end of that period notice of appeal is duly given, until the
final determination or abandonment of the proceedings on appeal.

 (6) Where there is more than one person interested in the article,
thing or infringing device, the Court may —

(a) direct that the article, thing or infringing device be sold, or
     otherwise dealt with, and the proceeds divided; and

       (b) make any other order as the Court thinks just.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (7) If the Court decides that no order should be made under this
section, the person in whose possession the article, thing or infringing
device was before being delivered up is entitled to its return.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

Declaration as to non-infringement

 42. A declaration that an act does not, or a proposed act would not,
constitute an infringement of a registered design may be made by the
Court in any proceedings between the person doing or proposing to
do the act and the registered owner, even though no assertion to the
contrary has been made by the registered owner, if it is shown that —

       (a) that person has applied in writing to the registered owner
            for a written acknowledgment to the effect of the
            declaration claimed, and has furnished the registered
            owner with full particulars in writing of the act in
            question; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
47  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    (b) the registered owner has refused or failed to give any such
         acknowledgment.

Certificate of contested validity of registration

 43.—(1) If in any proceedings before the Registrar or the Court the
validity of the registration of a design is contested, and the Registrar
or the Court finds that the registration of the design is valid, the
Registrar or the Court may certify the finding and the fact that the
validity of the registration was so contested.

                                                                                                           [23/2019]

 (2) Where a certificate is given under subsection (1) and in
subsequent proceedings for infringement of the design or for
revocation of the registration of the design before the Registrar or
the Court —

       (a) the validity of the registration is again questioned; and

       (b) the registered owner obtains a final order or judgment in
            the registered owner’s favour relying on the validity of the
            registration as found in the earlier proceedings,

the registered owner is entitled to the registered owner’s costs as
between solicitor and client unless the Registrar or the Court directs
otherwise.

                                                                                                           [23/2019]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not extend to the costs of an appeal in any
such proceedings.

Remedy for groundless threats of infringement proceedings

 44.—(1) Where a person (whether or not entitled to or interested in
a registered design or an application for registration of a design)
threatens any other person with proceedings for infringement of a
registered design, any person aggrieved thereby may bring
proceedings against the person making the threats for relief under
this section.

 (2) The relief which may be applied for are —

       (a) a declaration that the threats are unjustifiable;

       (b) an injunction against the continuance of the threats; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              48

          (c) damages in respect of any loss the person has sustained by
              the threats,

and the claimant is entitled to such relief unless —

(d) the defendant proves that the acts in respect of which the
     proceedings were threatened constitute, or if done would
     constitute, an infringement of the design; and

       (e) the claimant fails to show that the registration of the design
            concerned is invalid.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) Proceedings may not be brought under this section as regards a
threat to bring proceedings for an infringement alleged to consist of
the making or importing of anything.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a notification that a design is
registered does not of itself constitute a threat of proceedings within
the meaning of this section.

 (5) Nothing in this section renders an advocate and solicitor liable
to an action under this section in respect of an act done by him or her
in his or her professional capacity on behalf of a client.

                                    PART 4

        GOVERNMENT USE OF REGISTERED DESIGNS

Government use of registered designs

 45.—(1) Despite any of the provisions of this Act, the Government
and any person authorised in writing by the Government may use any
registered design for the services of the Government in accordance
with section 46.

 (2) The authority of the Government under subsection (1) may
be —

       (a) given either before or after the registration of the design;

       (b) given either before or after the acts in respect of which the
            authority is given are done; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
49  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    (c) given to any person whether or not the person is authorised,
        directly or indirectly, by the registered owner to use the
        design.

(3) Without limiting subsection (1), any use of the design for —

    (a) the supply to the government of any country or territory
         outside Singapore, pursuant to any agreement or
         arrangement between the Government and the
         government of that country, of articles, non‑physical
         products, or devices for projecting non‑physical
         products, required —

    (i) for the defence of that country; or

    (ii) for the defence of any other country whose
         government is party to any agreement or
         arrangement with the Government in respect of
         defence matters; or

    (b) the supply to the United Nations, or to the government of
         any country belonging to that organisation, of articles,
         non‑physical products, or devices for projecting
         non‑physical products, required for any armed forces
         operating pursuant to a resolution of that organisation or
         any organ of that organisation,

is deemed to be a use of the design for the services of the
Government; and the power of the Government or a person
authorised by the Government to use the design includes power —

    (c) to sell the articles, non‑physical products, or devices for
        projecting non‑physical products, to the government or to
        that organisation pursuant to the agreement or
        arrangement; and

       (d) to sell to any person any articles, non‑physical products, or
            devices for projecting non‑physical products, originally
            intended for the services of the Government which are no
            longer required for the purpose for which they were made.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (4) Without limiting subsection (1), any use of a design for any
purpose which appears to the Government necessary or expedient —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              50

(a) to avoid prejudice to the security or defence of Singapore;

(b) to assist in the exercise of powers and the implementation
     of civil defence measures during a state of emergency or
     state of civil defence emergency under the Civil Defence
     Act 1986; or

          (c) for public non-commercial use,

is deemed to be a use of the design for the services of the
Government.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (5) The purchaser of any articles, non‑physical products, or devices
for projecting non‑physical products, sold in the exercise of powers
conferred by subsection (1), and any person claiming through the
purchaser, has the power to deal with the articles, non‑physical
products, or devices for projecting non‑physical products, as if the
rights in the registered design were held on behalf of the Government.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (6) Despite any provision in any other written law, the reproduction
or publication of any model or document in connection with any use
of a design made by virtue of subsection (1) is deemed not to
constitute an infringement of any copyright subsisting in the
document by virtue of the Copyright Act 2021 or any right
subsisting in a layout-design by virtue of the Layout‑Designs of
Integrated Circuits Act 1999.

                                                                                                           [22/2021]

Terms of Government use

 46.—(1) If and so far as the design has, before the date of its
registration, been applied by or on behalf of the Government
otherwise than in consequence of the communication of the design,
directly or indirectly, by the registered owner or any person from
whom the registered owner derives title, any use of the design by
virtue of section 45 may be made free of any royalty or other payment
to the registered owner.

 (2) If and so far as the design has not been so applied, any use of the
design made by virtue of section 45 at any time after the date of its

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
51  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

registration, or in consequence of any communication referred to in
subsection (1), must be made on such terms —

    (a) as may be agreed upon, either before or after the use,
         between the Government and the registered owner; or

    (b) in default of such agreement, as may be determined by the
         Court on a reference under section 48.

 (3) Where a design has been made use of under this section, the
Government, unless it appears to the Government that it would be
contrary to the public interest to do so, must inform the registered
owner as soon as possible of the fact and furnish the registered owner
with such information as to the use made of the design as the
registered owner from time to time reasonably requires.

Provisions of licence, etc., to be ineffective

 47. In relation to any use of a registered design, or a design in
respect of which an application for registration is pending, made for
the services of the Government —

       (a) by the Government or a person authorised by the
            Government under section 45; or

       (b) by the registered owner or applicant for registration to the
            order of the Government,

the provisions of any licence, assignment or agreement made,
whether before, on or after 13 November 2000, between —

       (c) the registered owner or applicant for registration or any
            person who derives title from the registered owner or
            applicant or from whom the registered owner or applicant
            derives title; and

       (d) a person other than the Government,

shall be of no effect so far as those provisions —

       (e) restrict or regulate the use of the design or any model,
            document or information relating to it; or

        (f) provide for the making of payments in respect of, or
            calculated by reference to, such use.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              52

References of disputes to Court

48.—(1) Any dispute as to —

(a) the exercise by the Government, or a person authorised by
     the Government, of the powers conferred by section 45;

(b) the terms for the use of a design for the services of the
     Government; or

          (c) the right of any person to receive any part of a payment
              pursuant to terms as agreed between the Government and
              the registered owner under section 46(2),

may be referred to the Court by either party to the dispute.

 (2) In any proceedings under this section to which the Government
is a party, the Government may —

(a) if the registered owner is a party to the proceedings, apply
     for revocation of the registration of the design upon any
     ground upon which the registration may be revoked under
     this Act; or

(b) in any case, put in issue the validity of the registration of
     the design without applying for its revocation.

 (3) In determining under this section any dispute between the
Government and any person as to the terms for the use of a design for
the services of the Government, the Court is to have regard to any
benefit or compensation which that person or any person from whom
that person derives title may have received, or may be entitled to
receive, directly or indirectly, from the Government in respect of the
design.

 (4) One of 2 or more registered owners of a registered design may,
without the concurrence of the others, refer a dispute to the Court
under this section, but must not do so unless the others are made
parties to the proceedings; but any of the others who has been made a
defendant is not liable for any costs or expenses unless the defendant
takes part in the proceedings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
53  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    PART 5

    ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER SUPPLEMENTARY
                              PROVISIONS

    Division 1 — Registrar

Registrar of Designs and other officers

 49.—(1) There is to be a Registrar of Designs who has control of
the Registry of Designs.

 (2) There are to be one or more Deputy Registrars of Designs who,
subject to the control of the Registrar, have all the powers and
functions of the Registrar under this Act, other than the powers of the
Registrar under section 50.

(3) There are to be one or more Assistant Registrars of Designs.

 (4) The Registrar and all the other officers under this section are to
be appointed by the Minister.

Delegation by Registrar

 50.—(1) The Registrar may, in relation to a particular matter or
class of matters, by writing under the Registrar’s hand, delegate all or
any of the Registrar’s powers or functions under this Act (except this
power of delegation) to an Assistant Registrar of Designs, any public
officer, or any person with the relevant qualifications for or
experience in the matter or class of matters, so that the delegated
powers and functions may be exercised by the delegate with respect
to the matter or class of matters specified in the instrument of
delegation.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (2) A delegation under this section is revocable at will and no
delegation prevents the exercise of a power or function by the
Registrar or by any Deputy Registrar of Designs.

 (3) A person with the relevant qualifications or experience referred
to in subsection (1) is, when exercising the delegated powers and
functions, deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal
Code 1871.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.             Registered Designs Act 2000                   54

Registry of Designs

 51. For the purposes of this Act, there is to be an office known as
the Registry of Designs.

Seal of Registry

 52. There is to be a seal of the Registry and impressions of the seal
are to be judicially noticed.

                           Division 2 — Register

Register of Designs

 53.—(1) The Registrar must maintain a register to be known as the
Register of Designs.

 (2) There must be entered in the Register in accordance with this
Act —

       (a) particulars of registered designs, including the dates of
            registration;

       (b) the names of registered owners;

       (c) particulars of transactions affecting rights in registered
            designs and applications for registration of designs; and

       (d) such other matters as the Registrar may think fit.

 (3) No notice of any implied or constructive trust may be entered in
the Register, and the Registrar is not affected by any such notice.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (4) A notice of an express trust or of the beneficiary of an express
trust, or both, may be entered in the Register; but —

       (a) the Registrar is not affected by any such notice in the
            Register; and

       (b) to avoid doubt, a failure to enter such notice in the Register
            does not affect any rights or duties under the trust.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (5) The Register may be kept in whole or in part using a computer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
55  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (6) Any record of a particular or other matter made by using a
computer for the purpose of keeping the Register is taken to be an
entry in the Register.

Rectification of Register

 54.—(1) The Court may, on the application of any person
aggrieved, order the Register to be rectified by the making, or the
variation or deletion, of any entry therein.

 (2) In proceedings under this section, the Court may determine any
question which may be necessary or expedient to decide in
connection with the rectification of the Register.

 (3) The Registrar must, on receipt of the notice of an order of the
Court to rectify the Register, rectify the Register accordingly.

 (4) A rectification of the Register under this section has effect as
follows:

       (a) an entry made has effect from the date on which it should
            have been made;

       (b) an entry varied has effect as if it had originally been made
            in its varied form;

       (c) an entry deleted is deemed never to have had effect,

unless, in any case, the Court directs otherwise.

Inspection of and extract from Register

 55.—(1) The Register must be available at the Registry for
inspection by any person during the hours when the Registry is
open for business.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (2) If the Register, or any part of the Register, is kept by using a
computer, subsection (1) is satisfied if a person who wants to inspect
the Register or that part of the Register is given access to a computer
terminal from which the person can read on a screen, or obtain a
printed copy of, the particulars or other matters recorded in the
Register or that part of the Register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              56

 (3) Any person who applies for a certified copy of an entry in the
Register or a certified extract from the Register is entitled to obtain
such copy or extract on payment of the prescribed fee.

 (4) In relation to any portion of the Register kept otherwise than in
documentary form, the right to a copy or an extract conferred by
subsection (3) is a right to a copy or an extract in a form in which it
can be taken away.

 (5) In this section, “certified copy” and “certified extract” mean a
copy and an extract certified by the Registrar.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

                    Division 3 — Powers of Registrar

Costs in proceedings before Registrar

 56.—(1) The Registrar may, in proceedings before the Registrar
under this Act, by order award to any party such costs as the Registrar
may consider reasonable and direct how and by what parties they are
to be paid.

 (2) The rules may provide for the assessment of the costs, or any
part thereof, by the Registrar.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) A party desirous to obtain costs or to have the costs assessed
must apply to the Registrar in accordance with the rules.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) If a party is ordered to pay the costs of another party, the costs
may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due by
the first party to the other party.

Correction of Register

 57.—(1) The Registrar may, in accordance with the provisions of
this section and the rules mentioned in section 74(2A), correct any
clerical error in the Register.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) A correction may be made under this section either upon a
request in writing made by any person interested, or on the
Registrar’s own initiative.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
57  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (3) A request referred to in subsection (2) must be made in the
prescribed form and be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (4) The Registrar is not obliged to correct on his or her own
initiative any error not due to the default of the Registrar.

 (5) Where the Registrar proposes to make any correction on his or
her own initiative, the Registrar must give notice of the proposal to
every person who appears to the Registrar to be likely to be affected
by the correction, and must give the person an opportunity to be heard
before making the correction.

Powers of Registrar

 58. The Registrar may, for the purposes of this Act —

       (a) summon witnesses;

       (b) receive evidence on oath, whether orally or otherwise; and

       (c) require the production of documents, articles or devices for
            projecting non‑physical products.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

Disobedience to summons an offence

 59.—(1) A person who has been summoned to appear as a witness
before the Registrar must not, without lawful excuse, fail to appear in
obedience to the summons.

 (2) A person who has been required by the Registrar to produce a
document, an article or a device for projecting a non‑physical product
must not, without lawful excuse, fail to produce the document, article
or device.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Refusal to give evidence an offence

 60.—(1) A person who appears before the Registrar must not,
without lawful excuse, refuse to be sworn or to make an affirmation,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              58

or to produce documents, articles or devices for projecting
non‑physical products, or to answer questions, which the person is
required by the Registrar to produce or answer.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Immunity of Office and Registrar as regards official acts

 61. Neither the Office nor the Registrar nor any person acting under
its, his or her authority —

       (a) is to be taken to warrant the validity of the registration of
            any design registered under this Act or under any treaty,
            convention, arrangement or engagement to which
            Singapore is a party; or

       (b) is subject to any liability by reason of, or in connection
            with, any examination required or authorised by this Act,
            or any such treaty, convention, arrangement or
            engagement, or any report or other proceedings
            consequent on such examination.

Appeal from decision or order of Registrar

 62.—(1) Except as provided by rules made under this Act, an
appeal lies to the Court from any decision or order of the Registrar
under this Act.

 (2) Any appeal under this Act which concerns an application for
registration of a design must be heard in private unless the Court
otherwise directs.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) An appeal does not lie to the appellate court from a decision of
the Court on appeal from a decision or order of the Registrar under
this Act unless permission to appeal is given by the appellate court.

                                                                                                [23/2019; 40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
59  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

(4) In this section —

    “appellate court” means the court to which an appeal under
       subsection (3) is to be made under section 29C of the
       Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969;

    “decision” includes any act of the Registrar done in the exercise
       of a discretion vested in the Registrar by or under this Act.

                                                                                                       [40/2019]

Exercise of discretionary power

 63. Where any discretionary power is given to the Registrar by this
Act, the Registrar must not exercise the power without giving to any
person who may be adversely affected by the Registrar’s decision an
opportunity to be heard.

              Division 4 — Hours of Business of Registry
Hours of business and excluded days

 64.—(1) The Registrar may issue practice directions to specify —
       (a) the hours of business of the Registry; and
       (b) the days which are to be treated as excluded days.

 (2) The Minister may prescribe the effect of doing any business
under this Act —

       (a) on any day after the hours of business of the Registry; or
       (b) on any day which is an excluded day.
 (3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) —
       (a) different hours of business may be specified for different

            classes of business;
       (b) different excluded days may be specified for different

            classes of business; and
       (c) different effects of doing business —

               (i) outside the hours of business of the Registry; or
              (ii) on an excluded day,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                               60

          (c) may be prescribed for different classes of business.

                                   PART 5A

   THE GENEVA ACT OF THE HAGUE AGREEMENT, ETC.

Power to make provision giving effect to the Geneva Act of the
Hague Agreement, etc.

 64A.—(1) The Minister may make rules to give effect in Singapore
to the provisions of the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement or of any
other treaty, convention, arrangement or engagement relating to
designs to which Singapore is a party.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules may, in particular, be
made to provide for —

       (a) the procedures to be followed for the filing of applications
            for international registrations through the Registry;

       (b) the procedures to be followed where an application for
            international registration fails or the international
            registration ceases to be in force;

       (c) the effects of a successful application for international
            registration designating Singapore as a country in which
            the design is to be registered;

       (d) the communication of information to the International
            Bureau; and

       (e) the payment of fees (including transmittal fees) and
            amounts prescribed in respect of applications for
            international registrations, corrections and renewals.

 (3) Provision may also be made in the rules to apply, in relation to
an international design (Singapore), the provisions of section 44 and
Parts 4 and 6.

 (4) In this section —

      “Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement” means the Act, signed at
         Geneva on 2 July 1999, of the Hague Agreement Concerning
         the International Registration of Industrial Designs;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
61  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    “international design (Singapore)” means —

    (a) a design which is entitled to protection in Singapore
         under the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement; or

    (b) a design prescribed by the Minister as an
         international design (Singapore);

    “international registration” means the international registration
       of an industrial design effected according to the Geneva Act
       of the Hague Agreement.

                                                                                                       [16/2012]

                                    PART 6

                                  OFFENCES

Falsification of Register, etc.

 65. Any person who —

       (a) makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in the Register;

       (b) makes, or causes to be made, any thing false purporting to
            be a copy of an entry in the Register; or

       (c) produces or tenders or causes to be produced or tendered in
            evidence any thing referred to in paragraph (b),

knowing or having reason to believe the entry or thing (as the case
may be) is false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

False representation that design is registered

 66.—(1) Any person who falsely represents that a design applied to
any article, non‑physical product or set of articles and non‑physical
products disposed of by the person for value is registered in respect of
that article, non‑physical product or set of articles and non‑physical
products shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              62

to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

(a) a person is deemed to represent that a design applied to any
     article is registered in respect of that article, if there is
     stamped, engraved or impressed on or otherwise applied to
     the article anything expressing or implying that the design
     applied to the article has been registered in respect of that
     article;

                                                                      [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

(b) a person is deemed to represent that a design applied to any
     non‑physical product is registered in respect of that
     non‑physical product, if —

          (i) there is applied to the non‑physical product anything
              expressing or implying that the design applied to the
              non‑physical product has been registered in respect
              of that non‑physical product; or

                (ii) there is stamped, engraved or impressed on or
                     otherwise applied to a device for projecting the
                     non‑physical product anything expressing or
                     implying that the design applied to the
                     non‑physical product has been registered in respect
                     of that non‑physical product; and

                                                                                                          [29/2017]

                                                                                [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

          (c) a person is deemed to represent that a design applied to a
              set of articles and non-physical products is registered in
              respect of that set, if there is stamped, engraved or
              impressed on or otherwise applied to that set or any part
              of that set (including a device for projecting a non-physical
              product that is part of that set) anything expressing or
              implying that the design applied to the set has been
              registered in respect of that set.

                                                                                [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
63  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (3) A person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both, if the person, after the right
in a registered design has expired —

    (a) marks any article to which the design has been applied with
         anything implying that there is a subsisting right in the
         design under this Act, or causes any such article to be so
         marked;

    (b) applies, or causes to be applied, to a non‑physical product
         to which the design has been applied, anything implying
         that there is a subsisting right in the design under this Act;
         or

    (c) marks any device for projecting a non‑physical product
        (being a non‑physical product to which the design has been
        applied) with anything implying that there is a subsisting
        right in the design under this Act, or causes any such
        device to be so marked.

                                                                                                    [29/2017]

Offences by partnership or body corporate

 67.—(1) Proceedings for an offence under this Act alleged to have
been committed by a partnership must be brought against the
partnership in the name of the firm and not in that of the partners; but
without affecting any liability of the partners under subsection (3).

 (2) A fine imposed on a partnership on its conviction in such
proceedings must be paid out of the partnership assets.

 (3) Where a partnership is guilty of an offence under this Act, every
partner, other than a partner who is proved to have been ignorant of or
to have attempted to prevent the commission of the offence, is also
guilty of the offence and liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body corporate
is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
corporate, or a person who was purporting to act in any such capacity,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.     Registered Designs Act 2000                           64

he or she as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

Composition of offences

 68.—(1) The Registrar or any person authorised in writing by the
Registrar may compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed
as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the
lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

                         [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

 (2) The Office may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences that may be compounded.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

                                   PART 6A
            ASSISTANCE BY BORDER AUTHORITIES*

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                   Division 1 — Preliminary provisions
Interpretation of this Part

 68A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “aircraft” has the same meaning as in section 2(1) of the
         Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995*;
      “authorised officer” means —
              (a) an officer of customs as defined in section 3(1) of the
                   Customs Act 1960*; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
65  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

            (b) any officer or class or description of officers
                 appointed under section 68B(2);

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

    “conveyance” has the same meaning as in section 2(1) of the
       Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995*;

    “Director-General” means the Director-General of Customs
       appointed under section 4(1) of the Customs Act 1960*;

    “goods in transit” means goods imported, whether or not landed
       or transhipped within Singapore, which are to be carried to
       another country either by the same or another conveyance;

    “infringement action” means an action for an infringement of a
       registered design;

    “infringing article” means an article in respect of which a design
       is registered and to which the design, or a design not
       substantially different from that design, has been applied,
       where —

    (a) the article is made in Singapore without the consent
         of the registered owner and in a way that infringes the
         design; or

    (b) the article is made in another country or territory
         without the consent of the registered owner and in a
         way that, had it been made in Singapore, would have
         infringed the design;

    “infringing device” means a device for projecting a non-physical
       product, being a non-physical product in respect of which a
       design is registered and to which the design or a design not
       substantially different from that design, has been applied,
       where —

    (a) the device is made in Singapore without the consent
         of the registered owner and in a way that infringes the
         design; or

    (b) the device is made in another country or territory
         without the consent of the registered owner and in a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              66

          way that, had it been made in Singapore, would have
          infringed the design;

“infringing goods” means an infringing article or infringing
   device;

“owner”, in relation to the registered design, means the
   registered owner of the registered design and includes an
   exclusive licensee of the registered design;

“requestor” means a person who gives a written notice under
   section 68D(1) to the Director-General;

“retention period”, in relation to seized goods, means —

          (a) the period specified in a notice given under
               section 68G(2) in respect of those goods; or

          (b) if that period has been extended under
               section 68G(6), that period as so extended;

“seized goods” means goods seized under section 68D(4);

“senior authorised officer” means —

          (a) a senior officer of customs as defined in section 3(1)
               of the Customs Act 1960*; or

        (b) any officer or class or description of officers
             appointed under section 68B(3);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

“vehicle” and “vessel” have the respective meanings given by
   section 2(1) of the Regulation of Imports and Exports Act
   1995*.

          [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]
                                        [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Administration of this Part

 68B.—(1) The Director-General may delegate to a senior officer of
customs (within the meaning of section 3(1) of the Customs Act
1960*) any of the powers of the Director-General under this Part
(except the power of delegation conferred by this section), subject to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
67  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

such conditions or restrictions as the Director-General may
determine.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on an authorised officer by this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on a senior authorised officer by this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (4) An appointment under subsection (2) or (3) must be published
in the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Fees

 68C.—(1) The Minister charged with the responsibility for customs
duties may make rules to prescribe the fees payable to the Director-
General in connection with the administration of this Part.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules may be made to prescribe
the fees for the following purposes:

       (a) for the escort of a conveyance conveying seized goods;

       (b) for the attendance of an authorised officer or a senior
            authorised officer in connection with the inspection or
            destruction of seized goods;

       (c) for the attendance of an authorised officer or a senior
            authorised officer in connection with any other act or
            service under this Part.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                Division 2 — Seizure of goods on request

Request for seizure of infringing goods

 68D.—(1) The owner of a registered design may give the Director-
General a written notice —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              68

(a) stating that the owner is —

          (i) the registered owner of the registered design; or

          (ii) the exclusive licensee of the registered design;

(b) stating that goods that are infringing goods in relation to
     the registered design are expected to be imported or
     exported;

          (c) providing sufficient information —

          (i) to identify the goods;

          (ii) to enable the Director-General to ascertain when and
               where the goods are expected to be imported or
               exported, as the case may be; and

          (iii) to satisfy the Director-General that the goods are
                infringing goods in relation to the registered design;
                and

(d) requesting the Director-General to seize the goods.

(2) A notice under subsection (1) must be —

(a) in the form determined by the Director-General, and
     supported by such documents and information as the
     Director-General may require; and

(b) accompanied by the fee prescribed under section 68C.

 (3) A notice under subsection (1) remains in force until the 59th day
after the day on which the notice was given, unless it is revoked,
before the end of that period, by a written notice given to the Director-
General by the requestor.

(4) If —

(a) a notice has been given under subsection (1) in respect of a
     registered design;

(b) the notice has not lapsed or been revoked; and

          (c) a person imports or proposes to export goods, not being
              goods in transit, that, in the opinion of an authorised
              officer, are infringing goods in relation to the registered
              design in question,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
69  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

an authorised officer may seize the goods.

 (5) The Minister may make rules that are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Division, and in
particular to provide —

    (a) for the times at which, and the manner in which, notices are
         to be given;

    (b) for the giving of information and evidence to the Director-
         General; and

    (c) that an authorised officer may refuse to seize any goods
        because of non-compliance with any direction of the
        Director-General or any such rule.

                                                                        [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Security for liability or expense of seizure, storage and disposal

 68E. An authorised officer may refuse to seize goods under
section 68D unless the requestor —

       (a) deposits with the Director-General a sum of money that, in
            the opinion of the Director-General, is sufficient; or

       (b) gives security, to the satisfaction of the Director-General,

for the reimbursement to the Government of any liability or
reasonable expense it is likely to incur in relation to the seizure,
storage and disposal of the goods, and for the payment of such
compensation as may be ordered by the Court under section 68M(2)
or 68N(6).

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Secure storage of seized goods

 68F. At the Director-General’s direction, seized goods must be
taken to a secure place the Director-General directs, either by the
person in possession, custody or control of those goods immediately
before the seizure or the requestor, whoever the Director-General
considers appropriate.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.           Registered Designs Act 2000                     70

Notice of seizure

 68G.—(1) As soon as is practicable after goods are seized under
section 68D, the Director-General must give to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be), and the requestor, personally, by post or
(with the prior consent of the addressee) by email, a written notice
identifying the goods and stating that they have been seized.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must state that the goods will be
released to the importer or exporter (as the case may be) unless —

(a) an infringement action in respect of the goods is instituted
     by the requestor within a specified period after the day
     specified in the notice; and

(b) the requestor gives written notice to the Director-General
     within that period stating that the infringement action has
     been instituted.

 (3) The period to be specified for the purposes of subsection (2)(a)
is the period prescribed for the purposes of that provision.

 (4) The day specified for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) must not
be earlier than the day on which the notice is given.

 (5) The requestor may, by written notice given to the Director-
General before the end of the period specified in a notice for the
purposes of subsection (2)(a) (called in this section the initial period),
request that the period be extended.

(6) Subject to subsection (7), if —

(a) a request is made in accordance with subsection (5); and

(b) the Director-General is satisfied that it is reasonable that
     the request be granted,

the Director-General may extend the initial period by such period as
is prescribed.

 (7) A decision on a request made in accordance with subsection (5)
must be made within 2 working days after the request is made, but
such a decision cannot be made after the end of the initial period to
which the request relates.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
71  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

Persons bound to give information or produce documents

 68H.—(1) At any time after goods have been seized under
section 68D, an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer
who has reasonable cause to believe that a person has any information
or document that the officer considers is relevant for any of the
purposes in subsection (2), may require that person to provide to the
officer that information or document at a time and place specified by
the officer.

(2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

    (a) to enable the Director-General to satisfy a request under
         section 68I (whether or not such a request has actually been
         received);

    (b) to enable any action to be taken under this Division in
         relation to future shipments of goods; and

    (c) for a statistical or research purpose.

(3) A person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
         requirement under subsection (1); or

    (b) in purported compliance with such requirement,
         knowingly or recklessly provides any information or
         document that is false or misleading in a material
         particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
months or to both.

 (4) A person is not excused from providing any information or
document in compliance with a requirement under subsection (1) on
the ground that it might tend to incriminate the person.

 (5) Where the person claims, before providing any information or
document pursuant to a requirement under subsection (1), that it
might tend to incriminate the person, then the information or
document is not admissible in evidence against the person in
criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under
subsection (3).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              72

 (6) No information or document that is provided pursuant to a
requirement under subsection (1) may be published, or
communicated or disclosed to any person, except where and to the
extent it is necessary for a purpose in subsection (2).

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Information on import or export

 68I.—(1) After goods have been seized under section 68D, the
Director-General may, upon the request of the requestor, and if the
Director-General is satisfied that the information is necessary to
enable the requestor to institute an infringement action, give the
requestor the name and contact details of any person connected with
the import or proposed export (as the case may be) of the seized
goods.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies despite any duty of confidentiality
imposed by the common law on the Director-General or a person
to whom the Director-General has delegated the power under that
subsection.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Inspection of seized goods

 68J.—(1) The Director-General may permit the requestor, or the
importer or exporter (as the case may be), to inspect the seized goods.

 (2) If the requestor gives the Director-General the requisite
undertakings, the Director-General may permit the requestor to
remove a sample of the seized goods from the custody of the
Director-General for inspection by the requestor.

 (3) If the importer or exporter (as the case may be) gives the
Director-General the requisite undertakings, the Director-General
may permit the importer or exporter to remove a sample of the seized
goods from the custody of the Director-General for inspection by the
importer or exporter.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
73  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (4) The requisite undertakings are undertakings in writing that the
person giving the undertaking will —

    (a) return the sample to the Director-General at a specified
         time that is satisfactory to the Director-General; and

    (b) take reasonable care to prevent damage to the sample.

 (5) If the Director-General permits inspection of the seized goods,
or the removal of a sample, by the requestor in accordance with this
section, the Director-General is not liable to the importer or exporter
(as the case may be) for any loss or damage suffered by the importer
or exporter (as the case may be) arising out of —

    (a) damage to any of the seized goods incurred during that
         inspection; or

    (b) anything done by the requestor or any other person to, or in
         relation to, the sample removed from the custody of the
         Director-General or any use made by the requestor of such
         a sample.

                                                                         [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Forfeiture of seized goods by consent

 68K.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the importer or exporter (as
the case may be) may, by written notice and the giving of the
prescribed written undertakings to the Director-General, consent to
the seized goods being forfeited to the Government.

 (2) The notice in subsection (1) must be given before any
infringement action in relation to the seized goods is instituted.

 (3) If the importer or exporter (as the case may be) satisfies the
requirements of subsection (1), the seized goods are forfeited to the
Government and must be disposed of —

       (a) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

       (b) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the Director-
            General directs.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              74

Compulsory release of seized goods to importer or exporter

 68L.—(1) The Director-General must release the seized goods (not
being goods forfeited to the Government under section 68K) to the
importer or exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible after the
date of expiry of the retention period for the goods if the requestor has
not, before that date —

(a) instituted an infringement action in relation to the goods;
     and

(b) given written notice to the Director-General stating that the
     infringement action has been instituted.

(2) If —

(a) an infringement action has been instituted in relation to the
     seized goods; and

(b) on the 22nd day after the day on which the action was
     instituted, there is not in force an order of the Court in
     which the action was instituted preventing the release of
     the goods,

the Director-General must release the goods to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible after the
firstmentioned day.

 (3) If the requestor gives written notice to the Director-General
stating that the requestor consents to the release of the seized goods,
the Director-General must release the goods to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible.

(4) This section has effect subject to section 68O.

                                                                             [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Compensation for failure to take action

 68M.—(1) Where goods have been seized pursuant to a notice
given under section 68D(1) and the requestor concerned fails to take
infringement action within the retention period for the goods, a
person aggrieved by such seizure may apply to the Court for an order
of compensation against the requestor.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
75  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (2) Where the Court is satisfied that the plaintiff to an action under
this section had suffered loss or damage as a result of the seizure of
the goods, the Court may order the requestor to pay compensation in
such amount as the Court thinks fit to the plaintiff.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Infringement actions

 68N.—(1) The Court in which an infringement action is pending
may, on the application of a person having a sufficient interest in the
subject matter of the action, allow the person to be joined as a
defendant to the action.

 (2) An authorised officer is entitled to be heard on the hearing of an
infringement action.

 (3) In addition to any relief that may be granted apart from this
section, the Court may —

       (a) at any time, order that the seized goods be released to the
            importer or exporter (as the case may be) subject to such
            conditions, if any, as the Court thinks fit;

       (b) order that the seized goods not be released to the importer
            or exporter (as the case may be) before the end of a
            specified period; or

       (c) order that the seized goods be forfeited to the Government.

 (4) The Court may not make an order under subsection (3)(a) if it is
satisfied that the Government or any statutory authority is required or
permitted under any other law to retain control of the seized goods.

 (5) The Director-General must comply with an order made under
subsection (3).

 (6) If —

       (a) the infringement action is dismissed or discontinued, or the
            Court decides that the relevant registered design was not
            infringed; and

       (b) a defendant to the infringement action satisfies the Court
            that the defendant has suffered loss or damage as a result of
            the seizure of the goods,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              76

the Court may order the requestor to pay compensation in such
amount as the Court thinks fit to that defendant.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Retention of control of seized goods

 68O. Despite section 68L, in a case in which no order has been
made under section 68N(3) in relation to the seized goods, the
Director-General is not obliged to release or dispose of the goods if
the Government is required or permitted, under any other law, to
retain control of the goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Disposal of seized goods

 68P.—(1) If the Court orders that seized goods are to be forfeited to
the Government, the goods must be disposed of —

       (a) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

       (b) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the Director-
            General directs.

 (2) If —

       (a) the Director-General gives to the importer or exporter a
            written notice of the release of seized goods; and

       (b) the importer or exporter fails to take custody of the seized
            goods within the period specified in the notice,

the Director-General may dispose of the goods —

        (i) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

       (ii) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the Director-
            General directs.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Insufficient security

 68Q.—(1) If the reasonable expenses incurred by the Director-
General in relation to any action taken by the Director-General under
this Division, or taken in accordance with an order of the Court under
this Division exceed the amount deposited, or the amount of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
77  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

security given, under section 68E, the amount of the excess is a debt
due to the Government.

 (2) The debt created by subsection (1) is due by the requestor, or, if
there are 2 or more requestors, by the requestors jointly and severally.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                    Division 3 — Powers of inspection

Powers of inspection in relation to vehicles

 68R.—(1) A senior authorised officer, or an authorised officer
acting in accordance with the general or special directions of a senior
authorised officer, may board any vehicle in Singapore and may
inspect all parts of the vehicle for goods liable to be seized under
section 68D.

 (2) For the more effective exercise of the powers conferred by this
section, a senior authorised officer or an authorised officer may
require the person in charge of a vehicle —

       (a) to stop and not to proceed until so authorised; or

       (b) to bring the vehicle to any examination station.

 (3) It is presumed in any proceedings arising out of anything done
under this section, unless the contrary is proved, that any authorised
officer, not being a senior authorised officer, by whom the thing was
done was acting in accordance with the general or special direction of
a senior authorised officer.

 (4) Any person who contravenes this section or who fails to comply
with any lawful requisition or direction given or made under this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Examination of packages, etc.

 68S.—(1) Any goods, package, box, chest or other article which is
being or has recently been imported, or is being exported, and in
regard to which a reasonable suspicion exists that it is or that it
contains goods liable to be seized under section 68D may be —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              78

(a) examined and inspected by an authorised officer or
     detained until any person in charge of it has opened it
     for examination and inspection;

(b) subjected to such infringement verification, or tests or
     analysis as the authorised officer thinks fit; or

          (c) marked, locked, sealed or otherwise secured by an
              authorised officer pending examination and inspection.

 (2) An authorised officer may require the person in charge of any
package, box, chest or other article mentioned in subsection (1) to
open the package, box, chest or article (as the case may be) for
examination and inspection.

 (3) If the person in charge of the package, box, chest or other article
mentioned in subsection (1) refuses, or fails after being given
reasonable time and opportunity, to comply with the requirement
under subsection (2), a senior authorised officer, or an authorised
officer acting in accordance with an order of a senior authorised
officer, may forcibly open the package, box, chest or article to
facilitate the examination and inspection of it.

 (4) Any person, other than an authorised officer, who removes,
opens, breaks or tampers with any mark, lock, seal or other means of
securing any goods, package, box, chest or other article mentioned in
subsection (1)(c) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (5) In this section, “infringement verification” means any process
(whether involving the owner of the registered design concerned or
not) to determine if any article is or contains goods liable to be seized
under section 68D(4).

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Power to remove packages and goods to examination station

 68T.—(1) For the more convenient exercise of the powers
conferred by section 68S, an authorised officer may remove any
package, box, chest or other article or any goods to an examination
station or may require it to be so removed by the owner of it or the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
79  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

owner’s agent or any person having the custody, charge or control of
it.

 (2) A person who fails to comply with such requirement shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $6,000.

 (3) Upon the failure by a person to comply with such requirement,
an authorised officer may remove the package, box, chest, article or
goods in the manner provided by subsection (1), and all the expenses
of such removal (as certified by a senior authorised officer) are
recoverable as a fine from that person or from the owner of the
package, box, chest, article or goods.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Inspection of baggage and belongings on person

 68U.—(1) Any person landing or being about to land or having
recently landed from any vessel or aircraft, or leaving any vessel or
aircraft in Singapore whether for the purpose of landing or otherwise,
or entering or having recently entered Singapore by land, sea or air,
must —

       (a) on demand by an authorised officer, either permit the
            person’s goods and baggage to be inspected by the officer
            for any goods liable to be seized under section 68D or,
            together with the goods and baggage, accompany the
            officer to an examination station, and there permit those
            goods and baggage to be inspected in the presence and
            under the supervision of a senior authorised officer for any
            goods liable to be seized under section 68D;

       (b) on demand by a senior authorised officer, permit the
            person’s goods and baggage to be inspected by the officer,
            or in the presence and under the supervision of the officer,
            for any goods liable to be seized under section 68D; or

       (c) on demand by a senior authorised officer, remove
            belongings kept in or under the clothing of the person,
            for inspection for any goods liable to be seized under
            section 68D.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              80

 (2) The goods and baggage of any person who requests to be
present when they are inspected must not be inspected except in the
person’s presence, unless the person fails to be present after being
given reasonable facility for being present.

 (3) Any person who refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to
comply with any lawful demand made under this section shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
months or to both.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises

 68V.—(1) For the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by
sections 68R to 68U, an authorised officer may, without warrant,
enter upon —

       (a) any islet, landing place, wharf, dock, railway or quay;

       (b) any premises of a provider of port services or facilities
            licensed or exempted under the Maritime and Port
            Authority of Singapore Act 1996*; or

       (c) any premises of any airport operated under a licence or
            exemption under the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
            Act 2009*.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (2) In this section, “railway” has the meaning given by the
Railways Act 1905*.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                 Division 4 — Miscellaneous provisions

Obstruction

 68W. Any person who —

       (a) refuses any authorised officer or senior authorised officer
            access to any vehicle or place which the officer is entitled
            to under this Part; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
81  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    (b) obstructs or hinders any authorised officer or senior
         authorised officer in the execution of any power
         conferred on that officer by this Part,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

Protection from personal liability

 68X. No liability shall lie personally against the Director-General,
an authorised officer, a senior authorised officer, or any person acting
under the direction of the Director-General for anything done or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the
course of or in connection with —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Part;

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or the discharge or purported discharge of any duty under
            this Part; or

       (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Part.

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

                                    PART 7

        MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

Recognition of agents

 69. Except as otherwise provided by rules made under this Act, any
act required or authorised by this Act to be done by or to any person in
connection with the registration of a design, or any procedure relating
to a registered design or the registration of a design, may be done by
or to an agent authorised by that person orally or in writing.

General powers of Court

 70. The Court, for the purpose of determining any question in the
exercise of its original or appellate jurisdiction under this Act, may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              82

make any order or exercise any other power which the Registrar could
have made or exercised for the purpose of determining that question.

Costs in proceedings before Court

 71. In all proceedings before the Court under this Act, the Court
may award to any party (including the Registrar) such costs as it may
consider reasonable, but the Registrar must not be ordered to pay the
costs of any other of the parties.

Certificate of Registrar

 72. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar as
to any entry, matter or thing which the Registrar is authorised to make
or do under this Act is prima facie evidence of the entry having been
made, and of contents thereof, and of the matter or thing having been
done or not done.

Amendment of documents other than application for
registration

 72A. Subject to the rules mentioned in section 74(2A), the
Registrar may, at the written request of a person who has made an
application (other than an application for registration of a design), or
filed a notice or other document for the purposes of this Act, or at the
written request of the person’s agent, amend the application, notice or
document —

       (a) to correct a clerical error or an obvious mistake; or

       (b) if the Registrar is of the opinion that it is fair and
            reasonable in all the circumstances of the case to do so.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Fees

 73.—(1) There must be paid in respect of applications, registrations
and other matters under this Act such fees as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (2) All fees collected must be paid into the funds of the Office.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
83  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to fees prescribed in rules made
under section 64A(2)(e) which are to be forwarded to the
International Bureau.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (4) Subsection (2) does not apply to fees prescribed for the purposes
of Part 6A*.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

                                                                                [Act 34 of 2018 wef 21/11/2022]

General power to make rules

 74.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting with the Office, make
rules —

       (a) for any purpose for which rules are required or authorised
            to be made under this Act;

       (b) for prescribing matters authorised or required by this Act to
            be prescribed;

       (c) for prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be
            prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act; and

       (d) generally for regulating the practice and procedure of any
            proceedings or other matter before the Registrar.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules made under this section
may make provision —

       (a) prescribing the manner of filing of applications or other
            documents;

       (b) as to the practice and procedure of any proceedings or
            other matter before the Registrar;

       (c) requiring persons to make such statutory declarations as
            may be prescribed in support of any application, notice or
            request;

       (d) requiring and regulating the translation of documents and
            the filing and authentication of any translation;

       (e) relating to the service of documents;

        (f) authorising the rectification of irregularities of procedure;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              84

(g) prescribing the forms to be used for any purpose relating to
     the registration of a design or any other proceedings or
     matters before the Registrar;

(h) requiring fees to be paid in connection with any
     proceedings or matters before the Registrar or in
     connection with the provision of any services by the
     Registry and prescribing those fees;

          (i) empowering the Registrar, in such cases as may be
              prescribed, to require a party to any proceedings before
              the Registrar to give security for costs, in relation to those
              proceedings or to proceedings on appeal, and providing for
              the consequences if security is not given;

          (j) regulating the mode of giving evidence in any proceedings
              before the Registrar and empowering the Registrar to
              compel the attendance of witnesses and the discovery and
              production of documents;

          (k) prescribing time limits for doing anything required to be
              done in connection with any proceedings or matters under
              this Act;

          (l) providing for the extension of any time limit so prescribed
              or specified by the Registrar, whether or not it has already
              expired;

(m) providing for the publication of the practice directions
     issued by the Registrar;

(n) providing for the publication of the forms to be used for
     any purpose relating to the registration of a design or any
     other proceedings or matters before the Registrar;

(o) providing for the publication and sale of documents by the
     Registry and of information about such documents; and

(p) for the reinstatement, and the conditions for the
     reinstatement, of —

          (i) any application which is treated as withdrawn; or

          (ii) any right which has been abrogated, or thing which
               has ceased to be in force or to exist, by reason of a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
85  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

                   failure to comply with any time limit which has been
                   prescribed or which the Registrar has specified.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (2A) Without limiting subsection (1), rules made under this section
may make provision to enable the Registrar to publish a request —

    (a) to correct an error in the Register; and

    (b) to amend an application, a notice or other document,

and to provide for the making of objections to the correction or
amendment by a person claiming to be affected by it.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (3) Rules made under this section may make different provisions
for different cases.

Rules relating to application for registration

 75.—(1) Without limiting section 74, the Minister may, for the
purposes of section 11, make rules providing that an application for
registration of a design must or may contain —

       (a) a statement describing the representation of the design;

       (b) a statement describing the features of the design which the
            applicant considers to be new;

       (c) the classification of the articles, non‑physical products, or
            sets of articles and non‑physical products, to which the
            design is intended to be applied; and

       (d) if the design reproduced in the representation is to be
            applied to an article, a sample of the article.

                                                                                                           [29/2017]

 (2) Rules made under this section may provide for the manner in
which the following are to be claimed in connection with an
application for registration:

       (a) any claim that section 8, 9 or 10 applies in relation to the
            application;

       (b) any claim to a right of priority under section 12 or 13.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              86

Saving

 76. A reference in any law or document to the repealed United
Kingdom Designs (Protection) Act (Cap. 339, 1985 Revised Edition),
unless the context otherwise requires, is to be construed as a reference
to this Act.

Transitional provisions

 77.—(1) The provisions of the Schedule have effect with respect to
transitional matters despite the provisions of this Act.

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the provisions
of the Schedule.

 (3) For a period of 2 years after 21 November 2021, the Minister
may, by rules, prescribe such transitional provisions in relation to the
Copyright Act 2021 as the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

                                                                                                           [22/2021]

                                                                                                        [S 759/2022]

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                             Section 77(1) and (2)

                            TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

                                         Preliminary

 1.—(1) In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “initial period of registration”, in relation to a relevant design, means the
         initial period of its registration referred to in paragraph 2(3);

      “relevant design” means a design that is deemed to be a registered design for
         the purposes of this Act by virtue of paragraph 2(1);

      “UK Act” means the Registered Designs Act 1949 of the United Kingdom
         (U.K. 1949, c.88), as amended and as applied to Singapore by the United
         Kingdom Designs (Protection) Act (Cap. 339, 1985 Revised Edition);

      “UK Register” means the register of designs maintained under section 17 of
         the UK Act.

 (2) Unless the context otherwise requires, any word or expression used in this
Schedule and defined in the UK Act has the meaning given by that Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
87  Registered Designs Act 2000                              2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) For the purposes of this Schedule and to avoid doubt, the date of registration
of a design under the UK Act is to be determined in accordance with section 3(5)
of the UK Act.

                                      Relevant Designs

 2.—(1) A design registered under the UK Act before 13 November 2000 is
deemed to be a registered design for the purposes of this Act in respect of the
article for which it is registered under the UK Act if the registration has not
expired or been cancelled on 13 November 2000.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the reference in sub‑paragraph (1) to a design registered
under the UK Act before 13 November 2000 includes a reference to a design
registered under the UK Act the date of registration of which is deemed, under
section 3(5) of the UK Act, to be a date before 13 November 2000.

 (3) The registration of a design that is deemed to be a registered design under
sub‑paragraph (1) is for an initial period that ends on the earlier of —

        (a) the date of expiry of the period for which the right in the design is
             subsisting on 13 November 2000, if the period may not be extended
             under section 8(2) of the UK Act; or

        (b) the date the period falls due for extension, if the period may be
             extended under that section.

                                 Extension of Registration

 3.—(1) The period of registration of a relevant design may be extended for
additional periods of 5 years at a time, but the total period of registration may not
exceed 25 years from the date of its registration under the UK Act.

 (2) If the registered proprietor of the design desires to extend the period of
registration for a further period of 5 years from the expiry of its initial period of
registration, the registered proprietor must submit an application to the Registrar
in accordance with sub‑paragraph (3).

 (3) An application referred to in sub‑paragraph (2) must be made before the
expiry of the initial period of its registration, and must be accompanied by —

        (a) a representation of the design as registered under the UK Act;

        (b) a certified extract confirming registration of the design issued by the
             Registrar of the United Kingdom Designs Registry;

        (c) such particulars of transactions affecting rights in the design for the
             time being entered in the UK Register as the Registrar may require;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              88

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

(d) such other information, documents or matters as may be required by
     the rules; and

(e) the prescribed renewal fee.

 (4) Section 21(5) applies, with the necessary modifications, in relation to an
application referred to in sub‑paragraph (2), except that no late fee referred to in
section 21(5) is payable for an application made within 6 months after the expiry
of the initial period.

 (5) After the grant of an application referred to in sub‑paragraph (2), the
Registrar must enter in the Register —

(a) particulars of the relevant design, including the date of its registration
     under the UK Act;

(b) the name of the registered proprietor of the relevant design for the time
     being entered in the UK Register; and

(c) such other matters as the Registrar may think fit.

 (6) Section 21 applies, with the necessary modifications, in relation to any
further extension of the period of registration of a relevant design.

(7) Rules may be made to provide for —

(a) the form and manner of filing of an application for the extension of the
     period of registration of a relevant design, including the documents
     and information to be furnished by an applicant in support of the
     applicant’s application;

(b) the publication of any such renewal; and

(c) the right to inspect documents filed in support of an application for the
    extension of the period of registration of a relevant design, or to request
    for information relating to such application or the design concerned,
    and the conditions for the exercise of such a right, including any fee for
    the inspection or information.

                       Application of Act to Relevant Designs

4. For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) the registered owner of a relevant design —

                (i) during the initial period of registration of the design, is the
                     person whose name is for the time being entered in the UK
                     Register as the registered proprietor of the design; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
89  Registered Designs Act 2000                                      2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (ii) after the expiry of that period and the grant of an application
         referred to in paragraph 3(2) in relation to the design, is the
         person whose name is for the time being entered in the Register
         as the owner of the design; and

    (b) the date of registration of a relevant design is the date of its registration
         under the UK Act.

 5. A reference in section 5(2) to a design registered pursuant to a prior
application is to be construed as including a reference to a relevant design that is
registered under the UK Act pursuant to a prior application under that Act.

 6.—(1) An application under section 23 or 27, or a surrender of registration
under section 26, may be made in relation to a relevant design only after the expiry
of the initial period of registration of the design and the grant of an application
referred to in paragraph 3(2) in relation to the design.

 (2) Any cancellation of the registration under the UK Act of a relevant design
pursuant to section 11 of that Act, that is carried out —

    (a) during the initial period of registration of the design; or

    (b) after that period but pursuant to a request or application made during
         that period,

is for the purposes of this Act to be treated as a surrender or revocation (as the case
may be) of the registration under this Act and has the same force and effect as if it
had been made under this Act.

7.—(1) Sections 28, 29 and 53(2) do not apply in relation to a relevant design.

 (2) After the renewal of the registration of a relevant design under
paragraph 3(2) and upon the filing of a written request by any person in the
prescribed manner and the payment of the prescribed fee, the Registrar must —

    (a) give the person making the request such information; and

    (b) permit the person to inspect such documents,

relating to the application for renewal of the design concerned (including any
representation or sample of the design) as may be specified in the request, subject,
however, to such conditions as may be prescribed.

 (3) Rules may be made empowering the Registrar to refuse any request in
respect of such information or documents as may be prescribed.

 8.—(1) An application under section 34 for the registration of the particulars of a
registrable transaction in relation to a relevant design may be made only after the
expiry of the initial period of registration of the design and the grant of an
application referred to in paragraph 3(2) in relation to the design.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Registered Designs Act 2000                              90

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) An application for registration under section 19 of the UK Act in respect of a
registrable transaction in relation to a relevant design, being an application made
at any time before the end of the initial period of registration of the design, is, for
the purposes of section 34, to be treated as an application under that section for the
registration of the particulars of that transaction and has the same force and effect
as such an application.

 (3) For the purposes of this paragraph, “registrable transaction” has the meaning
given by section 34(2).

 9.—(1) An application under section 54 for the rectification of the Register in
relation to a relevant design may be made only after the expiry of the initial period
of registration of the design and the grant of an application referred to in
paragraph 3(2) in relation to the design.

 (2) Where, pursuant to an application made under section 20 of the UK Act
before the expiry of the initial period of registration of a relevant design, any
rectification is ordered to be made to the UK Register in respect of the design, the
Registrar must, either on his or her own initiative or upon application by an
interested party, make a corresponding rectification of the Register, and
section 54(4) has effect as if the rectification were a rectification made
pursuant to section 54(3).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  REGISTERED DESIGNS ACT 2000

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
           REGISTRATION OF UNITED KINGDOM

                       DESIGNS ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 159, 1936 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 6 of 1931 — Registration of United Kingdom Designs
                                   Ordinance, 1931

Bill                  : G.N. No. 806/1931

First Reading         : 11 May 1931

Second and Third Readings : 6 July 1931

Commencement          : 1 January 1932

2. Ordinance 10 of 1933 — Registration of United Kingdom Designs
                                    (Amendment) Ordinance, 1933

Bill                  : G.N. No. 441/1933

First Reading         : 6 March 1933

Second Reading        : 1 May 1933

Notice of Amendments  : 1 May 1933

Third Reading         : 1 May 1933

Commencement          : 11 May 1933

3. 1936 Revised Edition — Registration of United Kingdom Designs
                                    Ordinance (Chapter 159)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      ii

                                   PART 2
      UNITED KINGDOM DESIGNS (PROTECTION) ACT

            (CHAPTER 339, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

4. Ordinance 17 of 1938 — United Kingdom Designs (Protection)
                                    Ordinance, 1938

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1538/1938

First Reading         : 13 June 1938

Second Reading        : 29 August 1938

Notice of Amendments  : 29 August 1938

Third Reading         : 29 August 1938

Commencement          : 14 September 1938

5. 1955 Revised Edition — United Kingdom Designs (Protection)
                                    Ordinance (Chapter 187)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

6. 1970 Revised Edition — United Kingdom Designs (Protection) Act
                                    (Chapter 208)

Operation             : 1 July 1971

7. 1985 Revised Edition — United Kingdom Designs (Protection) Act
                                    (Chapter 339)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

                                 PART 3
               REGISTERED DESIGNS ACT 2000

                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

8. Act 25 of 2000 — Registered Designs Act 2000

Bill                  : 19/2000

First Reading         : 30 June 2000

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 2000

Commencement          : 13 November 2000

9. Act 3 of 2001 — Intellectual Property Office of Singapore Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 38(1) read with item (8) of the Fourth
   Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2001

First Reading         : 12 January 2001

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      iii

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement          : 1 April 2001 (section 38(1) read with
                            item (8) of the Fourth Schedule)

10. Act 26 of 2001 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                            2001

     (Amendments made by section 16 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 24/2001

First Reading         : 11 July 2001

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 2001

Commencement          : 1 September 2001 (section 16)

11. 2001 Revised Edition — Registered Designs Act (Chapter 266)

Operation             : 31 December 2001

12. Act 21 of 2004 — Intellectual Property (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                           2004

     (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 20/2004

First Reading         : 19 May 2004

Second Reading        : 15 June 2004

Notice of Amendments  : 15 June 2004

Third Reading         : 15 June 2004

Commencement          : 1 July 2004 (section 4)

13. Act 44 of 2004 — Registered Designs (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill                  : 42/2004

First Reading         : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement          : 1 January 2005

14. 2005 Revised Edition — Registered Designs Act (Chapter 266)

Operation             : 31 July 2005

15. Act 16 of 2012 — Intellectual Property (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                           2012

     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 14/2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      iv

First Reading         : 14 May 2012

Second and Third Readings : 10 July 2012

Commencement          : 7 March 2014 (section 3(a), (k) and
                            (m))
                            13 November 2014 (section 3(b) to (j),
                            (l), (n), (o) and (p))

16. Act 4 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 8 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 25/2013

First Reading         : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement          : 10 March 2014 (section 8(a) and (b))
                            30 April 2014 (section 8(c) and (d))

17. Act 29 of 2017 — Registered Designs (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill                  : 23/2017

First Reading         : 3 April 2017

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2017

Commencement          : 30 October 2017

18. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 29(15) and section 28(1) read with item 134 of
     the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 29(15) and
                            section 28(1) read with item 134 of the
                            Schedule)

19. Act 22 of 2021 — Copyright Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 507(6) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/2021

First Reading         : 6 July 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      v

Second Reading        : 13 September 2021

Notice of Amendments  : 13 September 2021

Third Reading         : 13 September 2021

Commencement          : 21 November 2021 (section 507(6))

20. 2020 Revised Edition — Registered Designs Act 2000

Operation             : 31 December 2021

21. G.N. No. S 759/2022 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of
                                    Acts) (No. 2) Order 2022

Operation             : 31 December 2021

Publication           : 26 September 2022

22. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

23. Act 7 of 2022 — Intellectual Property (Amendment) Act 2022

Bill                  : 39/2021

First Reading         : 1 November 2021

Second and Third Readings : 12 January 2022

Commencement          : 26 May 2022

24. Act 23 of 2019 — Intellectual Property (Dispute Resolution) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/2019

First Reading         : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 5 August 2019

Commencement          : 21 November 2019 (section 29)
                            1 October 2021 (section 28)
                            10 June 2022

25. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
               vi

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement   : 1 November 2022 (sections 18 and
                     22(13))

26. Act 34 of 2018 — Intellectual Property (Border Enforcement) Act 2018

Bill           : 24/2018

First Reading  : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement   : 21 November 2022

27. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                COMPARATIVE TABLE
         REGISTERED DESIGNS ACT 2000

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2005 Ed.
                   4—(2) [Deleted by Act 29 of 2017]
—
4—(2)                 (3)
                      (4)
   (3)                (5)
   (4)                (6)
   (5)             8—(2A)
8—(3)                 (3)
   (4)             15—(2A)
15—(3)                (3)
   (4)                (4)
   (5)             16—(5) [Deleted by Act 29 of 2017]
—                  32—(8A)
32—(9)                (9)
   (10)            53—(3A)
53—(4)                (4)
   (5)                (5)
   (6)             62—(2A)
62—(3)                (3)
   (4)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
