THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
                   (PROTECTION) ACT 2016

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
                                                               2020 Ed.

Administration of Justice
  (Protection) Act 2016

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                            TYPES OF CONTEMPT

3. Contempt by scandalising court, interfering with administration
       of justice, etc.

4. Contempt by disobedience of court order or undertaking, etc.
5. Contempt by unauthorised audio or visual recordings
6. Contempt by corporations
7. Contempt by unincorporated associations or partnerships
8. Common law rules on contempt
9. Inherent power of court

                                        PART 3

         JURISDICTION AND PUNISHMENT FOR CONTEMPT

10. Power to punish for contempt
11. Jurisdiction over certain publications, acts and omissions outside

         Singapore
12. Punishment for contempt of court
13. Power of Attorney-General to give non-publication direction

                                        PART 4
                          DEFENCES TO CONTEMPT
14. Fair and accurate report of court proceeding not contempt

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                            2

Section   Fair and accurate report of parliamentary proceedings not
   15.    contempt
          Report in good faith made to Chief Justice, police, etc., not
   16.    contempt
          Filing of pleadings and application against judge not contempt
   17.    Innocent publication or distribution
   18.    Publication outside Singapore
   19.    No knowledge proceedings were pending
   20.    Honest and reasonable mistake
   21.    No knowledge of making, etc., of recording of court proceedings
   21A.

                                        PART 5

                     INVESTIGATIONS BY POLICE AND
           APPLICATION OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE

22. Investigations by police and application of this Part
23. Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010
24. Statements recorded admissible

          PART 6

          PROCEDURAL MATTERS

25.       Summary procedure where contempt is in face of court
26.       Contempt proceedings
26A.      Evidence through video or television links
27.       Bail in contempt proceedings
28.       Standard of proof for contempt of court
29.       Burden and standard of proof for defences
30.       Consent of Attorney-General
31.       Attorney-General’s power to take over conduct of proceedings,
          etc.
32.       Appeals
33.       Enforcement of fines

                                        PART 7
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

34. Amendment of Schedule
35. Saving and transitional provisions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
         Administration of Justice

3        (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

Section

         The Schedule — Applicable provisions of Criminal Procedure
                               Code 2010 for purposes of investigations
                               under section 23

An Act to state and consolidate the law of contempt of court for the
  protection of the administration of justice, to define the powers of
  certain courts in punishing contempt of court and to regulate their
  procedure in relation thereto.

                                                              [1 October 2017]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Administration of Justice (Protection) Act 2016.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “court” means —
              (a) the Supreme Court;
              (b) any State Court;
              (c) any Family Court; or
              (d) any Youth Court;
      “Employment Claims Tribunal” means an Employment Claims
         Tribunal constituted under section 4 of the State Courts
         Act 1970;
      “judge” means —
              (a) in the case of the Supreme Court — a Judge and a
                   Registrar as defined in the Supreme Court of
                   Judicature Act 1969;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
                   Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.           (Protection) Act 2016                            4

          (b) in the case of a State Court — a judicial officer as
               defined in the State Courts Act 1970 and a Coroner as
               defined in the Coroners Act 2010;

          (c) in the case of a Family Court or a Youth Court — a
              judicial officer as defined in the Family Justice
              Act 2014;

          (d) in the case of the Small Claims Tribunals — a
               tribunal magistrate or the Registrar as defined in
               section 2(1) of the Small Claims Tribunals Act 1984;
               or

          (e) in the case of an Employment Claims Tribunal — a
              tribunal magistrate as defined in the Employment
              Claims Act 2016;

“publish” means to disseminate, distribute, exhibit, provide or
   communicate by oral, visual, written, electronic or other
   means (for example, by way of newspaper, radio, television
   or through the use of the Internet, subscription TV or other
   online communications system) to the public at large or a
   member of the public, and includes cause to be published,
   and “publication” is to be construed accordingly;

“Small Claims Tribunal” means a Small Claims Tribunal
   constituted under section 4 of the State Courts Act 1970;

“State Court” means a State Court constituted under section 4 of
   the State Courts Act 1970.

                                              [33/2018; 40/2019]

(2) In this Act —

(a) a court proceeding is pending from the time that it
     commences to the time that it is finally decided, struck
     out or is discontinued or deemed to be discontinued;

(b) a court proceeding commences —

          (i) in the case of any proceeding against a person in
              respect of any offence (other than an appellate,
              revision or reference proceeding referred to in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
   Administration of Justice

5  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

   sub‑paragraphs (iii) and (iv)) — from the earliest of
   the following events:

   (A) the issue of a notice to attend court, summons
        to appear before a court to answer a charge of
        the offence, or any other process to compel the
        attendance of the person to answer a charge of
        the offence;

   (B) the issue of a warrant for the arrest of the
        person for the offence;

   (C) the arrest of the person for the offence;

   (ii) in the case of any proceeding other than a proceeding
         against a person in respect of any offence (but not an
         appellate or revision proceeding referred to in
         sub‑paragraph (iii)) — from the time the
         originating process, application for permission or
         other application (including an application made
         before an originating process is filed) is filed in
         court;

                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

   (iii) in the case of proceedings on appeal from or for
         revision of a decision of a court in any
         proceedings — from —

   (A) the time a notice of appeal is lodged or filed or
        an application for permission to appeal is
        made; or

                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

   (B) the time an application for revision is made,

   (iii) as the case may be;

   (iv) in the case of a reference of a question of law of
        public interest under section 397 of the Criminal
        Procedure Code 2010 — from the time an
        application for permission or a reference by the
        Public Prosecutor is made; and

                                                              [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     6

          (v) in the case of an inquiry under the Coroners
               Act 2010 — from the time a Coroner is informed
               of a death under section 11 of that Act;

          (c) a court proceeding is finally decided —

          (i) in a case where there is a pending appeal, reference
              or revision — when the appeal, reference or revision
              is heard and finally decided including issues relating
              to assessment of damages and costs of the
              proceeding;

          (ii) in a case where no appeal or reference is pending —
               when the period of limitation prescribed for the
               appeal or reference has expired and all issues relating
               to assessment of damages and costs of the
               proceeding are heard and finally decided; or

          (iii) in the case of an inquiry under the Coroners
                Act 2010 — when the Coroner decides not to hold
                an inquiry under section 25(2) of that Act or when
                the inquiry is concluded unless the Public Prosecutor
                requires the Coroner to hold an inquiry or reopen the
                inquiry under section 26(1) or (3) of that Act, as the
                case may be;

(d) a court proceeding that has been heard and finally decided
     will not be deemed to be pending merely by reason of the
     fact that proceedings for the execution or enforcement of
     the decree, order or sentence passed in the proceedings are
     pending; and

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(e) a proceeding against a person in respect of any offence is
     deemed to include any criminal motion, case stated, or any
     other application made in or for the purposes of or in
     connection with the proceeding.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
   Administration of Justice

7  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

                            PART 2

   TYPES OF CONTEMPT

Contempt by scandalising court, interfering with
administration of justice, etc.

   3.—(1) Any person who —

   (a) scandalises the court by intentionally publishing any
        matter or doing any act that —

   (i) imputes improper motives to or impugns the
       integrity, propriety or impartiality of any court; and

   (ii) poses a risk that public confidence in the
        administration of justice would be undermined;

   (b) intentionally publishes any matter that —

   (i) prejudges an issue in a court proceeding that is
       pending and such prejudgment prejudices, interferes
       with, or poses a real risk of prejudice to or
       interference with, the course of any court
       proceeding that is pending; or

   (ii) otherwise prejudices, interferes with, or poses a real
        risk of prejudice to or interference with, the course of
        any court proceeding that is pending;

   (c) intentionally interferes with (by intimidation or otherwise)
       or hinders another person’s access to or ability to appear in
       court, knowing that this person is a party, witness, advocate
       or judge in ongoing court proceedings;

    (d) intentionally offers any insult or causes any interruption or
         obstruction to any judge of any court, while the judge is
         sitting in any stage of a court proceeding;

                                                                          [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

   (da) conducts or commences a court proceeding (whether as a
         party or an advocate in the court proceeding), and knows or
         ought to know that his or her conduct or commencement of
         the court proceeding —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     8

          (i) involves a deception on the court, or is fictitious or
              constitutes a mere sham; or

          (ii) is manifestly groundless or without foundation, and
               involves the process of the court being employed for
               some ulterior or improper purpose;

                                                                       [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

(db) conducts or commences multiple or successive court
      proceedings (whether as a party or an advocate in those
      court proceedings), and knows or ought to know that his or
      her conduct or commencement of those court proceedings
      is manifestly groundless or without foundation; or

                                                                       [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

 (e) intentionally does any other act that interferes with,
      obstructs or poses a real risk of interference with or
      obstruction of the administration of justice in any other
      manner, if the person knows or ought to have known that
      the act would interfere with, obstruct or pose a real risk of
      interference with or obstruction of the administration of
      justice,

commits a contempt of court.

      Explanation 1.—Fair criticism of a court is not contempt by scandalising the
court within the meaning of subsection (1)(a).

      Explanation 2.—A publication of any matter which falls within
subsection (1)(b)(i) or (ii) is not incapable of prejudicing or interfering with or
posing a real risk of prejudice to or interference with, the course of any pending
court proceedings, by reason only that the court is presided by a judge with legal
and professional experience.

          Illustration 1

      A is charged for rape of B. Z publishes in a newspaper an interview with A’s
ex‑girlfriend, Y. In the interview, Y claims that A had previously brutally raped her
and that A had served a long prison sentence for raping and molesting other
women. The prosecution is not permitted to disclose A’s previous convictions
during A’s pending rape trial. Z’s publication of this interview poses a real risk of
prejudice to or interference with the course of pending court proceedings
against A.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
   Administration of Justice

9  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

   Illustration 2

      A is charged for inflicting serious bodily harm on B outside a pub. As it was
dark, B had difficulty recognising B’s assailant. Z posts on an Internet news site, a
photo of A with fists clenched outside the pub with the caption, “Vicious Pub Bully
Caught”. The identity of B’s assailant is an issue in A’s pending trial. Z’s
publication of A’s photo and caption poses a real risk of prejudice to or
interference with the course of the pending court proceedings against A.

   Illustration 3

      A commences a court proceeding against B seeking damages. The court finds
that A knew or ought to have known that the commencement of the claim is
manifestly groundless and that A had initiated the proceeding for the ulterior
purpose of vexing or oppressing B. A’s commencement of the proceeding against
B constitutes a contempt of court.

                                                                               [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

                                         Illustration 4

      A is convicted of rape and is sentenced to imprisonment and caning. The
sentences are upheld by the appellate court. Before the sentence of caning is
executed, A, acting on the advice of A’s advocate, commences an application to
review the earlier decision of the appellate court. The court finds that both A and
A’s advocate knew or ought to have known that the commencement of the review
application is manifestly groundless and that the review application had been
commenced for the improper purpose of delaying the execution of caning until
after A turns 50 years of age, when A can no longer be punished with caning. The
commencement of the review application by A and A’s advocate constitutes a
contempt of court.

                                                                               [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

 (2) Where any person publishes any matter or does any act referred
to in subsection (1)(a), that person is guilty of contempt of court even
if he or she did not intend to scandalise the court.

 (3) Where any person publishes any matter referred to in
subsection (1)(b), that person is guilty of contempt of court even if
he or she did not intend to cause the consequences referred to in
subsection (1)(b)(i) or (ii).

 (4) A statement made by a person on behalf of the Government
about the subject matter of or an issue in a court proceeding that is
pending is not contempt of court under subsection (1)(b) if the
Government believes that the statement is necessary in the public
interest.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     10

          Illustration 1

      A statement made by a person on behalf of the Government factually
describing the events and circumstances relating to and leading up to the death of a
person (such as the acts of public officials when a coroner’s inquiry into that
person’s death is pending) which the Government believes is necessary to address
inaccurate or incorrect public allegations, is not contempt of court by virtue of
subsection (4).

          Illustration 2

      A statement made by a person on behalf of the Government factually
describing the circumstances of a riot, when criminal proceedings against a person
charged with participation in that riot are pending, which the Government believes
is necessary in order to inform the public of the riot, is not contempt of court by
virtue of subsection (4).

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), “necessary in the public
interest” includes but is not limited to matters that are necessary in the
interests of the security of Singapore or any part of Singapore, public
order, public health or public finances.

 (6) Where contempt of court is committed by the doing of any act
mentioned in subsection (1)(c) or (d), a person is guilty of contempt
of court if that person knows or ought to have known that the act
would prejudice or interfere with or obstruct or pose a real risk of
prejudice to or interference with or obstruction of the course of the
court proceeding.

 (7) A person who is not a party or an advocate in any court
proceeding commits contempt of court if he or she —

(a) causes or abets any party or advocate to conduct or
     commence a court proceeding mentioned in
     subsection (1)(da)(i), and knows or ought to know that
     the conduct or commencement of the court proceeding
     would involve a deception on the court, or would be
     fictitious or constitute a mere sham;

(b) causes or abets any party or advocate to conduct or
     commence a court proceeding mentioned in
     subsection (1)(da)(ii), and knows or ought to know that
     the conduct or commencement of the court proceeding
     would be manifestly groundless or without foundation, and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

11  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    would involve the process of the court being employed for
    some ulterior or improper purpose; or

    (c) causes or abets any party or advocate to conduct or
        commence multiple or successive court proceedings
        mentioned in subsection (1)(db), and knows or ought to
        know that the conduct or commencement of those court
        proceedings is manifestly groundless or without
        foundation.

                                                                               [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

 (8) In this section, “advocate” means any of the following persons
who represents any party in any court proceedings:

    (a) an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court;

    (b) a person who is admitted to practise as an advocate and
         solicitor under section 15 of the Legal Profession
         Act 1966;

    (c) a lawyer (non-practitioner) who holds a provisional
        practising certificate issued under section 18 of that Act;

    (d) a foreign lawyer who is registered under section 36P of that
         Act.

                           [Act 45 of 2024 wef 28/01/2025]

Contempt by disobedience of court order or undertaking, etc.

 4.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) intentionally disobeys or breaches any judgment, decree,
            direction, order, writ or other process of a court; or

       (b) intentionally breaches any undertaking given to a court,

commits a contempt of court.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), intentional disposal by a
person against whom an enforcement order for attachment of a debt
has been made, otherwise than in accordance with law or with
permission of the court, of any property subject to the order in his or
her hands or under his or her control, is contempt of court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     12

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a person commits a contempt
of court if the person —

(a) being legally bound to produce or deliver any document to
     the court, intentionally omits to so produce or deliver up
     the document;

(b) being legally bound to bind himself or herself by oath or
     affirmation to state the truth, refuses to so bind himself or
     herself;

          (c) being legally bound to state the truth on any subject to the
              court, refuses to answer any question demanded of him or
              her touching that subject by the court in the exercise of the
              lawful powers of the court; or

(d) refuses to sign any statement made by him or her, when
     required to sign that statement by a court lawfully
     competent to require that he or she sign that statement.

 (4) Subject to subsections (5), (6) and (7), any contempt of court
referred to in subsection (1) or (2) may be waived by the aggrieved
party and such waiver relieves from liability the person who commits
the contempt.

 (5) The court may, in its discretion, disallow the waiver of any
contempt of court mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) in any of the
following circumstances:

(a) the Attorney-General has authorised investigations
     pursuant to section 22 for the contempt of court;

(b) proceedings have been commenced in respect of the
     contempt of court;

          (c) the contempt of court is of such a nature that it interferes
              with, obstructs or poses a real risk of interference with or
              obstruction of the administration of justice;

(d) it would be contrary to the public interest to allow the
     waiver.

 (6) The court may, in granting any waiver of contempt of court
under subsection (4), impose such conditions as it thinks fit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

13                     (Protection) Act 2016                  2020 Ed.

 (7) To avoid doubt, contempt of court referred to in subsection (3)
may not be waived.

 (8) A person who is not a party to an action commits contempt if he
or she causes or abets the breach of any judgment, decree, direction,
order, writ or other process of a court, with the intention of causing
such breach or knowing that it would cause such breach.

(9) In this section —

    “aggrieved party” means a party to the relevant proceedings for
       whose benefit any judgment, decree, direction, order, writ or
       other process of a court is given, made or issued, or any
       undertaking to a court is given, in proceedings other than a
       proceeding against a person in respect of any offence;

    “undertaking given to a court” includes an implied undertaking
       given to a court.

Contempt by unauthorised audio or visual recordings

 5.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), it is a contempt of court —

       (a) to use in court any audio recorder, electronic device or
            other instrument for audio or visual recording or both, or to
            bring into court any such instrument for the purpose of
            audio or visual recording or both, without the permission
            of the court;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

      (aa) to make an audio or a visual recording or both of court
            proceedings, or any recording derived directly or indirectly
            from it, without the permission of the court;

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) to publish or transmit an audio or a visual recording or both
            of court proceedings (being a recording mentioned in
            paragraph (aa) or made by means of any audio recorder,
            electronic device or other instrument mentioned in
            paragraph (a)), or any recording derived directly or
            indirectly from it; or

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.               (Protection) Act 2016                        14

       (c) to use any such recording in contravention of any
            conditions of permission granted under paragraph (a) or
            (aa).

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) Permission under subsection (1)(a) or (aa) may be granted or
refused at the discretion of the court, and if granted may be granted
subject to any conditions that the court thinks proper with respect to
the use of any recording made pursuant to the permission; and where
permission has been granted, the court may at its discretion withdraw
or amend it either generally or in relation to any particular part of the
proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) Without prejudice to any other power to deal with an act under
subsection (1)(a) or (aa), the court may order the audio recorder,
electronic device or other instrument mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
or any recording made with it, or both, or the recording mentioned in
subsection (1)(aa), to be forfeited; and any object so forfeited must
(unless the court otherwise determines on application by a person
appearing to be the owner) be sold or otherwise disposed of in the
manner directed by the court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) This section does not apply to the making or use of audio or
visual recordings or both for purposes of official transcripts of
proceedings or any other purpose authorised by the court.

(5) In this section —

(a) “court proceedings” includes court proceedings, or any
     part of court proceedings, conducted through any
     electronic means of communication;

(b) the reference to an audio or a visual recording of court
     proceedings includes an audio or a visual recording of —

          (i) a person participating in a court proceeding; or

          (ii) a person viewing or listening to a court proceeding,
               including an audio or a visual recording of a court
               proceeding; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

15  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) “recording” includes any recording of a temporary nature,
        including (but not limited to) any such recording for the
        purposes of contemporaneous or instantaneous publication
        or transmission.

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Contempt by corporations

 6.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for contempt of court under this
Act, it is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in
relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits contempt of court under this Act,
a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation, or a member of a
                   corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members; or

              (ii) an individual who is involved in the management of
                   the corporation and is in a position to influence the
                   conduct of the corporation in relation to the
                   commission of the contempt of court; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the contempt of court;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the contempt of court by the
                   corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   contempt of court by the corporation (or contempt of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.               (Protection) Act 2016                        16

          court of the same type) would be or is being
          committed, and failed to take all reasonable steps
          to prevent or stop the commission of that contempt of
          court,

shall be guilty of the same contempt of court as is the corporation, and
shall be liable on being found guilty of contempt of court to be
punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
contempt of court with which the person is charged and, in doing so,
the person bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would
bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for contempt of court under this Act, and applies
whether or not the corporation is found guilty of contempt of court.

 (6) This section applies to an offence under this Act as if it were
contempt of court under this Act and to a conviction as if it were a
finding of guilt of contempt of court.

(7) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               was a director of the corporation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

17  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Contempt by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 7.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for contempt of court under this
Act, it is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
contempt of court under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual who is involved in the management of
                   the unincorporated association or partnership and
                   who is in a position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the contempt of court;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.               (Protection) Act 2016                        18

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the contempt of court by the
               unincorporated association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                contempt of court by the unincorporated association
                or partnership (or contempt of court of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that contempt of court,

shall be guilty of the same contempt of court as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable on
being found guilty of contempt of court to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the contempt of court with which the person is
charged and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof
that the unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for contempt of
court under this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated
association or partnership is found guilty of the contempt of court.

 (6) This section applies to an offence under this Act as if it were
contempt of court under this Act and to a conviction as if it were a
finding of guilt of contempt of court.

(7) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

19  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

Common law rules on contempt

 8.—(1) This Act prevails over any common law rule on contempt
of court to the extent that the rule is inconsistent with any of the
provisions of this Act.

 (2) All defences at common law to contempt of court under this
Act, not contained in this Act, are repealed.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the common law rules on contempt of court
continue in force except so far as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the common law rules in this section refer to
both the substantive and procedural common law rules on contempt.

Inherent power of court

 9. Nothing in this Act limits or affects the inherent powers of a
court, including but not limited to —

       (a) the power of the General Division of the High Court, the
            Appellate Division of the High Court or the Court of
            Appeal to commence proceedings on its own motion for
            contempt of court;

       (b) the power of a court to cause a person to be removed from
            the court;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     20

          (c) the coercive power of a court to detain a person in custody
              until that person complies with the court’s order or
              direction for a period not exceeding the maximum term
              of imprisonment specified in section 12;

(d) the power of the General Division of the High Court, the
     Appellate Division of the High Court or the Court of
     Appeal to issue an injunction including but not limited to
     an interim injunction to restrain a contempt of court; and

          (e) the power of a court to require a person to provide security
              for compliance with an order of court, the payment of any
              money or the performance or non‑performance of any act.

                                                                                                          [40/2019]

                                    PART 3

     JURISDICTION AND PUNISHMENT FOR CONTEMPT

Power to punish for contempt

 10.—(1) The General Division of the High Court, the Appellate
Division of the High Court and the Court of Appeal have jurisdiction
to try and power to punish for contempt of court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court has and exercises the
same jurisdiction, powers and authority in accordance with the same
procedure and practice in respect of contempt committed in
connection with proceedings in the Court of Appeal, contempt
committed in connection with proceedings in the Appellate Division
of the High Court and contempt of courts subordinate to it as it has
and exercises in respect of contempt of itself.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The State Court, Family Court and Youth Court have
jurisdiction to try and power to punish for contempt of court where
the contempt is committed —

       (a) in the face of that court other than a Small Claims Tribunal
            and an Employment Claims Tribunal; or

       (b) in connection with any proceedings in that court.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

21  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

 (4) Despite subsection (3), the General Division of the High Court
in any particular case —

    (a) may, either on its own motion or on the application of the
         alleged contemnor, order that the case be transferred to and
         be tried before the General Division of the High Court; or

    (b) must, on the application of the Attorney‑General, order
         that the case be transferred to and be tried before the
         General Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                     [40/2019]

Jurisdiction over certain publications, acts and omissions
outside Singapore

 11.—(1) Without affecting the jurisdiction and power conferred
under this Act or any other written law, a court has jurisdiction to try
any contempt of court and to impose the full punishment under this
Act in the circumstances specified in subsections (2) to (5).

 (2) Where the publication in relation to contempt of court was
published through the Internet or other electronic media (regardless
of whether it was first published in Singapore or elsewhere), the
publication is taken to be published in Singapore if it was accessed by
members of the public in Singapore.

 (3) Where the publication in relation to contempt of court was
published otherwise than in subsection (2) (regardless of whether it
was first published in Singapore or elsewhere), if the publication was
published in Singapore.

 (4) Where the person who commits contempt of court under
section 4 is legally bound to obey or comply with the judgment,
decree, direction, order, writ or other process of a court or an
undertaking given to a court, regardless of whether the disobedience
or failure to comply occurred in Singapore or elsewhere.

 (5) Where the act in relation to contempt of court under
section 3(1)(c), (d) and (e) (regardless of whether it occurred
wholly or partly outside Singapore) directly interferes with,
obstructs or poses a real risk of interference with or obstruction of
the administration of justice in Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     22

          Illustration 1

      A resides in a foreign country and has agreed to testify as a witness in a
criminal trial in Singapore. B stops A from travelling to Singapore to testify in the
trial by making in the foreign country a death threat against A. The Singapore court
has jurisdiction under subsection (5) to try and punish B for contempt of court.

                                         Illustration 2

      A accepts a bribe from B in a foreign country as gratification for giving false
evidence in A’s testimony as a witness in a civil trial in Singapore. A gives false
evidence in the trial in Singapore. The Singapore court has jurisdiction under
subsection (5) to try and punish B for contempt of court.

Punishment for contempt of court

 12.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in any other written law, a
person who commits contempt of court shall be liable to be
punished —

       (a) subject to paragraph (b), where the power to punish for
            contempt is exercised by the General Division of the High
            Court, by the Appellate Division of the High Court or by
            the Court of Appeal, with a fine not exceeding $100,000 or
            with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or with
            both;

       (b) where the power to punish for contempt is exercised by the
            General Division of the High Court in relation to contempt
            in the face of or in connection with any proceedings in a
            State Court, Family Court or Youth Court (as the case may
            be), with a fine not exceeding $20,000 or with
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
            with both; or

       (c) where the power to punish for contempt is exercised by any
            other court, with a fine not exceeding $20,000 or with
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or with
            both.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) In addition to any punishment imposed under subsection (1),
where a person has committed contempt in relation to the proceedings
before a court, the court may refuse to hear the person until the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

23  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

contempt is purged or the person submits to the order or direction of
the court or an apology is made to the satisfaction of the court.

 (3) In addition to any punishment imposed under subsection (1), the
court may, on its own motion or on application by the applicant in the
contempt proceedings, make an order that the person who has
committed contempt must publish such notice, and in such manner, as
the court thinks necessary to apologise for the contemptuous
publication.

 (4) An order under subsection (3) may be made subject to such
exceptions or conditions (including the duration for which the
notification must be made accessible to members of the public) as
may be specified in the order.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), the court may discharge the person who
has committed contempt or remit the punishment or any part of it on
his or her purging of the contempt, submission to the order or
direction of the court or on apology being made to the satisfaction of
the court.

 (6) To avoid doubt, the court may, if the interests of justice so
require, find a person guilty of contempt of court and impose the
punishment under this section even though the person is absent.

Power of Attorney-General to give non-publication direction

 13.—(1) The Attorney‑General may, if he or she is satisfied that it is
in the public interest to do so and with the permission of the General
Division of the High Court under subsection (7), direct the publisher
of any matter to refrain from or cease publishing that matter.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) A direction given under this section may be subject to such
exceptions or conditions as may be specified in the direction.

 (3) A direction under this section may be served by such means as
prescribed in rules made by the Minister.

 (4) A direction under this section takes effect in respect of the
person to whom the direction applies —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     24

(a) from the date when that direction is served or deemed
     served on that person; or

(b) from such later date as the Attorney‑General may specify.

 (5) Any person who fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with a direction under this section shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (6) The Attorney-General may at any time suspend or cancel the
direction.

 (7) Permission of the General Division of the High Court must be
granted if the General Division of the High Court is satisfied —

(a) on the basis of a prima facie case that the person to whom
     the proposed direction will apply has published the matter
     specified in the proposed direction;

(b) on the basis of a prima facie case that the publication of
     such matter —

          (i) imputes improper motives to or impugns the
              integrity, propriety or impartiality of any court; and
              poses a risk that public confidence in the
              administration of justice would be undermined;

          (ii) prejudges an issue in a court proceeding that is
               pending and such prejudgment prejudices, interferes
               with, or poses a real risk of prejudice to or
               interference with, the course of any court
               proceeding that is pending; or

          (iii) otherwise prejudices, interferes with, or poses a real
                risk of prejudice to or interference with, the course of
                any court proceeding that is pending; and

          (c) that any exception or condition specified in the proposed
              direction is just and equitable.

                                                                                                          [40/2019]

                                                                              [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

25  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

 (8) An application for permission must be made in such manner as
may be prescribed in Rules of Court or Family Justice Rules except
that —

    (a) the application must be heard without the presence of the
         person to whom the proposed direction applies or the
         author of the matter specified in the proposed direction;
         and

       (b) the Attorney‑General is not required to give the publisher
            notice of the application before the hearing of the
            application.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (9) The person to whom the direction applies, or the author of the
matter specified in the direction, may apply to the General Division of
the High Court to set aside or vary the direction, within such period
and in such manner as may be prescribed in Rules of Court or Family
Justice Rules.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (10) On an application under subsection (9), the General Division
of the High Court may set aside or vary the direction in whole or in
part if it is satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that —

    (a) the person to whom the direction applies did not publish
         the matter specified in the direction;

    (b) the publication of the matter did not —

    (i) impute improper motives to or impugn the integrity,
        propriety or impartiality of any court; and pose a risk
        that public confidence in the administration of justice
        would be undermined;

    (ii) prejudge an issue in a court proceeding that is
         pending and such prejudgment prejudices, interferes
         with, or poses a real risk of prejudice to or
         interference with, the course of any court
         proceeding that is pending; and

    (iii) otherwise prejudice, interfere with, or pose a real risk
          of prejudice to or interference with, the course of any
          court proceeding that is pending; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.                (Protection) Act 2016                       26

       (c) any exception or condition specified in the direction is not
            just and equitable.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (11) An application made under subsection (9) does not operate as a
stay of the direction.

 (12) No criminal or civil liability is to be incurred for anything done
or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in
complying with a direction given under this section.

 (13) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section prevents the institution
or continuation of proceedings for contempt of court in respect of a
matter which is the subject of a direction.

 (14) Every offence under this section is an arrestable offence for the
purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (15) The Minister may make rules for the purposes of this section
and for prescribing anything that is required to be prescribed.

 (16) All rules made under subsection (15) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

(17) In this section —

“author” means the originator of the matter published;

“publisher” means any person who publishes the matter and
   includes an Internet Content Provider as defined in any
   subsidiary legislation made under the Broadcasting Act 1994
   but excludes any person or class of persons that the Minister
   may prescribe.

                                    PART 4

                      DEFENCES TO CONTEMPT

Fair and accurate report of court proceeding not contempt

 14.—(1) Subject to this section, a person is not guilty of contempt
of court under section 3(1)(a) or (b) for publishing in good faith a fair
and accurate report of a court proceeding or any stage of the
proceeding held in public, that was published contemporaneously
with, or within a reasonable time after, that proceeding.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

27  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) A person is not guilty of contempt of court under section 3(1)(a)
or (b) for publishing in good faith a fair and accurate report of a
proceeding before any court sitting in chambers or in private, that was
published contemporaneously with, or within a reasonable time after,
that proceeding, except —

    (a) where the publication is contrary to the provisions of any
         written law;

    (b) where the court, on grounds of public policy or in exercise
         of any power vested in it, expressly prohibits the
         publication of all information relating to the proceeding
         or of information of the description which is published;

       (c) where the court sits in chambers or in private for reasons
            connected with public order or the security of the State; or

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (d) where the information relates to a secret process, discovery
            or invention, or other confidential information which is an
            issue in the proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) A person is not guilty of contempt of court under section 3(1)(a)
or (b) for publishing the text or a fair and accurate summary of the
whole, or any part, of an order made by a court sitting in chambers or
in private, unless the court has expressly prohibited such publication.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) In any court proceedings, the court may, where it appears to be
necessary to the administration of justice in those proceedings, or in
any other proceedings pending or imminent, order that the
publication of any report of the proceedings, or any part of the
proceedings, be postponed for such period as the court thinks
necessary for that purpose.

Fair and accurate report of parliamentary proceedings not
contempt

 15.—(1) A person is not guilty of contempt of court under
section 3(1)(a) or (b) for publishing in good faith a fair and
accurate report of proceedings in Parliament or before a committee of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     28

Parliament, that was published contemporaneously with, or within a
reasonable time after, the proceedings.

 (2) A person is not guilty of contempt of court under section 3(1)(a)
or (b) for publishing in good faith a fair and accurate report of matter
in a document presented to or laid before Parliament or a committee
of Parliament, that was published contemporaneously with, or within
a reasonable time after, the presentation or tabling of the document.

 (3) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act limits or affects the
privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament.

Report in good faith made to Chief Justice, police, etc., not
contempt

 16.—(1) To avoid doubt, a person is not guilty of contempt of court
under section 3(1)(a) by reason that he or she has made a report to the
Chief Justice, the police, a law enforcement agency or any other
public authority alleging misconduct or corruption on the part of a
judge, being a report —

       (a) which is made in good faith; and

       (b) which discloses grounds which, if unrebutted, would
            provide a sufficient basis for the investigation of the
            allegation of misconduct or corruption.

 (2) In this section, “law enforcement agency” has the meaning
given by the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

Filing of pleadings and application against judge not contempt

 17.—(1) A person is not guilty of contempt of court under
section 3(1)(a) for filing in good faith any action, pleading,
application or affidavit in court.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person is not guilty of
contempt of court in respect of any application he or she may make to
seek the disqualification of the judge, on any ground or statement
made by him or her in good faith concerning the judge of any court to
that court or to —

       (a) any other court with equivalent jurisdiction; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

29  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) a superior court.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a person is not guilty of
contempt of court in respect of any appeal that the person may lodge
against a judgment, decree, direction, order or other decision of a
judge of any court, on any ground or statement made by him or her in
good faith concerning the judge to that court or to —

    (a) any other court with equivalent jurisdiction;

    (b) a superior court; or

    (c) a judge who has supervisory jurisdiction over the
        equivalent or superior court.

Innocent publication or distribution

 18.—(1) A person (not being the author) exercising editorial
responsibility or other control over a publication is not guilty of
contempt of court under section 3(1)(a) or (b) for publishing any
matter if the publication was done without the person’s authority,
consent or knowledge, and without any want of due care or caution on
that person’s part.

 (2) A person (not being the author) is not guilty of contempt of
court under section 3(1)(a) or (b) for distributing any matter if the
distribution was done without the person’s authority, consent or
knowledge, and without any want of due care or caution on that
person’s part.

 (3) In this section, “author” means the originator of the matter
published or distributed.

Publication outside Singapore

 19. A person is not guilty of contempt of court under section 3(1)(a)
or (b) for publishing any matter outside Singapore if the person did
not know and had no reason to believe that the publication would be
seen or heard by members of the public in Singapore.

No knowledge proceedings were pending

 20. A person is not guilty of contempt of court under section 3(1)(b)
for publishing any matter that prejudices, interferes with, or poses a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     30

real risk of prejudice to or interference with the course of any court
proceeding that is pending if the person did not know and had no
reason to believe that those proceedings were pending.

Honest and reasonable mistake

 21. A person is not guilty of contempt of court under section 4(1),
(2) or (3) if the person satisfies the court that the failure or refusal to
comply with a judgment, order, decree, direction, writ or other
process of court or any undertaking given to a court was wholly or
substantially attributable to an honest and reasonable failure by that
person, at the relevant time, to understand an obligation imposed on
the person bound by the judgment, order, decree, direction, writ,
process or undertaking and that that person ought fairly to be excused.

No knowledge of making, etc., of recording of court
proceedings

 21A. A person is not guilty of contempt of court under
section 5(1)(aa), (b) or (c) in relation to the making, publication,
transmission or use of a recording of a court proceeding, if —

       (a) the court proceeding was conducted through an electronic
            means of communication; and

       (b) the person did not know, and could not reasonably have
            known, that the person was making, publishing,
            transmitting or using a recording of a court proceeding.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                    PART 5

                 INVESTIGATIONS BY POLICE AND
       APPLICATION OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE

Investigations by police and application of this Part

 22.—(1) Where the Attorney-General —

       (a) receives a complaint from a judge that contempt of court
            has been committed; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

31  (Protection) Act 2016      2020 Ed.

    (b) has reasonable grounds to otherwise suspect that contempt
         of court has been committed and that it is in the public
         interest to do so,

the Attorney‑General must, in the case of a complaint made under
paragraph (a) in relation to contempt of court under section 3 or 4(8),
and may, in any other case, by order in writing authorise a police
officer to investigate the alleged contempt as if it were an arrestable
offence in such manner or mode as may be specified in that order.

 (2) This Part applies to the alleged contempt mentioned in
subsection (1).

Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010

 23.—(1) The Attorney-General may by order in writing authorise a
police officer to exercise, for the purposes of any investigation under
section 22, all or any of the powers in relation to police investigations
given by the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 as set out in Part 1 of the
Schedule.

 (2) For the purposes of any investigation under section 22, the
provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 set out in Part 2 of
the Schedule apply, with the necessary modifications, as if the alleged
contempt were an arrestable offence.

Statements recorded admissible

 24. The statements made to a police officer in the course of
investigations conducted pursuant to an order made under section 22
are admissible as evidence in proceedings for contempt of court under
this Act in accordance with section 258 or 259 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, as may be applicable.

                                    PART 6
                        PROCEDURAL MATTERS
Summary procedure where contempt is in face of court
 25.—(1) Where it appears to a court (other than a Small Claims
Tribunal and an Employment Claims Tribunal), that a person has
committed contempt in the face of the court, and that court is satisfied

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     32

that it is necessary for immediate steps to be taken for the protection
of the due administration of justice, that court may cause such person
to be detained in custody, and must as soon as practicable —

(a) cause the person to be informed in writing of the contempt
     with which he or she is charged;

(b) afford the person an opportunity to make his or her defence
     to the charge;

          (c) after taking such evidence as may be necessary or as may
              be offered by the person and after hearing the person,
              proceed, either immediately or after adjournment, to
              determine the matter of the charge; and

(d) make such order for the punishment or discharge of the
     person as may be just.

 (2) Despite subsection (3), the court may direct that a person
charged with contempt in the face of the court be detained in such
custody as the court may specify pending the determination of the
charge or be released on bail or on his or her own bond.

 (3) The provisions under Division 5 of Part 6 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 apply to any case where the court releases the
person charged with a contempt of court on bail or on his or her own
bond under this section and for the purposes of those provisions, the
contempt of court is treated as a non‑bailable offence.

 (4) To avoid doubt and despite subsections (1) and (2), the
proceedings being conducted in the court before the contempt in
the face of the court was committed may continue as the court thinks
fit.

Contempt proceedings

 26.—(1) Proceedings for contempt of court and the power of the
court to punish the contempt of court must be exercised in accordance
with the procedure set out in Rules of Court or Family Justice Rules.

 (2) To avoid doubt, this section applies to proceedings for contempt
of court even though —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

33  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) the Attorney-General has under section 22 authorised a
         police officer to investigate an alleged contempt as if it
         were an arrestable offence;

    (b) the Attorney-General has under section 23 authorised a
         police officer to exercise all or any of the powers in relation
         to police investigations set out in Part 1 of the Schedule; or

    (c) the Attorney-General’s consent is required under
        section 30 for the institution of such proceedings for
        contempt of court.

 (3) The court in any proceedings for contempt of court may award
costs to be paid by or to any party as it thinks fit.

 (4) The Rules Committee constituted under the Supreme Court of
Judicature Act 1969 may make Rules of Court prescribing the
procedure for proceedings for contempt of court, the procedure for
the punishment of contempt of court and the procedure under
section 13(8) and (9).

 (5) The Family Justice Rules Committee constituted under the
Family Justice Act 2014 may make Family Justice Rules prescribing
the procedure for proceedings for contempt of court, the procedure
for the punishment of contempt of court and the procedure under
section 13(8) and (9).

 (6) To avoid doubt and for the purposes of the Supreme Court of
Judicature Act 1969 and the State Courts Act 1970, any originating
process for contempt of court is an originating process for the
purposes of service outside Singapore in the circumstances
authorised by and in the manner prescribed by Rules of Court or
Family Justice Rules.

Evidence through video or television links

 26A.—(1) Despite any other written law, but subject to this section,
in any proceedings brought against a person for contempt of court, a
court may only grant permission for the person against whom those
proceedings are brought to give evidence or to appear (other than to
give evidence) by means of a live video or live television link, if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     34

(a) the court is satisfied that —

          (i) it is in the interests of justice for that person to give
              evidence or to appear (other than to give evidence)
              by means of a live video or live television link; and

          (ii) sufficient administrative and technical facilities and
               arrangements are made at the place from which that
               person is to give evidence or to appear; and

(b) that person gives evidence or appears (other than to give
     evidence) by means of a live video or live television link
     from —

          (i) a place within a court or a prison in Singapore; or

          (ii) any other place in Singapore, where all parties
               consent to that person giving evidence or appearing
               from that place.

 (2) Despite any other written law, but subject to this section, in any
proceedings mentioned in subsection (1), the court may grant
permission for a witness (not being the person against whom the
proceedings are brought) in Singapore to give evidence from a place
in Singapore by means of a live video or live television link, if —

(a) the court is satisfied that sufficient administrative and
     technical facilities and arrangements are made at the place
     from which the witness is to give evidence; and

(b) any one of the following conditions is satisfied:

          (i) the witness is below the age of 18 years;

          (ii) it is expressly agreed between the parties to the
               proceedings that evidence may be so given;

          (iii) the court is satisfied that it is expedient in the
                interests of justice to do so.

 (3) Despite any other written law, but subject to this section, in any
proceedings mentioned in subsection (1), a court may only grant
permission for a witness (not being the person against whom the
proceedings are brought) who is not in Singapore to give evidence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

35  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

from a place that is not in Singapore by means of a live video or live
television link, if —

    (a) the court is satisfied that allowing the witness to give
         evidence from a place that is not in Singapore by means of
         a live video or live television link would be in the interests
         of justice;

    (b) the court is satisfied that sufficient administrative and
         technical facilities and arrangements are made at the place
         from which the witness is to give evidence; and

    (c) any one of the following conditions is satisfied:

    (i) the witness is an expert witness;

    (ii) the witness is a witness of fact and all parties consent
         to the witness giving evidence from outside
         Singapore;

    (iii) the witness —

    (A) is a witness of fact;

    (B) is unable to give evidence from a place in
         Singapore; and

    (C) has —

    (CA) sworn an affidavit, in accordance with
           any Rules of Court or Family Justice
           Rules governing such affidavit,
           containing the evidence-in-chief
           which the witness proposes to give to
           the court; or

                            (CB) made a statutory declaration in the
                                   manner provided in section 11 or 12
                                   of the Oaths and Declarations Act
                                   2000* containing the evidence-in-
                                   chief which the witness proposes to
                                   give to the court.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(c)(iii)(B), a witness is not
unable to give evidence from a place in Singapore merely because —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     36

(a) the witness fears arrest in Singapore or in any other
     jurisdiction;

(b) the witness fears prosecution in Singapore or in any other
     jurisdiction; or

          (c) a warrant of arrest has been issued against the witness in
              Singapore or in any other jurisdiction.

 (5) The court may, in granting permission under subsection (1), (2)
or (3), make an order on all or any of the following matters:

(a) the persons who may be present at the place where the
     witness is giving evidence;

(b) that a person be excluded from the place while the witness
     is giving evidence;

          (c) the persons in the courtroom who must be able to be heard,
              or seen and heard, by the witness and by the persons with
              the witness;

(d) the persons in the courtroom who must not be able to be
     heard, or seen and heard, by the witness and by the persons
     with the witness;

          (e) the persons in the courtroom who must be able to see and
              hear the witness and the persons with the witness;

          (f) the stages in the proceedings during which a specified part
              of the order is to have effect;

(g) the method of operation of the live video or live television
     link system including compliance with such minimum
     technical standards as may be determined by the Chief
     Justice;

(h) any other order the court considers necessary in the
     interests of justice;

          (i) any other matter prescribed by rules made under
              subsection (13) for the purposes of this subsection.

 (6) The court may revoke, suspend or vary an order made under this
section if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

37  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) the live video or live television link system stops working
         and it would cause unreasonable delay to wait until a
         working system becomes available;

    (b) it is necessary for the court to do so to comply with its duty
         to ensure that the proceedings are conducted fairly to the
         parties to the proceedings;

    (c) it is necessary for the court to do so, so that the witness can
        identify a person or a thing or so that the witness can
        participate in or view a demonstration or an experiment;

    (d) it is necessary for the court to do so because part of the
         proceedings is being heard outside a courtroom;

    (e) there has been a material change in the circumstances after
        the court has made an order; or

    (f) any conditions prescribed by rules made under subsection
        (13) for the purposes of this subsection are met.

 (7) A court may, if the court considers it necessary, either on the
court’s own motion or on the application of a person against whom
proceedings for contempt of court are brought, require a person
against whom proceedings for contempt of court are brought to be
produced in person before the court in proceedings mentioned in
subsection (1).

 (8) The court must not make an order under this section, or include
a particular provision in such an order, if to do so would be
inconsistent with the court’s duty to ensure that the proceedings are
conducted fairly to the parties to the proceedings.

 (9) In making any order under this section, or any particular
provision in such an order, a court is to have regard to matters
prescribed by rules made under subsection (13).

 (10) An order made under subsection (2) does not cease to have
effect merely because the person in respect of whom the order was
made attains the age of 18 years before the proceedings in which the
order was made are finally determined.

 (11) Evidence given by a witness (whether in Singapore or
elsewhere), or a person against whom proceedings are brought for

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     38

contempt of court, through a live video or live television link by
virtue of this section is deemed for the purposes of sections 193, 194,
195, 196 and 205 of the Penal Code 1871* as having been given in the
proceedings in which the evidence is given.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (12) Where a person gives evidence in accordance with this section,
the person is, for the purposes of the Evidence Act 1893*, deemed to
be giving evidence in the presence of the court.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (13) The Rules Committee constituted under the Supreme Court of
Judicature Act 1969*, and the Family Justice Rules Committee
constituted under the Family Justice Act 2014, may make such rules
as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of giving
effect to this section and for prescribing anything which may be
prescribed under this section.

                                                 [*Updated to be consistent with the 2020 Revised Edition]

 (14) In this section, “live video or live television link” means a live
video or live television link that is created using an electronic
communication technology approved by the Chief Justice.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Bail in contempt proceedings

 27.—(1) When any person appears before a court in proceedings
for contempt of court, the person may be released on bail by that
court.

 (2) Instead of taking bail from the person, the court may release the
person if he or she signs a personal bond without sureties.

 (3) The provisions under Division 5 of Part 6 of the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010 apply to any case where the court releases the
person charged with a contempt of court on bail or on his or her own
bond under this section and for the purposes of those provisions, the
contempt of court is treated as a non‑bailable offence.

 (4) A court may grant bail to a person who has filed an appeal
against any order or decision in accordance with section 32.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

39  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

Standard of proof for contempt of court

 28. The standard of proof for establishing contempt of court is that
of beyond reasonable doubt.

Burden and standard of proof for defences

 29. To avoid doubt, the burden of proof for proving the existence of
circumstances bringing the case within any of the defences to
contempt of court under Part 4 is upon the person relying on the
defence and the standard of proof is on the balance of probabilities.

Consent of Attorney-General

 30.—(1) No proceedings for contempt of court as defined in
section 3 or 4(8) may be instituted except by or with the consent of the
Attorney‑General.

 (2) To avoid doubt, proceedings for contempt in the face of the
court under section 25 and any other proceedings commenced by the
General Division of the High Court, the Appellate Division of the
High Court or the Court of Appeal on its own motion do not require
the consent of the Attorney‑General.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Attorney-General’s power to take over conduct of proceedings,
etc.

 31. Where proceedings for contempt of court, that were not
commenced by a court, are conducted by a person other than the
Attorney‑General, the Attorney‑General may, if he or she thinks fit,
take over the conduct of the proceedings at any stage of the
proceedings and continue the proceedings or, with the consent of the
court, discontinue the proceedings.

Appeals

 32.—(1) An appeal lies from any order or decision of the General
Division of the High Court, the Appellate Division of the High Court,
a State Court, a Family Court or a Youth Court —

       (a) in the exercise of its jurisdiction to try and punish for
            contempt of court; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
          Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.  (Protection) Act 2016                                     40

(b) otherwise under this Act.

                                                                    [40/2019]

 (2) No appeal may be brought under subsection (1) against any
order or decision of the General Division of the High Court in the
exercise of its appellate jurisdiction or the Appellate Division of the
High Court in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction, except with the
permission of —

(a) (in the case of the General Division of the High Court) the
     court to which the appeal is to be made under section 29C
     of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969; and

       (b) (in the case of the Appellate Division of the High Court)
            the Court of Appeal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) The appeal or application for permission to appeal must be filed
in accordance with Rules of Court or Family Justice Rules (as the
case may be) as if the appeal were an appeal in civil proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) An appeal does not operate as a stay of execution or
enforcement unless the trial court or the appellate court so orders.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) The trial court or the appellate court may stay execution or
enforcement on any judgment, order or punishment pending appeal
on such terms as to security for the payment of any money or the
performance or non‑performance of any act or the suffering of any
punishment ordered by or in such judgment or order as to the court
may seem reasonable.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) At the hearing of the appeal, the appellate court has and may
exercise any power which the trial court may have exercised.

Enforcement of fines

 33. Payment of a fine for contempt of court imposed by any court
may be enforced upon the order of the court in like manner as a fine
imposed by a court in criminal proceedings under the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
    Administration of Justice

41  (Protection) Act 2016                                     2020 Ed.

                       PART 7

    MISCELLANEOUS

Amendment of Schedule

 34.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such saving or transitional provisions as may be necessary or
expedient.

 (3) All orders made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Saving and transitional provisions

 35.—(1) This Act does not apply to any act of contempt of court
committed before 1 October 2017.

 (2) Any rules of court made under or in respect of the repealed
section 7 of the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969 or the repealed
section 8 of the State Courts Act 1970 and in force immediately
before 1 October 2017 will, so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, continue in force as if made under this Act
until they are revoked or repealed by Rules of Court made under this
Act.

 (3) Any Family Justice Rules made under or in respect of the
repealed section 11 of the Family Justice Act 2014 and in force
immediately before 1 October 2017 will, so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force as if
made under this Act until they are revoked or repealed by Family
Justice Rules made under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
                Administration of Justice

2020 Ed.        (Protection) Act 2016                               42

                THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                 Sections 23, 26(2)(b) and 34(1)

APPLICABLE PROVISIONS OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE 2010 FOR
           PURPOSES OF INVESTIGATIONS UNDER SECTION 23
                                           PART 1

        POWERS OF INVESTIGATION INTO ALLEGED CONTEMPT

1. Section 6
2. All powers under Part 4
3. Section 78(2)
4. Section 81
5. Section 83

6. Section 112
7. Section 113

                                         PART 2

                   OTHER APPLICABLE PROVISIONS OF
                     CRIMINAL PROCEDURE CODE 2010

1. Part 4 (Information to police and powers of investigation).

2. Division 7 of Part 6 (Surrender of travel document and requirement to
   remain in Singapore).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
                   (PROTECTION) ACT 2016

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 19 of 2016 — Administration of Justice (Protection) Act 2016

Bill                  : 23/2016

First Reading         : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 15 August 2016

Commencement          : 1 October 2017

2. Act 33 of 2018 — Small Claims Tribunals (Amendment) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 23(1) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 23/2018

First Reading         : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement          : 1 November 2019 (section 23(1))

3. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 2 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 2 of the Schedule)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Administration of Justice
                                    (Protection) Act 2016

Operation             : 31 December 2021

5. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by)

Bill                  : 18/2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
               ii

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

6. Act 45 of 2024 — Administration of Justice (Protection) (Amendment)
                           Act 2024

   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 34/2024

First Reading  : 14 October 2024

Second and Third Readings : 13 November 2024

Commencement   : 28 January 2025

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
     COMPARATIVE TABLE

ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
    (PROTECTION) ACT 2016

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.               Act 19 of 2016
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  35—(4)
[Omitted as having had effect]  36
[Omitted as having had effect]  37
[Omitted as having had effect]  38
[Omitted as having had effect]  39
[Omitted as having had effect]  40
[Omitted as having had effect]  41
[Omitted as having had effect]  42
[Omitted as having had effect]  43
[Omitted as having had effect]  44
[Omitted as having had effect]  45
                                46

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/1/2025
