THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE
                  PRACTITIONERS ACT 2000

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                                 2020 Ed.

Traditional Chinese Medicine
    Practitioners Act 2000

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                    TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE
                            PRACTITIONERS BOARD

 3. Establishment of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
         Board

 4. Functions of Board
 5. Chairperson of Board
 6. Disqualifications for membership of Board
 7. Filling of vacancies
 8. Meetings and quorum of Board
 9. Appointment of executive secretary and other employees
10. Appointment of committees

                                        PART 3

                     REGISTRATION OF TRADITIONAL
                   CHINESE MEDICINE PRACTITIONERS

11. Registrar of Board
12. Register of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
13. Alteration of Register
14. Prescribed practices of traditional Chinese medicine
15. Refusal of registration
16. Certificate of registration
17. Practising certificate

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.             Practitioners Act 2000                                   2

Section   List of registered traditional Chinese medicine practitioners with
   18.    practising certificates
          Power of Board to cancel registration, etc.
   19.    Costs
   20.    Appeal
   21.    Conviction final and conclusive
   22.    Restoration of registration
   23.

                                        PART 4

                                      OFFENCES

24. Unlawful engagement in prescribed practice of traditional
         Chinese medicine

25. Recovery of fees or charges
26. Fraudulent registration, etc.

                     PART 4A

          DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND INQUIRIES

          Division 1 — Voluntary cancellation, suspension, etc.

26A. Voluntary cancellation, suspension, etc.

          Division 2 — Inquiries into complaints against and
                    information on registered persons

26B.      Complaints against registered persons
26C.      Review of complaints and information
26D.      Withdrawal of complaints and information
26E.      Inquiries by Inquiry Committees
26F.      Duties of investigator in inquiries
26G.      Post‑inquiry

                     Division 3 — Interim orders

26H. Interim orders

          Division 4 — Inquiry Committees

26I. Appointment of Inquiry Committees
26J. Revoking appointment of Inquiry Committees, etc.
26K. Confidentiality of information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
         Traditional Chinese Medicine

3        Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

         PART 5

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Examinations Committee
   27.   Investigators
   28.   Powers for enforcement purposes
   29.   False information and obstruction of performance of official
   30.   duties
         Disposal and forfeiture of seized documents, records and things
   30A.  Funds of Board
   31.   Assessor to Board
   32.   No action against Board, etc., in absence of bad faith
   33.   Service of documents
   34.   Composition of offences
   34A.  Exemption
   35.   Regulations
   36.   Amendment of Schedule
   37.   The Schedule

An Act to provide for the registration of traditional Chinese medicine
  practitioners and for purposes connected therewith.

                          [7 February 2001: Except sections 24 and 25 ;
                                     1 January 2002: Sections 24 and 25 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act
2000.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “acupuncture” means the stimulation of a certain point or points
         on or near the surface of the human body through any
         technique of point stimulation (with or without the insertion

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    4

          of needles), including through the use of electrical, magnetic,
          light and sound energy, cupping and moxibustion, to
          normalise physiological functions or to treat ailments or
          conditions of the human body;

“Board” means the Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
   Board established under section 3;

“certificate of registration” means a certificate of registration
   issued by the Board under section 16;

“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Board;

“herbal medicine” means any material or product known or
   claimed to have therapeutic or other health benefits which
   contains either raw or processed ingredients of plant,
   inorganic or animal origin;

“Inquiry Committee” means a committee appointed under
   section 26I(1);

“institution of higher learning” includes any college and
   polytechnic;

“interim order” means an order made under section 26H(1);

“investigator” means a person appointed under section 28;

“member” means a member of the Board;

“modify”, in relation to any condition of registration, means —

          (a) delete or replace such a condition; or

          (b) add a condition of registration;

“practice of traditional Chinese medicine” means any of the
   following acts or activities:

          (a) acupuncture;

          (b) the diagnosis, treatment, prevention or alleviation of
               any disease or any symptom of a disease or the
               prescription of any herbal medicine;

          (c) the regulation of the functional states of the human
              body;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Traditional Chinese Medicine

5  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

   (d) the preparation or supply of any herbal medicine on
        or in accordance with a prescription given by the
        person preparing or supplying the herbal medicine or
        by another registered person;

   (e) the preparation or supply of any of the substances
       specified in the Schedule;

   (f) the processing of any herbal medicine;

   (g) the retailing of any herbal medicine,

   on the basis of traditional Chinese medicine;

   “practising certificate” means a practising certificate issued
      under section 17;

   “prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine” means any
      type of practice of traditional Chinese medicine that has been
      declared by the Minister by order made under section 14(1)
      as a prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine;

   “processing” means any type of treatment or preparation applied
      to a herbal medicine or mixture of herbal medicines based on
      traditional Chinese medicine before it is being —

   (a) offered for sale;

   (b) supplied to a patient; or

   (c) used for the manufacture of any herbal medicine;

   “Register” means the Register of Traditional Chinese Medicine
      Practitioners kept under section 12;

   “registered person” means a person who is registered under
      section 14 for the carrying out of any prescribed practice of
      traditional Chinese medicine;

   “Registrar” means the Registrar of the Board, and includes any
      individual acting in that capacity;

   “registration” means registration under section 14 for the
      carrying out of any prescribed practice of traditional
      Chinese medicine;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    6

“retailing” means the selling of any herbal medicine to a person
   who obtains the herbal medicine other than for the purpose of
   wholesale.

                                        [5/2018; 8/2019]

                                    PART 2

                TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE
                        PRACTITIONERS BOARD

Establishment of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
Board

 3.—(1) A body called the Traditional Chinese Medicine
Practitioners Board is established, which is a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal.

 (2) The Board consists of not less than 5 and not more than
11 members to be appointed by the Minister, of whom —

       (a) one must be a registered medical practitioner;

       (b) one must be the Registrar ex-officio; and

       (c) 2 must be registered persons with at least 10 years’
            experience in any prescribed practice of traditional
            Chinese medicine.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) Every member, except the Registrar, holds office for a term of
3 years and is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (4) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member without giving any reason.

Functions of Board

 4. The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to approve or reject applications for registration;

       (b) to accredit —

               (i) courses in the practice of traditional Chinese
                   medicine in Singapore for the purposes of
                   registration; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Traditional Chinese Medicine

7  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

   (ii) the institutions of higher learning in Singapore
        offering any of these courses;

   (c) to make recommendations to the appropriate authorities for
       the continuing training and education of registered
       persons;

   (d) to determine and regulate the conduct and ethics of
        registered persons; and

   (e) generally to do all such acts, matters and things as are
       necessary or authorised to be carried out under this Act.

Chairperson of Board

 5.—(1) The Minister must appoint one of the members to be the
Chairperson.

 (2) The Chairperson presides at any meeting of the Board and, in
his or her absence, any member that the members present may elect
presides at that meeting.

Disqualifications for membership of Board

 6. No person may be a member if —

       (a) he or she is not a citizen or a permanent resident of
            Singapore;

       (b) he or she is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (c) he or she has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of
            any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude;
            or

       (d) he or she is incapacitated by a mental or physical disability.

Filling of vacancies
 7.—(1) The office of a member becomes vacant if the member —
       (a) dies;
       (b) resigns his or her office;
       (c) becomes subject to any of the disqualifications specified in
            section 6;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    8

(d) without any good and sufficient reason, refuses to accept
     an appointment as a member of any committee appointed
     by the Board; or

          (e) has his or her appointment revoked before the expiry of his
              or her term of office.

 (2) The Minister may remove from office any member who is
absent without leave of the Board from 3 consecutive meetings of —

(a) the Board; or

(b) any committee of which he or she is a member appointed
     by the Board.

 (3) Any question as to whether a person has ceased to be a member
is to be determined by the Minister whose decision is final.

 (4) If any vacancy arises among the members, the Minister may
appoint a person to fill the vacancy in the manner in which the
appointment to the vacant office was made, and that person holds
office for as long as the member in whose place that person was
appointed would have held office.

 (5) The Board may act despite any vacancy in the membership of
the Board.

 (6) No act done by or under the authority of the Board is invalid in
consequence of any defect that is afterwards discovered in the
appointment or qualification of the members or any of them.

Meetings and quorum of Board

 8.—(1) The Board must meet at such times and places as the
Chairperson or the Registrar may appoint.

 (2) At any meeting of the Board, one-half of the total number of
members forms a quorum.

 (3) The Chairperson or member presiding at any meeting of the
Board has an original vote and, in the case of an equality of votes, a
casting vote.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Traditional Chinese Medicine

9  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

 (4) However, a member who is or was a member of an Inquiry
Committee inquiring into a matter relating to a registered person
under this Act —

   (a) must not vote or take part in any discussion or decision of
        the Board relating to the matter, or otherwise participate in
        any activity of the Board that relates to the matter;

   (b) must withdraw from any meeting or part of any meeting of
        the Board considering or discussing the matter if the
        Chairperson or other member presiding at the meeting so
        requests; and

       (c) must be disregarded for the purpose of forming a quorum
            for any meeting or part of any meeting of the Board during
            which a discussion or decision relating to the matter occurs
            or is made.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Board may regulate its own procedure.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Appointment of executive secretary and other employees

 9. The Board may appoint an executive secretary and other
employees on such terms as the Board may determine.

Appointment of committees

 10.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more committees for any
general or special purpose which, in the opinion of the Board, may be
better dealt with or managed by a committee.

 (2) The Board may delegate any of its powers or functions to any
committee so appointed, with or without restrictions or conditions as
the Board thinks fit.

 (3) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
appointed under this section and the number of those members
necessary to form a quorum are to be fixed by the Board.

 (4) A committee appointed under this section may include persons
who are not members of the Board.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                    Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.            Practitioners Act 2000                          10

                    PART 3

            REGISTRATION OF TRADITIONAL
          CHINESE MEDICINE PRACTITIONERS

Registrar of Board

 11.—(1) There must be a chief executive of the Board called the
Registrar of the Board, whose appointment and removal must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Registrar
during any period, or during all periods, when the Registrar —

(a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

(b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
     office.

                                                                                                  [5/2018]

Register of Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners

 12.—(1) In addition to duties under the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Registrar must keep a Register of Traditional Chinese
Medicine Practitioners which must —

       (a) consist of such parts as the Board may determine; and

       (b) contain in the appropriate part the following particulars of
            every registered person:

               (i) his or her name and address;

              (ii) the date of his or her registration;

             (iii) the qualification by virtue of which he or she is
                   registered and the date he or she obtained that
                   qualification; and

             (iv) any other particulars that the Board may determine.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Registrar is responsible for the maintenance and custody of
the Register.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

11  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) A registered person must inform the Registrar in writing of any
change in the registered person’s name, working address, residential
address, or any other particulars that may be prescribed, within
28 days of the change.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (5) A person who makes a report of a change in his or her residential
address under section 10 of the National Registration Act 1965 is
deemed to have complied with subsection (3) relating to residential
address on the date on which the person makes the report.

Alteration of Register

 13. The Registrar must —

       (a) insert in the Register any alteration to the name, address or
            other particulars of any registered person which may come
            to the Registrar’s knowledge;

       (b) correct any error in any entry in the Register which may
            come to the Registrar’s knowledge;

       (c) remove from the Register the name of any person —

               (i) whose registration is cancelled under any provision
                   of this Act; or

              (ii) who is deceased; and

       (d) insert in the Register any alteration to the qualifications or
            any additional qualifications of a registered person.

Prescribed practices of traditional Chinese medicine

 14.—(1) The Minister may from time to time, by order in the
Gazette, declare any type of practice of traditional Chinese medicine
as a prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine if the
Minister is of the opinion that it is in the public interest for that type of
practice of traditional Chinese medicine to be regulated under this
Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    12

 (2) Any person who desires to carry out any prescribed practice of
traditional Chinese medicine must apply for registration to the Board
in accordance with the regulations made under this section.

 (3) The Board may, subject to the regulations made under this
section, register a person to carry out any prescribed practice of
traditional Chinese medicine.

 (4) The Minister may, in respect of each prescribed practice of
traditional Chinese medicine, make regulations to provide for or with
respect to the following matters:

(a) different classes of registration;

(b) the form and manner of application, and the application
     fee, for each class of registration;

          (c) the qualifications and other requirements for each class of
              registration;

(d) the conditions and duration of each class of registration;

          (e) the circumstances in which a class of registration may be
              altered or renewed and the fees payable in respect thereof;

          (f) the course, qualifying examination and evaluation for the
              purpose of any class of registration, the fees payable for
              that course, examination and evaluation, and the conditions
              upon which an applicant may be exempted from that
              course, examination or evaluation;

(g) the practice and conduct of registered persons, including
     the carrying out of the prescribed practice of traditional
     Chinese medicine, the use of any means of giving publicity
     to their practice and the use of titles and qualifications;

(h) the exemption of persons or classes of persons from
     registration;

          (i) incidental, supplementary or transitional matters in respect
              of the declaration of any type of practice of traditional
              Chinese medicine as a prescribed practice of traditional
              Chinese medicine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

13  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

Refusal of registration

 15.—(1) The Board may refuse to register any applicant for the
carrying out of any prescribed practice of traditional Chinese
medicine who —

    (a) in the opinion of the Board, may not be registered in
         accordance with the regulations made under section 14(4);

    (b) in the opinion of the Board, is not of good reputation and
         character; or

    (c) fails to satisfy the Board that the applicant is able to
        effectively and safely carry out that prescribed practice of
        traditional Chinese medicine.

 (2) Where the Board refuses to register an applicant, the Board must
by written notice inform the applicant of the refusal.

 (3) Any person who is aggrieved by any refusal of the Board under
subsection (1) may, within 30 days of the notice given under
subsection (2), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Certificate of registration

 16.—(1) Upon the registration of a person, the Board shall grant to
the person a certificate of registration and specify in the certificate the
prescribed practice or practices of traditional Chinese medicine for
which the person is registered.

 (2) A person whose registration is cancelled or suspended under
section 19 must surrender his or her certificate of registration in
respect of that registration to the Board within 14 days of being
notified by the Board of the cancellation or suspension.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

Practising certificate

 17.—(1) A registered person who desires to obtain a practising
certificate for the prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    14

for which he or she is registered must apply to the Board in the form
and manner that the Board may prescribe.

(2) The application must be accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (3) A practising certificate is valid for the period that the Board may
determine.

 (4) An application for the renewal of a practising certificate must be
made no later than 30 days before the expiry of the practising
certificate and must be made in the form and manner that the Board
may prescribe.

 (5) A registered person who applies for a practising certificate later
than 30 days before the expiry of the practising certificate is liable to
pay to the Board the late application fee that the Board may prescribe.

 (6) The Board may refuse to grant or renew a practising certificate
to a registered person if the registered person fails to comply with any
prescribed requirements relating to —

(a) continuing professional education for the practice of
     traditional Chinese medicine; or

       (b) any other aspect of the practice of traditional Chinese
            medicine.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (7) A practising certificate issued to a registered person is deemed
to be cancelled when —

(a) the registration of the registered person is cancelled or
     suspended under section 19 or 26A; or

       (b) an interim order against the registered person is confirmed
            by the Board under section 26H(8)(a).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (8) A person whose practising certificate is deemed to be cancelled
under subsection (7) must surrender the practising certificate to the
Board no later than the 14th day after the cancellation of the
practising certificate.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

15  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (8) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

List of registered traditional Chinese medicine practitioners
with practising certificates

 18. The Registrar must publish, in the manner that the Board
considers will secure adequate publicity to members of the public, a
list of the names, practice addresses, qualifications, classes of
registration and dates of qualifications and registration of all
registered persons who have in force a practising certificate.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Power of Board to cancel registration, etc.

 19.—(1) The Board may cancel the registration of a registered
person if the Board is satisfied that the registered person —

       (a) has obtained his or her registration by a fraudulent or
            incorrect statement;

       (b) has had any of his or her qualifications by virtue of which
            he or she was registered withdrawn or cancelled by the
            authority through which it was acquired or by which it was
            awarded;

       (c) has had his or her registration in any other country for the
            practice of traditional Chinese medicine, or for the
            prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine to
            which the registration relates, withdrawn, suspended or
            cancelled;

       (d) has ceased to carry on the prescribed practice of traditional
            Chinese medicine for which he or she is registered;

       (e) has failed to comply with any condition to which his or her
            registration is subject;

        (f) has contravened any regulation made under this Act
            relating to the practice and conduct of registered persons
            that applies to him or her;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    16

(g) has been convicted of an offence in Singapore or elsewhere
     involving fraud or dishonesty;

(h) has been convicted of an offence in Singapore or elsewhere
     implying a defect in character which renders him or her
     unfit to remain on the Register;

          (i) has been guilty of any professional misconduct or
              negligence;

          (j) has failed to comply with any order of the Board under
              subsection (2)(c), (d) or (g);

          (k) has been guilty of any improper act or conduct which
              renders him or her unfit to remain on the Register; or

        (l) is unable to carry out the prescribed practice of traditional
            Chinese medicine for which he or she is registered safely
            or effectively by reason of a mental or physical condition.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) Where a registered person is liable to have his or her registration
cancelled on any of the grounds referred to in subsection (1)(e) to (k),
the Board may, instead of cancelling the registered person’s
registration, take one or more of the following measures:

(a) caution or censure the registered person;

(b) issue a letter of advice to the registered person;

          (c) order the registered person to give an undertaking, on such
              terms as the Board thinks fit, to abstain from the conduct
              that is the subject of a complaint against, or information
              about, the registered person under section 26B;

(d) order the registered person to pay —

          (i) a penalty not exceeding $10,000; or

          (ii) a penalty not exceeding $50,000, if the act or
               omission that is the subject of the complaint or
               information occurred on or after 1 April 2020;

          (e) alter the registered person’s class of registration;

          (f) modify the conditions of the registration of the registered
              person for a period not exceeding 3 years;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

17  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    (g) order that the complaint against, or information about, the
         registered person under section 26B be referred for
         mediation between the registered person and the person
         who made the complaint or provided the information
         (called the complainant), including ordering —

    (i) the personal attendance of the registered person and
        the complainant before a mediator specified by the
        Board; and

    (ii) the registered person to supply a report of the
         outcome of that mediation by the mediator
         mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) to the Board;

       (h) suspend the registration of the registered person for a
            period not exceeding 3 years.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) Where a registered person is liable to have his or her registration
cancelled on the ground in subsection (1)(l), the Board may, instead
of cancelling the registration of the registered person, take one or
more of the following measures:

    (a) suspend the registration of the registered person for a
         period not exceeding 12 months;

    (b) alter the registered person’s class of registration;

       (c) modify the conditions of the registration of the registered
            person for a period not exceeding 3 years.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) The Board must, before exercising its power under
subsection (1), (2) or (3) —

    (a) notify the registered person of its intention to exercise the
         power and give the registered person an opportunity to be
         heard either personally or by counsel; and

       (b) consider the findings and recommendation of the relevant
            Inquiry Committee as reported to the Board under
            section 26E(2).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) Every penalty imposed under subsection (2)(d) is recoverable as
a debt due to the Board.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    18

 (6) Subject to subsection (7) and section 21(3), a decision of the
Board made under subsection (1), (2) or (3) does not take effect until
the 31st day after the date of the decision.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (7) The Board’s decision to cancel the registration of a registered
person under subsection (1) takes immediate effect when the Board
certifies that there are reasonable grounds to believe that —

(a) there is a serious and imminent risk to the public if the
     cancellation of the registration does not take immediate
     effect; or

       (b) it is appropriate or requisite that the cancellation takes
            immediate effect in order to avoid any actual incident that
            endangers the public.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (8) Where the Board so certifies under subsection (7), the Registrar
must immediately serve a notice of the Board’s decision on the
registered person concerned.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (9) While the registration of a registered person for the carrying out
of a prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine remains
suspended, he or she is not to be regarded as a registered person in
respect of that prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine for
the purposes of this Act, but on the expiry of the registered person’s
suspension, his or her rights and privileges under this Act are revived.

 (10) Where a person is registered in respect of 2 or more prescribed
practices of traditional Chinese medicine, the Board may take action
under this section in relation to the person’s registrations for both or
all of those prescribed practices of traditional Chinese medicine
without having to institute separate proceedings.

Costs

 20.—(1) The Board may order a registered person to pay the sums
that the Board thinks fit in respect of the costs and expenses of or
incidental to any inquiry or investigation conducted or action taken
against the registered person where the Board —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

19  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) cancels the registration of the registered person under
         section 19(1);

    (b) takes any action against the registered person under
         section 19(2) or (3); or

       (c) confirms an interim order made against the registered
            person under section 26H(8)(a).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
the sums ordered to be paid under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Such sums are recoverable as a debt due to the Board.

(4) The costs and expenses mentioned in subsection (1) include —

    (a) the costs and expenses of any assessor or advocate and
         solicitor appointed by the Board for any proceedings
         before an Inquiry Committee;

    (b) any reasonable expenses that the Board may pay to
         witnesses; and

    (c) any other reasonable expenses that are necessary for the
        conduct of the proceedings before the Inquiry Committee.

                                                                                                      [8/2019]

Appeal

 21.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Board
under section 19(1), (2) or (3) may, within 30 days of the date of the
decision or within any further period that the General Division of the
High Court allows, appeal to the General Division of the High Court
against the decision.

                                                                                                 [8/2019; 40/2019]

 (2) There is no appeal from a decision of the General Division of
the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) Where a person appeals to the General Division of the High
Court against the Board’s decision mentioned in subsection (1), the
decision, if not certified under section 19(7), takes effect only
when —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    20

(a) the decision is confirmed by the General Division of the
     High Court;

(b) the appeal is for any reason dismissed by the General
     Division of the High Court; or

          (c) the appeal is withdrawn.

                                        [8/2019; 40/2019]

Conviction final and conclusive

 22. The Board in taking action under section 19, and the General
Division of the High Court on appeal from an order of the Board
under section 21, are to accept the conviction of a registered person
for a criminal offence as final and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Restoration of registration

 23.—(1) A person whose registration has been cancelled under
section 19 or 26A may apply to the Board for the person’s name to be
re‑registered.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) The Board may, after considering all relevant circumstances,
and upon the compliance by the applicant of all conditions imposed
by the Board (if any) and the payment of the prescribed fee,
re‑register the applicant.

 (3) No application for re-registration may be made to the Board —

       (a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the
            cancellation; and

       (b) more than once in any period of 12 months.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

21  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    OFFENCES

Unlawful engagement in prescribed practice of traditional
Chinese medicine

24.—(1) A person must not —

    (a) carry out any prescribed practice of traditional Chinese
         medicine; or

    (b) advertise or otherwise hold himself or herself out to be
         qualified to carry out any prescribed practice of traditional
         Chinese medicine,

unless he or she is a qualified person in respect of that prescribed
practice of traditional Chinese medicine and he or she carries out that
prescribed practice in accordance with the conditions of his or her
registration prescribed under section 14(4).

 (2) A person must not employ any person who is not a qualified
person in respect of a prescribed practice of traditional Chinese
medicine to carry out that prescribed practice of traditional Chinese
medicine.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) are subject to any transitional or saving
provisions in any regulations made under section 14(4).

 (4) Any person who acts in contravention of subsection (1) or (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (2), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

    (a) the accused did not know that the person the accused
         employed was not a qualified person in respect of the
         prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine in
         question; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    22

(b) the accused had exercised due diligence to ascertain if the
     person was a qualified person.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, “qualified person”, in relation
to a prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine, means a
person who is —

(a) registered to carry out; and

(b) has in force a practising certificate which authorises the
     person to carry out,

the prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine.

Recovery of fees or charges

 25. A person is not entitled to demand, claim, accept, receive, retain
or sue for or recover any fee or charge in any court for any act done in
contravention of section 24.

Fraudulent registration, etc.

 26. Any person who —

       (a) procures or attempts to procure registration or a certificate
            of registration or a practising certificate, by knowingly
            making or producing or causing to be made or produced
            any false or fraudulent declaration, certificate, application
            or representation, whether in writing or otherwise;

       (b) wilfully makes or causes to be made any false entry in the
            Register;

       (c) forges or alters a certificate of registration or practising
            certificate;

       (d) fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine a certificate of
            registration or practising certificate which he or she knows
            or has reason to believe is forged or altered; or

       (e) buys, sells or fraudulently obtains a certificate of
            registration or practising certificate,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

23  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    PART 4A

    DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AND INQUIRIES

    Division 1 — Voluntary cancellation, suspension, etc.

Voluntary cancellation, suspension, etc.

 26A.—(1) A registered person may request the Board in writing to
take one or more of the actions in subsection (2) if the registered
person believes that —

    (a) the registered person’s fitness to practise the prescribed
         practice of traditional Chinese medicine that he or she is
         registered to carry out is impaired by reason of his or her
         mental or physical condition; or

       (b) the quality of the professional services provided by the
            registered person does not meet the standard which is
            reasonable to expect of a traditional Chinese medicine
            practitioner carrying out the prescribed practice of
            traditional Chinese medicine that the registered person is
            registered to carry out.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) Upon receiving a request under subsection (1), the Board may,
with the agreement of the registered person, do one or more of the
following:

    (a) cancel the registration of the registered person;

    (b) suspend the registration of the registered person for a
         period not exceeding 3 years;

    (c) alter the registered person’s class of registration;

       (d) modify the conditions of the registration of the registered
            person for a period not exceeding 3 years.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) However, the Board must not take any action under
subsection (2) in relation to a registered person if —

    (a) the Board believes that there is evidence of any matter in
         section 19(1)(g), (h), (i) or (k); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    24

(b) any inquiry under Division 2 has started and is pending
     against the registered person.

                                                                                                  [8/2019]

         Division 2 — Inquiries into complaints against and
                    information on registered persons

Complaints against registered persons

 26B.—(1) A person (whether or not a member or an employee of
the Board) may make a complaint against, or provide information
about, any registered person to the Board touching on any matter
mentioned in section 19(1).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) Every complaint against, or information about, any registered
person mentioned in subsection (1) must —

       (a) be in writing; and

       (b) if the complaint or information relates to a matter in
            section 19(1)(e), (f), (i), (k) or (l), be supported by a
            statutory declaration unless the complaint or information is
            made or provided by a public officer or a member or an
            employee of the Board in his or her capacity as a public
            officer or such a member or an employee.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Review of complaints and information

 26C.—(1) Subject to section 26H, the Board must —

       (a) within 2 weeks after receiving any complaint against, or
            information about, a registered person under section 26B,
            start to review the complaint or information; and

       (b) complete its review of the complaint or information within
            3 months after starting the review.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) The Board may, in the course of a review under subsection (1),
require any of the following persons to answer any inquiry or provide
any record that the Board considers relevant for the purpose of the
review:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

25  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) the person who made the complaint against, or provided
         the information about, the registered person;

    (b) the registered person.

                                                              [8/2019]

 (3) The Board may dismiss any complaint or information where the
Board is unanimously of the opinion that the complaint or
information is frivolous, vexatious, misconceived or lacking in
substance.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) Where a complaint against, or information about, a registered
person is not dismissed under subsection (3), the Board must refer the
complaint or information to an Inquiry Committee.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Withdrawal of complaints and information

 26D.—(1) Where a complaint against, or information about, a
registered person is withdrawn, the Board or an Inquiry Committee
(as the case may be) must proceed under this Part as if the complaint
had been made, or the information had been provided, by a member
of the Board.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) The Board may, despite the withdrawal —

       (a) take any action mentioned in section 26C;

       (b) where the withdrawal takes place before the conclusion of
            an inquiry under section 26E into the complaint or
            information — order that the inquiry into the complaint
            or information continue;

       (c) where the withdrawal takes place before the Board makes
            any decision under section 19 — make any decision under
            section 19(1), (2) or (3) that the Board thinks fit; or

       (d) where the withdrawal takes place before the Board makes
            an interim order under section 26H(1) — make the interim
            order if the Board thinks fit.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    26

Inquiries by Inquiry Committees

 26E.—(1) An Inquiry Committee must, within 2 weeks starting on
the date the Board refers any complaint against, or information about,
a registered person to the Inquiry Committee, start its inquiry into the
complaint or information.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) An Inquiry Committee must complete its inquiry into the
complaint or information, and report its findings and
recommendation to the Board, no later than 6 months starting on
the date the complaint or information is referred to the Inquiry
Committee, or within any extension of time under subsection (3) if
granted.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) The Chairperson may grant in writing an extension of time to
any Inquiry Committee which is unable to complete its inquiry into,
and report its findings in respect of, any complaint against, or
information about, any registered person within the 6‑month period
specified in subsection (2).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) For the purposes of an inquiry under this Part, an Inquiry
Committee —

(a) must direct one or more investigators to investigate into the
     facts and circumstances of the complaint or information in
     accordance with section 26F; and

       (b) must give the registered person an opportunity of
            appearing before the Inquiry Committee (whether in
            person or represented by counsel) to be heard on the
            complaint against, or information about, that registered
            person.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) Where, in the course of an inquiry on a matter other than that in
section 19(1)(l), it appears to the Inquiry Committee that a registered
person’s fitness to practise the prescribed practice of traditional
Chinese medicine that he or she is registered to carry out may be
impaired by reason of his or her mental or physical condition —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

27  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) the Inquiry Committee must immediately refer the matter
         to the Board;

    (b) the Board must refer the matter to a different Inquiry
         Committee; and

    (c) the Inquiry Committee mentioned in paragraph (b) must
        conduct an inquiry into the registered person’s fitness to
        practise in accordance with this Part.

                                                                                                      [8/2019]

Duties of investigator in inquiries

 26F.—(1) An investigator directed by an Inquiry Committee under
section 26E(4)(a) to investigate into the facts and circumstances of
any complaint against, or information about, a registered person must
give written notice of the complaint or information to that registered
person.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must include copies of the
complaint or information, and of any statutory declaration that has
been made in support of the complaint or information.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) An investigator mentioned in subsection (1) must, upon
completing the investigation, submit a report on the findings of the
investigation (called in this section the investigation report) to the
Inquiry Committee that directed the investigator to carry out the
investigation.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) The investigation report must include any written explanation
given by the registered person after receiving a notice under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) Where an investigator, in the course of an investigation in
respect of a registered person, receives any information touching on
the conduct, mental or physical condition or professional
performance —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
              Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.      Practitioners Act 2000                                28

(a) of the same registered person (whether or not the
     information also relates to another registered person),
     which is outside the subject matter of the complaint or
     information the investigator is directed under
     section 26E(4)(a) to investigate; or

(b) of another registered person,

which may give rise to proceedings under this Part, the investigator
must prepare and submit to the Board a report of the information
received.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (6) Upon the Board receiving the report mentioned in
subsection (5), section 26C applies as if the report is information
received by the Board about a registered person.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Post‑inquiry

 26G.—(1) A report which is required by section 26E(2) must
contain —

(a) the findings of the Inquiry Committee in respect of the
     complaint against, or information about, the registered
     person concerned; and

(b) a recommendation to the Board —

          (i) to take any action mentioned in section 19(1), (2)
              or (3); or

          (ii) to dismiss the complaint or information.

                                                                    [8/2019]

 (2) The Board may, after considering the report of the Inquiry
Committee required by section 26E(2) —

(a) take any action mentioned in section 19(1), (2) or (3) as the
     Board thinks fit;

(b) dismiss the complaint against, or information about, the
     registered person concerned; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

29  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

       (c) refer the complaint or information back to the Inquiry
            Committee for reconsideration or a further report on those
            matters that the Board may specify.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) Where the Board refers a complaint or information back to the
Inquiry Committee under subsection (2)(c), the Inquiry
Committee —

    (a) must submit its response or further report to the Board
         within 8 weeks, or any longer period that the Chairperson
         allows in writing, starting on the date of the Board’s
         referral under subsection (2)(c); and

       (b) for the purpose of paragraph (a), may direct an investigator
            to conduct any further investigations into the matter that
            may be necessary in accordance with section 26F.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) Upon receiving the Inquiry Committee’s response or further
report under subsection (3), the Board must proceed in accordance
with subsection (2)(a) or (b).

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) Where, in the course of its inquiry, an Inquiry Committee
receives any information touching on the conduct of the registered
person concerned which discloses an offence under this Act or its
subsidiary legislation or any other written law, the Inquiry Committee
must record the information and report it to the Board.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

                        Division 3 — Interim orders

Interim orders

 26H.—(1) Where it appears to the Board that a registered person
must without delay stop carrying out any prescribed practice of
traditional Chinese medicine because there are reasonable grounds to
believe that —

       (a) there is a serious and imminent risk to the public if there is
            no such stoppage; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    30

(b) it is appropriate or requisite that an interim order be made
     in order to avoid any actual incident that endangers the
     public,

the Board may, instead of proceeding under Division 2, make an
interim order.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) An interim order —

(a) must require the registered person to whom it relates to
     stop carrying out the prescribed practice of traditional
     Chinese medicine that the registered person is registered to
     carry out;

(b) takes effect at the time, being the earliest practicable time,
     specified in the interim order; and

          (c) may be revoked at any time by the Board.

                                                                    [8/2019]

 (3) In determining whether it is appropriate or requisite that an
interim order be made against a registered person, the Board must
have regard, in particular, to —

(a) the extent to which the registered person or any other
     person is likely to sustain harm or damage; and

(b) the nature and likely consequences of any such harm or
     damage,

if the registered person continues to carry out the prescribed practice
of traditional Chinese medicine the registered person is registered to
carry out before a decision under section 26G(2)(a) or (b) is made.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) Subject to subsections (5) to (8), the Board may confirm an
interim order made against a registered person, with or without
modifications, if the Board is satisfied that it continues to be
necessary to prevent the registered person from carrying out the
prescribed practice of traditional Chinese medicine that the registered
person is registered to carry out.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) Before the Board confirms an interim order, the Board must —

(a) refer the interim order to an Inquiry Committee; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

31  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) give written notice to the registered person concerned —

    (i) stating that the Board proposes to confirm the interim
        order and setting out its effect;

    (ii) setting out the facts which, in the Board’s opinion,
         justify the confirmation of the interim order; and

             (iii) specifying the period (being at least 30 days starting
                   on the date of service of the notice) within which the
                   registered person may make representations or
                   objections with respect to the proposed
                   confirmation and modifications (if any) to the
                   Inquiry Committee.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (6) Where the Board refers an interim order to an Inquiry
Committee under subsection (5)(a) —

    (a) the Inquiry Committee must give the registered person an
         opportunity of appearing before the Inquiry Committee
         (whether in person or represented by counsel) to be heard
         on the proposed confirmation and modifications (if any) of
         the interim order; and

       (b) sections 26E (except subsection (4)(b)), 26F and 26G(1)(a)
            apply with the necessary modifications.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (7) The Inquiry Committee mentioned in subsection (5)(a) may
recommend that the Board confirm or not confirm the interim order,
with or without modifications, after considering —

    (a) the facts which, in the Board’s opinion, justify the
         confirmation of the interim order; and

       (b) any representations or objections made by the registered
            person concerned with respect to the proposed
            confirmation and modifications (if any) of the interim
            order.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (8) The Board may, after considering the recommendation of the
Inquiry Committee under subsection (7) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    32

(a) confirm the interim order, with or without modifications;
     or

(b) not confirm the interim order.

                                                                    [8/2019]

 (9) In this section, “interim order” means an order which, if not
confirmed in accordance with subsection (8), ceases to have effect at
the end of the period (not exceeding 18 months) that the order
specifies.

                    Division 4 — Inquiry Committees

Appointment of Inquiry Committees

 26I.—(1) Subject to this section, the Board may appoint from any
persons one or more Inquiry Committees to inquire under section 26E
into any complaint against, or information about, any registered
person.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) An investigator directed by an Inquiry Committee under
section 26E(4)(a) to investigate into the facts and circumstances of
any complaint against, or information about, a registered person must
not be appointed a member of an Inquiry Committee inquiring into
the same complaint or information.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) To avoid doubt, a public officer in the Ministry of Health is not
disqualified from being appointed a member of an Inquiry Committee
by reason only that the person is such a public officer.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) An Inquiry Committee may be appointed in connection with
one or more matters or for a fixed period of time set by the Board.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) The production of any written instrument purporting to be
signed by the Board and making an appointment under this section is
evidence that the appointment has been duly made.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

33  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

Revoking appointment of Inquiry Committees, etc.

26J.—(1) Subject to this section, the Board may —

    (a) dissolve an Inquiry Committee, where the Board is
         satisfied that more than half of the members of the
         Inquiry Committee are unable to carry out their duties
         properly and effectively because of any conflict of interest
         or potential conflict of interest on the part of each member
         concerned; or

       (b) remove a member of an Inquiry Committee, and appoint
            another person in place of that member, where the Board is
            satisfied that the member concerned is unable to carry out
            his or her duties properly and effectively because of any
            conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) Where any vacancy occurs in any Inquiry Committee because
of the death or illness of, or other cause preventing, a member of the
Inquiry Committee from continuing his or her duties on that Inquiry
Committee, the Board may fill that vacancy by making an
appointment in accordance with section 26I.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) The production of any written instrument purporting to be
signed by the Board and —

    (a) dissolving an Inquiry Committee mentioned in
         subsection (1)(a); or

    (b) removing or replacing a member of an Inquiry Committee
         mentioned in subsection (1)(b),

is evidence that the dissolution, removal or replacement (as the case
may be) has been duly made.

Confidentiality of information

 26K.—(1) A person to whom this section applies must not disclose
any information contained in any document as may have come to the
person’s knowledge in the course of any inquiry under this Part unless
the disclosure is made —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.                 Practitioners Act 2000                     34

(a) under or for the purpose of administering this Act or its
     subsidiary legislation or the Infectious Diseases Act 1976;
     or

       (b) for any other purpose with the consent of the person to
            whom the information relates.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) A person to whom this section applies who contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) This section applies to —

(a) an investigator directed by any Inquiry Committee under
     section 26E(4)(a) to investigate any complaint against, or
     information about, a registered person;

(b) a member of any Inquiry Committee; and

          (c) a member.

                                                                    [8/2019]

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Examinations Committee

 27.—(1) The Board may appoint a committee, called the
Examinations Committee, which consists of any number of
members that the Board may determine.

 (2) The functions of the Examinations Committee are —

       (a) to determine the standard and content of qualifying
            examinations for the purpose of registration under
            section 14;

       (b) to organise and conduct the examinations; and

       (c) to issue certificates to persons who have passed the
            examinations.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               Traditional Chinese Medicine

35             Practitioners Act 2000                         2020 Ed.

Investigators

 28. The Board may, in writing, appoint a member or an employee of
the Board, a public officer or any other person as an investigator,
subject to any conditions and limitations that the Board may specify.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Powers for enforcement purposes

 29.—(1) This section provides for the enforcement powers which
an investigator may exercise for any of the following purposes:

       (a) investigating into an offence under this Act or its
            subsidiary legislation;

       (b) investigating into any complaint or information under
            Part 4A;

       (c) determining whether any information provided to the
            Board under this Act or its subsidiary legislation is correct.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), the following are the enforcement
powers that an investigator may exercise in relation to a place for a
purpose in subsection (1):

       (a) to enter the place;

       (b) to search the place and any thing in or on the place;

       (c) to examine or observe any activity conducted in or on the
            place;

       (d) to inspect and examine any thing in or on the place;

       (e) to make any still or moving image or any recording of the
            place or any thing in or on the place;

        (f) to inspect any document or record in the place and to take
            extracts from, or make copies of, any such document or
            record;

       (g) to take into or onto the place any equipment and materials
            that the investigator requires for the purpose of exercising
            enforcement powers in relation to the place;

       (h) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    36

          (i) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
              thing is found in or on the place during the exercise of
              enforcement powers and the investigator believes on
              reasonable grounds that —

          (i) the thing is evidential material, or is intended to be
              used for the purpose of contravening any provision
              of this Act or its subsidiary legislation or any
              condition of the registration of any registered
              person; and

          (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
               it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
               warrant to seize the thing is obtained;

          (j) to seize any document, record or thing which is found in or
              on the place during the exercise of enforcement powers
              that the investigator reasonably suspects is evidential
              material;

      (k) to require any person found in or on the place to answer
           any question (to the best of that person’s knowledge,
           information and belief) and to provide any document,
           record or information.

                                                                                                           [8/2019]

(3) In addition, an investigator may —

(a) for any purpose in subsection (1), require any person in
     Singapore whom the investigator has reason to believe to
     be acquainted with any facts or circumstances relevant to
     that purpose to attend before the investigator to answer any
     question (to the best of that person’s knowledge,
     information and belief) and to provide any document,
     record or information; or

(b) for the purpose in subsection (1)(b), invite the registered
     person, within the period specified in the written notice
     mentioned in section 26F(1) (which must be at least
     21 days starting on the date of the notice), to give to the
     investigator any written explanation the registered person
     wishes to provide.

                                                                                                  [8/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

37  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

(4) However, an investigator is not authorised by this section —

    (a) to enter a place;

    (b) to search a place or any thing in or on a place; or

    (c) to seize any thing in or on a place,

for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(b) unless —

    (d) the occupier of the place consents to the entry, search or
         seizure, as the case may be;

    (e) the investigator believes on reasonable grounds that there
        is an imminent or immediate danger of serious bodily
        injury or death to any individual who is receiving or is
        about to receive any treatment at the place; or

        (f) the entry, search or seizure (as the case may be) is made
            under a warrant of a court.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) The power under subsection (2)(h) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any place includes the power —

    (a) to use a disc, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
         place and can be used with the equipment or in association
         with the equipment;

    (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to put the
         relevant data in documentary form and remove the
         documents so produced from the place; and

    (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to
        transfer the relevant data to a disc, tape or other storage
        device that —

    (i) is brought to the place for the exercise of the power;
        or

    (ii) is in or on the place and the use of which for that
         purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
         the place,

    (c) and to remove the disc, tape or other storage device from
        that place.

                                                                                                      [8/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    38

 (6) The power under subsection (2)(i) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any place
includes the power —

(a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
     other means; or

       (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with the thing.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (7) The power under subsection (2)(j) to seize any document,
record or thing under warrant includes the power to seize any
document, record or thing which is similarly so found that is not
evidential material of the kind specified in the warrant if —

(a) in the course of searching for the kind of evidential
     material specified in the warrant, the investigator finds the
     document, record or thing; and

       (b) the document, record or thing is evidential material for
            another offence under this Act or its subsidiary legislation.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (8) However, a person is not subject to a requirement under
subsection (2)(k) or (3)(a) if the person —

(a) does not possess the document, record or information
     required; or

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person to
            obtain the document, record or information required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (9) A statement made by a person in answer to a question under
subsection (2)(k) or (3)(a) must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that the person understands; and

(d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                  [8/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

39  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

 (10) An investigator may be assisted by other individuals in
exercising enforcement powers under this section if that assistance
is necessary and reasonable.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (11) In this section, “place” means any premises which are used, or
in respect of which there are reasonable grounds to believe are being
or have been used, by any person —

    (a) to carry out any prescribed practice of traditional Chinese
         medicine; or

    (b) to keep any document, record or thing used in connection
         with the carrying out of any prescribed practice of
         traditional Chinese medicine.

                                                                                                      [8/2019]

False information and obstruction of performance of official
duties

 30.—(1) If —

       (a) a person provides a document or record or gives
            information (whether orally or in writing) to an
            investigator;

       (b) the document or record is provided, or the statement is
            made or the information is given, for or in connection with
            any purpose under this Act or its subsidiary legislation;

       (c) the document, record, statement or information is false or
            misleading, or the statement or information omits any
            matter or thing without which the statement or information
            (as the case may be) is misleading; and

       (d) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know, that the
            document or record is false or misleading, or that the
            statement or information is as described in paragraph (c),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    40

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the document, record, statement
or information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if
the statement or information does not omit any matter or thing
without which the statement or information (as the case may be) is
misleading in a material particular.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) A person who knowingly obstructs or prevents, or attempts to
obstruct or prevent, an investigator in the discharge of the
investigator’s powers or duties under this Act or its subsidiary
legislation shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) A person —

(a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
     document, record or information which the person has
     been required by or under section 29(2)(k) or (3)(a) to
     provide; or

(b) who, in providing any document, record or information
     required by or under section 29(2)(k) or (3)(a), makes any
     statement which the person knows or ought reasonably to
     know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is false or
     misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person under section 29(2)(k) or (3)(a) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

41  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

 (6) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (5), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to produce any
document or record, provide any information or answer any question
if doing so might tend to incriminate that person.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Disposal and forfeiture of seized documents, records and things

 30A.—(1) Any document, record or thing seized under
section 29(2)(j) must —

    (a) where the document, record or thing is produced in any
         criminal trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364
         of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010;

    (b) where the owner of the document, record or thing consents
         to its disposal, be deemed to be forfeited; or

    (c) in any other case —

    (i) be returned to the owner; or

    (ii) be reported to a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                              [8/2019]

 (2) Where the seizure of any document, record or thing under
section 29(2)(j) is reported to a Magistrate’s Court under
subsection (1)(c)(ii), the Magistrate’s Court may order the
document, record or thing —

    (a) to be forfeited; or

    (b) to be disposed of in the manner that the Magistrate’s Court
         thinks fit.

                                                                                                      [8/2019]

 (3) Subject to any order to the contrary by the Magistrate’s Court,
any document, record or thing forfeited or deemed to be forfeited
under this section must be delivered to the Board and must be
disposed of in the manner that the Registrar thinks fit.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) This section does not affect any right to retain or dispose of any
property which may exist in law apart from this section.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.        Practitioners Act 2000                              42

Funds of Board

 31.—(1) All fees, penalties and other moneys payable under this
Act that are not paid are recoverable as a debt due to the Board.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), all fees and other moneys collected or
recovered by the Board under this Act must be paid to the Board.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (3) All penalties and composition sums collected by the Board
under this Act must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

 (4) All moneys received by the Board or the Registrar must be paid
into the funds of the Board.

 (5) The costs and expenses of and incidental to the performance of
the functions of the Board and any committee appointed by the Board
must be paid by the Board out of its funds.

 (6) The Minister may pay into the funds of the Board any sum of
money out of moneys to be provided by Parliament that the Minister
may determine.

Assessor to Board

 32.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Board and any committee
appointed by the Board, the Board may appoint an assessor to the
Board who must be an advocate and solicitor of at least 10 years’
standing.

 (2) The assessor must not participate or sit in any deliberations of
the Board or its committees unless invited to do so, and the assessor’s
participation must be limited only to questions of law arising from the
proceedings.

 (3) The Board may pay to the assessor such remuneration, to be
paid as part of the expenses of the Board, as the Board may determine.

No action against Board, etc., in absence of bad faith

 33. No action or legal proceedings shall lie against the Board, any
committee appointed by the Board, or any member or employee of
the Board or committee, for any act or thing done under this Act

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

43  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

unless it is proved to the court that the act or thing was done in bad
faith or with malice.

Service of documents

 34.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no
            address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
            or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
            authorised representative, of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address; or

       (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.               Practitioners Act 2000                       44

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
     after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered); or

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

“authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
   than a limited liability partnership), means any person
   authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
   partnership;

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                 Traditional Chinese Medicine

45               Practitioners Act 2000                       2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes an order or a notice permitted or required
       by or under this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                         [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Composition of offences

 34A.—(1) The Board may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

    (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
         prescribed for the offence;

    (b) $2,000.

                                                              [8/2019]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                             [8/2019]

Exemption

 35. The Minister may, subject to such conditions as the Minister
thinks fit, by order exempt any person or class of persons from all or
any of the provisions of this Act.

Regulations

 36.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may, with
the approval of the Minister, make any regulations that are necessary
or expedient to give effect to the provisions and purposes of this Act
and for the due administration of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Traditional Chinese Medicine

2020 Ed.  Practitioners Act 2000                                    46

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made to —

(a) provide for the duties of the Registrar;

(b) provide for the form of the Register and the mode in which
     it must be kept;

          (c) regulate the procedure of any committee appointed by the
              Board and the conduct of any proceedings of the
              committee;

(d) provide for payment of fees to any member or any
     committee appointed by the Board;

          (e) provide for the appointment of members to and
              composition of an Inquiry Committee;

          (f) prescribe the procedures to be followed by, and regulate
              the conduct of, any inquiry by an Inquiry Committee,
              including, for the purposes of any hearing before the
              Inquiry Committee —

          (i) enabling the Inquiry Committee to order and give
              discovery and inspection of documents; and

          (ii) enabling any party to the inquiry to issue subpoenas
               to testify or subpoenas to produce documents;

(g) regulate the removal and restoration of names in the
     Register;

(h) provide for the grant and renewal of practising certificates,
     including prescribing requirements relating to continuing
     professional education for, and any other aspect of, the
     practice of traditional Chinese medicine for such grant and
     renewal;

          (i) regulate the professional practice, etiquette, conduct and
              discipline of registered persons;

          (j) prescribe the forms necessary for the administration of this
              Act;

          (k) prescribe the fees and other charges for the purposes of this
              Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Traditional Chinese Medicine

47  Practitioners Act 2000                                    2020 Ed.

    (l) provide that any person who contravenes any regulation
        made under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall
        be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
        imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
        both; and

    (m) prescribe any other matter that is necessary or authorised to
         be prescribed under this Act.

                                                                                                       [8/2019]

Amendment of Schedule

 37. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, add to or amend the
Schedule.

    THE SCHEDULE

                                  Sections 2 and 37

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE
                 PRACTITIONERS ACT 2000

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 34 of 2000 — Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act 2000

Bill                  : 30/2000

First Reading         : 9 October 2000

Second and Third Readings : 14 November 2000

Commencement          : 7 February 2001 (except sections 24
                            and 25)
                            1 January 2002 (sections 24 and 25)

2. 2001 Revised Edition — Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners Act
                                   (Chapter 333A)

Operation             : 31 December 2001

3. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 109 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 109)

4. Act 8 of 2019 — Traditional Chinese Medicine Practitioners
                          (Amendment) Act 2019

Bill                  : 2/2019

First Reading         : 14 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 11 February 2019

Commencement          : 1 April 2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      ii

5. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 29(18) and section 28(1) read with item 160 of
   the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 29(18) and
                            section 28(1) read with item 160 of the
                            Schedule)

6. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 15(16) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 15(16))

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Traditional Chinese Medicine
                                    Practitioners Act 2000

Operation             : 31 December 2021

8. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 9/2025

First Reading         : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement          : 5 December 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
         COMPARATIVE TABLE

TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE
      PRACTITIONERS ACT 2000

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                         2001 Ed.
1                               1—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
8—(4)                              (2)
                                8—(3A)
   (5)
—                                  (4)
17—(6)                          10—(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
                                17—(5A)
   (7)
   (8)                             (6)
   (9)                             (6A)
19—(3)                             (7)
   (4)                          19—(2A)
   (5)                             (3)
   (6)                             (4)
   (7)                             (5)
   (8)                             (5A)
   (9)                             (5B)
   (10)                            (6)
31—(2)                             (7)
   (3)                          31—(1A)
   (4)                             (1B)
   (5)                             (2)
   (6)                             (3)
—                                  (4)
                                   (5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                 2020 Ed.  ii
—
                                              2001 Ed.
                            38 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
