THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             COMMODITY TRADING ACT 1992

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                                  2020 Ed.

Commodity Trading Act 1992

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                              PART 1
                         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2

            COMMODITY MARKET AND CLEARING HOUSE

 4. Establishment of commodities markets
 5. Power of Board to approve commodity market
 6. Business rules
 7. Revocation of approval
 8. Establishment of clearing house
 9. Power of Board to approve clearing house
10. Appeal to Minister
11. Liabilities of commodity market and clearing house

                                        PART 3

                                      LICENCES

12. Commodity broker’s licence
13. Other licences
13A. Licence for spot commodity trading
14. Power of Board to grant licences and impose conditions, etc.
14A. Exemption from this Part
15. Grounds for refusal to grant or renew licences
16. Regulations relating to licences
17. False statements
18. Revocation of licence
19. Powers of Board in cases of misconduct, etc.
20. Effect of revocation or suspension of licence

                         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.           Commodity Trading Act 1992                        2

Section
   21. Appeal against refusal to license, etc.

                                        PART 4

                            ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT

22. Accounts to be kept by commodity brokers
23. Power of Board to appoint auditor
24. Power of auditors appointed by Board
25. Offence to destroy, alter, etc., records
26. Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate

         certain matters
27. Maintenance of books and records and furnishing accounts, etc.,

         by trading adviser and pool operator
28. Additional powers of Board in respect of auditors
29. Defamation

                                        PART 5

           CONDUCT OF COMMODITY TRADING BUSINESS

30. Segregation of customer’s funds by broker
31. Nature of pool and segregation of funds by pool operator, etc.
32. Risk disclosure
33. Offences

                                        PART 6

                               POWERS OF BOARD

34. Emergency powers
35. Fixing of position and trading limits in contracts
36. Production of records
37. Records of transactions on commodity market or clearing house
38. Information to be provided by market participants
39. [Repealed]
40. Investigations by Board
41. Inspections by Board
42. Power to issue directions

                     PART 7
                   OFFENCES

43. False trading

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
3        Commodity Trading Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

Section  Bucketing
         Dissemination of information about false trading
   44.   Manipulation of price and cornering
   45.   Employment of fraudulent or deceptive devices, etc.
   46.   Fraudulently inducing trading
   47.   Penalties
   48.   [Repealed]
   49.
   50.

                                           PART 8

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   51. Preservation of secrecy
   52. Offences by directors or managers
   53. Falsification of records by directors, employees and agents
   54. False reports
   55. Immunity of Board and its employees, etc.
   56. Offences by corporations
   57. Prohibition of use of certain titles
   58. Proceedings by whom and when to be taken and power to

            compound offences
   59. Jurisdiction of courts
   60. General penalty
   61. Exemption
   62. [Repealed]
   63. Regulations
   64. Directions by Minister
   65. Validation of acts done in anticipation of this Act

            The Schedule — Exemption

An Act for the regulation of certain types of commodity trading, and
  for matters connected therewith.

                                                                                                           [35/2007]

                                                                [27 May 1992]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.     Commodity Trading Act 1992                                   4

             PART 1                                                [22/2001]

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Commodity Trading Act 1992.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “auditor” means a public accountant within the meaning of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “Board” means the Enterprise Singapore Board established by
         section 3 of the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018;

      “business rules”, in relation to a body corporate that maintains or
         proposes to maintain a commodity market, means the rules,
         regulations and by-laws, by whatever name called, governing
         the activities and conduct of —

              (a) the body corporate and its members;

              (b) its clearing house; and

              (c) other persons in relation to the commodity market,

         whether those rules, regulations or by-laws are made by the
         body corporate or are contained in the Memorandum and
         Articles of Association of the body corporate or altered or
         supplemented by the Board;

      “clearing house”, in relation to a commodity market, means a
         body corporate that —

              (a) clears and settles commodity contracts; and

              (b) makes adjustments to the contractual obligations
                   arising out of those commodity contracts;

      “commodity” means any produce, item, goods or article that is
         the subject of any —

              (a) commodity forward contract;

              (b) leveraged commodity trading;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
5  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

   (c) contract made pursuant to trading in differences; or

   (d) spot commodity trading,

   and includes an index, a right or an interest in such
   commodity, and such other index, right or interest of any
   nature as the Board may, by notification in the Gazette,
   prescribe to be a commodity; but does not include any
   produce, item, goods or article that is the subject of a
   commodity futures contract and any index, right or interest in
   such produce, item, goods or article;

   “commodity broker” means a person who (whether as principal
      or agent) carries on the business of soliciting, or accepting
      orders, for the purchase or sale of any commodity by way of
      or relating to any commodity contract, whether or not the
      business is part of, or is carried on in conjunction with, any
      other business;

   “commodity broker’s representative” means a person who acts
      for, or by arrangement with, a commodity broker (other than
      a person who is a director of a corporation holding a
      commodity broker’s licence or is a person who is in the direct
      employment of a commodity broker) and who performs any
      of the functions of that commodity broker in connection with
      trading in commodity forward contracts, or in any leveraged
      commodity trading, whether the person’s remuneration is by
      way of commission or otherwise;

   “commodity contract” means —

   (a) a commodity forward contract;

   (b) any contract made pursuant to trading in differences
        with respect to a commodity, not being a commodity
        futures contract; or

   (c) any contract made pursuant to a transaction in
       leveraged commodity trading;

   “commodity forward contract” means a contract the effect of
      which is that one party agrees to deliver a specified
      commodity, or a specified quantity of a specified

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               6

          commodity, to another party at a specified future time and at a
          specified price payable at that time, but does not include a
          commodity futures contract;

“commodity futures contract” means —

          (a) a contract the effect of which is that —

          (i) one party agrees to deliver a specified
              commodity, or a specified quantity of a
              specified commodity, to another party at a
              specified future time and at a specified price
              payable at that time pursuant to the terms and
              conditions set out in the business rules of a
              futures market or pursuant to the business
              practices of a futures market; or

          (ii) the parties will discharge their obligations
               under the contract by settling the difference
               between the value of a specified quantity of a
               specified commodity agreed at the time of the
               making of the contract and at a specified future
               time, such difference being determined in
               accordance with the business rules or
               practices of the futures market at which the
               contract is made; or

          (b) such other contract or class of contracts as the Board
               may prescribe,

          and includes a futures option transaction;

“commodity market” means —

          (a) a market, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, at
               which commodity contracts are regularly made; or

          (b) an electronic system, whether operating in Singapore
               or elsewhere, through which trading in commodity
               contracts is carried out, but excludes an electronic
               facility which merely provides price or other
               information relating to commodity contracts
               (whether that facility is part of or carried on in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
7  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

   conjunction with the provision of any other
   information not related to commodity contracts)
   and which does not permit users of the facility to
   channel orders for, execute transactions in, or make
   markets in, commodity contracts;

   “commodity pool operator” means any person who carries on a
      business in the nature of a collective investment scheme
      within the meaning of section 2 of the Securities and Futures
      Act 2001 and who, in connection therewith, accepts or
      receives from other persons funds, security or property, either
      directly or through capital contributions, the sale of shares or
      other forms of security or otherwise for the purpose of trading
      in commodity contracts but does not include any person that
      the Board may prescribe;

   “commodity pool operator’s representative” means a person in
      the direct employment of, or acting for, or by arrangement
      with, a commodity pool operator, who performs for that
      commodity pool operator any of the functions of a
      commodity pool operator;

   “commodity trading adviser” means any person who —

   (a) carries on the business of advising others (directly or
        indirectly, through publications or writings, or by
        whatever means or media) on the making of
        commodity contracts, including the advisability of
        trading in any commodity contract made or to be
        made on, or subject to the business rules of, a
        commodity market;

   (b) as part of a regular business, issues or promulgates
        analyses or reports concerning the making of
        commodity contracts; or

   (c) pursuant to a contract or an arrangement with a
       customer or other person, undertakes on behalf of
       that customer or other person (whether on a
       discretionary authority or otherwise granted by the
       customer or other person) to make any commodity

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               8

          contract for the purposes of managing the client’s
          funds, but does not include —

          (i) a bank or merchant bank licensed under the
              Banking Act 1970;

          (ii) a commodity broker, commodity broker’s
               representative, commodity pool operator or
               commodity pool operator’s representative;

          (iii) a person who carries on the business of printing
                or publishing a newspaper and is the holder of a
                permit issued under the Newspaper and
                Printing Presses Act 1974 where —

          (A) insofar as the newspaper is distributed
               generally to the public it is distributed
               only to subscribers to, and purchasers of,
               the newspaper for value;

          (B) the advice is given or the analyses or
               reports are issued or promulgated only
               through that newspaper; and

          (C) that person receives no commission or
               other consideration for giving the advice
               or for issuing or promulgating the
               analyses or reports; and

          (iv) any other person that the Board may prescribe,

          if and only if the carrying on of the business by the
          abovementioned persons is solely incidental to the carrying
          on of their business;

“commodity trading adviser’s representative” means —

          (a) a person in the direct employment of, or acting for, or
               by arrangement with, a commodity trading adviser,
               who performs for that commodity trading adviser any
               of the functions of a commodity trading adviser
               (other than work ordinarily performed by
               accountants, clerks or cashiers) whether his or her

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
9  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

   remuneration is by way of salary, wages, commission
   or otherwise; and

   (b) where the commodity trading adviser is a
        corporation, includes any director, member or
        officer of the corporation who is not the holder of a
        commodity trading adviser’s licence and who
        performs for that corporation any of the functions
        of a commodity trading adviser (whether or not his or
        her remuneration is by way of salary, wages,
        commission or otherwise);

   “corporation” has the meaning given by the Companies
      Act 1967;

   “customer” means a person on whose account a commodity
      broker carries on trading in commodity contracts;

   “director” has the meaning given by the Companies Act 1967;

   “financial year” has the meaning given by the Companies
      Act 1967;

   “futures market” and “futures option transaction” have the
      meanings given to those expressions in the Securities and
      Futures Act 2001;

   “leveraged commodity trading” means —

   (a) the act of entering into or offering to enter into, or
        inducing or attempting to induce a person to enter
        into or offer to enter into, a contract or an
        arrangement on a margin basis (other than a
        commodity futures contract) whereby a person
        undertakes as determined by the terms and
        conditions of the contract or arrangement —

   (i) to make an adjustment between the person and
       another person according to whether a
       commodity is worth more or less, at a
       specified point in time;

   (ii) to pay an amount of money determined or to be
        determined by reference to the change in value

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               10

          of a commodity over a specified period of time;
          or

          (iii) to deliver to another person at an agreed future
                time an agreed amount of commodities at an
                agreed price;

          (b) the provision by any person referred to in
               paragraph (a) of any advance, credit facility or
               loan, directly or indirectly, to facilitate an act of the
               description referred to in that paragraph; or

          (c) the act of entering into or offering to enter into, or
              inducing or attempting to induce a person to enter
              into, an arrangement with another person (whether on
              a discretionary basis or otherwise) to enter into any
              contract to facilitate an act of the description referred
              to in paragraph (a) or (b);

“member” means a person who holds a membership of any class
   or description of a commodity market whether or not the
   person holds any share in the share capital of that commodity
   market;

“officer” has the meaning given by the Companies Act 1967;

“spot commodity broker” means a person whether as principal
   or agent who carries on the business of soliciting or accepting
   orders, for the purchase or sale of any commodity by way of
   spot commodity trading, whether or not the business is part
   of, or is carried on in conjunction with, any other business,
   but does not include a commodity broker;

“spot commodity broker’s representative” means a person who
   acts for, or by arrangement with, a spot commodity broker
   (other than a person who is a director of a corporation holding
   a spot commodity broker’s licence or is a person who is in the
   direct employment of a spot commodity broker) and who
   performs any of the functions of that spot commodity broker
   in connection with spot commodity trading, whether the
   person’s remuneration is by way of commission or otherwise,
   but does not include a commodity broker’s representative;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
11  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    “spot commodity pool operator” means any person who carries
       on a business in the nature of a collective investment scheme
       within the meaning of section 2 of the Securities and Futures
       Act 2001 and who, in connection therewith, accepts or
       receives from other persons funds, security or property, either
       directly or through capital contributions, the sale of shares or
       other forms of security or otherwise for the purpose of spot
       commodity trading, but does not include a commodity pool
       operator;

    “spot commodity pool operator’s representative” means a
       person in the direct employment of, or acting for, or by
       arrangement with, a spot commodity pool operator, who
       performs for that spot commodity pool operator any of the
       functions of a spot commodity pool operator, but does not
       include a commodity pool operator’s representative;

    “spot commodity trading” means the purchase or sale of a
       commodity at its current market or spot price, where it is
       intended that such transaction results in the physical delivery
       of the commodity.

                                [10/2018; 1/2020]

Application

 3. This Act does not apply to —

       (a) the Singapore Exchange Derivatives Clearing Ltd;

       (b) a person operating a clearing facility within the meaning of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001 who —

               (i) has notified the Monetary Authority of Singapore of
                   the person’s intent to operate the clearing facility
                   under section 49 of that Act; or

              (ii) is exempted under section 53 of that Act;

       (c) the holder of a capital markets services licence under the
            Securities and Futures Act 2001 in respect of leveraged
            foreign exchange trading, when acting lawfully under that
            Act,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               12

but only to the extent that the activities carried out by such person are
regulated under the Securities and Futures Act 2001.

                                    PART 2

        COMMODITY MARKET AND CLEARING HOUSE

Establishment of commodities markets

 4.—(1) No person may establish or maintain, assist in establishing
or maintaining or hold the person out as providing or maintaining any
commodity market unless the commodity market has been approved
by the Board under section 5(2).

 (2) As from 8 October 2018, subsection (1) ceases to apply in
relation to any commodity market —

       (a) that is established on or after that date; or

       (b) that was approved under subsection (1) before that date, to
            the extent that it relates to commodity forward contracts.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Power of Board to approve commodity market

 5.—(1) A body corporate may apply to the Board for approval as a
commodity market in such form and manner as may be prescribed
and the body corporate must, in connection with that application,
provide such information as the Board may require.

 (2) The Board may, in writing, approve a body corporate as a
commodity market if it is satisfied that —

       (a) the business rules of the body corporate make satisfactory
            provision for the matters referred to in section 6;

       (b) the interests of the public will be served by granting the
            application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
13  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

 (3) The Board must not refuse to approve a body corporate as a
commodity market under this section without giving the applicant an
opportunity of being heard.

Business rules

 6.—(1) The business rules of every body corporate which has
applied for approval or which has been approved as a commodity
market under section 5 must make satisfactory provision —

       (a) for the exclusion from membership of persons who are not
            of good character and high business integrity;

       (b) for the expulsion, suspension or disciplining of members
            for conduct inconsistent with just and equitable principles
            in the transaction of business, or for a contravention of the
            business rules of the proposed commodity market;

       (c) with respect to the terms and conditions under which
            commodity contracts may be made;

       (d) with respect to the clearing and other arrangements made
            and the financial conditions of the commodity market, its
            clearing house and its members are such as to provide
            reasonable assurance that all obligations arising out of any
            contracts entered into on that commodity market will be
            met;

       (e) that trading practices are fair and properly supervised;

        (f) that adequate measures have been taken to prevent
            manipulation and excessive speculation;

       (g) that adequate provision has been made to record and
            publish details of trading;

       (h) with respect to the establishment of a Compensation Fund,
            or any other scheme or system accepted by the Board,
            which would compensate customers who suffer pecuniary
            loss through the defalcation of a member, or any of its
            directors or employees, in respect of any money or other
            property that was entrusted to or received by a member, or
            a director or an employee, for or on behalf of any person or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               14

          by reason that the member was trustee of the money or
          other property; and

          (i) generally for carrying on the business of the proposed
              commodity market with due regard to the interests and
              protection of the public.

 (2) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations prescribe the manner, form and procedure for the
making of business rules of a commodity market or clearing house
and any amendment thereof; and those regulations may make
provision for the Board to disallow the whole or part of any rule or
any amendment thereto as it thinks fit.

Revocation of approval

 7.—(1) The Board may revoke any approval granted under
section 5 if —

       (a) the body corporate ceases to operate as a commodity
            market;

       (b) the body corporate is being wound up;

       (c) the body corporate is operating in a manner detrimental to
            the public interest; or

       (d) any information provided to the Board under section 5(1)
            was false or misleading in a material particular.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), a body corporate is
deemed to have ceased to operate as a commodity market if it has
ceased to operate for more than 30 days unless it has obtained the
approval of the Board to do so, or unless it has ceased to operate by
virtue of any direction issued by the Board under section 34(1)(a).

Establishment of clearing house

 8.—(1) No person may establish, maintain or provide or assist in
establishing, maintaining or providing, or hold the person out as
maintaining or providing a clearing house for a commodity market
unless the person is a body corporate approved as a clearing house
under section 9.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
15  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

 (2) As from 8 October 2018, subsection (1) ceases to apply in
relation to any clearing house —

    (a) that is established on or after that date; or

       (b) that was approved under subsection (1) before that date, to
            the extent that it relates to commodity forward contracts.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Power of Board to approve clearing house

 9.—(1) A body corporate may apply to the Board for approval as a
clearing house in such form and manner as may be prescribed and the
body corporate must, in connection with that application, provide
such information as the Board may require.

 (2) The Board may in writing approve a body corporate as a
clearing house if it is satisfied that —

       (a) the business rules of the body corporate make satisfactory
            provision relating to the registration of, and guaranteeing
            to its members of the performance of, commodity contracts
            made in a commodity market; and

       (b) the interests of the public will be served by granting the
            application.

Appeal to Minister

 10. A person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board made
under section 5, 7 or 9 may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal to
the Minister whose decision is final.

Liabilities of commodity market and clearing house

 11.—(1) A person, who is aggrieved by the failure of a commodity
market or a clearing house or any of the directors or employees of the
commodity market or clearing house to enforce its business rules or
by the contravention of this Act or any regulations made under this

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               16

Act in the enforcement of the business rules, has a right of action in
damages for the actual amount of damages suffered by that person —

(a) in any transaction that the person has entered into on or
     subject to the business rules of a commodity market; and

(b) that is directly attributable to the failure to enforce the
     business rules, or the contravention of this Act or any
     regulations made under this Act in the enforcement of the
     business rules.

 (2) No action for damages shall lie against a commodity market or a
clearing house, or any of its directors or employees under
subsection (1) unless the aggrieved person can show that, in failing
to take action or in taking such action as was taken resulting in loss to
the aggrieved person, the commodity market or the clearing house, or
any of the directors or employees, acted in bad faith.

 (3) The right of action conferred by this section is the exclusive
remedy available to any person who suffers loss as a result of an
alleged failure of a commodity market or a clearing house, or any of
its directors or employees, to enforce its business rules, or the
contravention of this Act or any regulations made under this Act in
the enforcement of the business rules.

                                    PART 3

                                  LICENCES

Commodity broker’s licence

 12.—(1) No person, whether as principal or agent, may —

       (a) carry on business as a commodity broker; or

       (b) hold the person out as carrying on such a business, unless
            the person —

               (i) is licensed as a commodity broker under this Act;
                   and

              (ii) trades in accordance with the business rules and
                   practices of a commodity market on which the
                   trading takes place.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
17  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

 (2) As from 8 October 2018, subsection (1) ceases to apply to any
person who commences business as a commodity broker on or after
that date.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Other licences

 13.—(1) Subject to section 14A, no person may act as, or hold the
person out as —

       (a) a commodity broker’s representative;

       (b) a commodity trading adviser;

       (c) a commodity trading adviser’s representative;

       (d) a commodity pool operator; or

       (e) a commodity pool operator’s representative,

unless the person is the holder of a licence granted under this Part that
authorises the person to act as such.

 (2) As from 8 October 2018, subsection (1) ceases to apply to any
person who —

       (a) in relation to subsection (1)(a), is a commodity broker’s
            representative of a commodity broker mentioned in
            section 12(2) who does not hold a transitional licence;

       (b) in relation to subsection (1)(b), commences business as a
            commodity trading adviser on or after that date;

       (c) in relation to subsection (1)(c), is a commodity trading
            adviser’s representative of a commodity trading adviser
            mentioned in paragraph (b) who does not hold a
            transitional licence;

       (d) in relation to subsection (1)(d), commences business as a
            commodity pool operator on or after that date; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               18

       (e) in relation to subsection (1)(e), is a commodity pool
            operator’s representative of a commodity pool operator
            mentioned in paragraph (d) who does not hold a
            transitional licence.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

 (3) A holder of a commodity broker’s licence is not required to hold
a commodity trading adviser’s licence.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) for an offence under subsection (1)(b) or (d) to a fine not
     exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 years or to both;

(b) for an offence under subsection (1)(a), (c) or (e) to a fine
     not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) In this section, “transitional licence” has the meaning given by
section 66.

                                                                                                             [4/2017]

Licence for spot commodity trading

 13A.—(1) Subject to section 14A, no person may act as, or hold the
person out as —

       (a) a spot commodity broker;

       (b) a spot commodity broker’s representative;

       (c) a spot commodity pool operator; or

       (d) a spot commodity pool operator’s representative,

unless the person is the holder of a licence granted under this Part that
authorises the person to act as such.

 (2) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the activities of, and standards to be maintained by, spot
            commodity brokers, spot commodity broker’s
            representatives, spot commodity pool operators and spot
            commodity pool operator’s representatives;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
19  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    (b) accounts or other records to be kept by spot commodity
         brokers and spot commodity pool operators;

    (c) the powers of the Board in examining any accounts or
        records kept by spot commodity brokers and spot
        commodity pool operators, including the appointment of
        an auditor to audit the accounts or records;

    (d) the segregation of customer’s funds by spot commodity
         brokers; and

    (e) the powers of the Board —

    (i) to order the production of any books, accounts or
        records kept by spot commodity brokers and spot
        commodity pool operators;

    (ii) to order the provision of any information relating to
         the business of spot commodity brokers and spot
         commodity pool operators;

    (iii) to carry out investigations with respect to any
          contravention against this Act; and

    (iv) to issue directions to any spot commodity broker,
         spot commodity broker’s representative, spot
         commodity pool operator or spot commodity pool
         operator’s representative to cease contravention of
         any provision in this Act.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) for an offence under subsection (1)(a) or (c), to a fine not
         exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 3 years or to both; or

    (b) for an offence under subsection (1)(b) or (d), to a fine not
         exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
         exceeding 12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               20

Power of Board to grant licences and impose conditions, etc.

 14. The Board may grant or renew a licence under this Part subject
to such conditions or restrictions as it thinks fit and for such period as
the Board may determine.

Exemption from this Part

 14A.—(1) Subject to such conditions as the Board may impose, the
persons specified in the Schedule are exempted, to the extent
specified in the Schedule, from any provision of this Part.

 (2) The Board may, by order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule.

Grounds for refusal to grant or renew licences

 15.—(1) Where an applicant is an individual, the Board may refuse
to grant or renew a licence under this Part on the ground that —

       (a) the applicant has not provided the Board with such
            information relating to him or her or any person
            employed by or associated with him or her for the
            purposes of his or her business, and to any
            circumstances likely to affect his or her method of
            conducting business, as may be prescribed under this Act;

       (b) the applicant is an undischarged bankrupt or has made a
            composition or arrangement with his or her creditors;

       (c) it appears to the Board that, by reason of the applicant, or
            any person employed by or associated with him or her for
            the purposes of his or her business, having been convicted,
            whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence the
            conviction for which involved a finding that he or she acted
            fraudulently or dishonestly, or having been convicted of an
            offence under this Act, or having committed a breach of
            any regulations made under this Act relating to licensed
            persons, the applicant is not a fit and proper person to be
            licensed;

       (d) the Board reasonably believes that there may be any
            circumstance that is likely to lead to the improper conduct
            of business by, or the reflection of discredit on the method

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
21  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    of conducting such business by, the applicant or any person
    employed by or associated with him or her for the purpose
    of his or her business;

    (e) the applicant is, in the view of the Board, not a fit and
        proper person to be licensed;

    (f) the Board is not satisfied that the educational or other
        qualifications or experience of the applicant would enable
        him or her to carry out all the duties of a licensee;

    (g) the Board has reason to believe that the applicant will not
         be able to perform the functions of a licensee in an
         efficient, honest and fair manner;

    (h) the Board has reason to believe that the applicant may not
         be able to act in the best interests of his or her customers or
         subscribers, having regard to his or her reputation,
         character, financial integrity or reliability;

    (i) the financial standing of the applicant is, in the view of the
        Board, unsatisfactory;

    (j) the past performance or expertise of the applicant is, in the
        view of the Board, unsatisfactory; or

    (k) the Board is of the opinion that it is in the public interest to
        do so.

 (2) Where an applicant is a corporation, the Board may refuse to
grant or renew a licence under this Part on the ground that —

    (a) the applicant has not provided the Board with such
         information relating to it or any person employed by or
         associated with it for the purposes of its business, and to
         any circumstances likely to affect its method of conducting
         business, as may be prescribed under this Act;

    (b) the applicant has at any time prior to the application
         entered into any composition or arrangement with its
         creditors;

    (c) it appears to the Board that, by reason of the applicant, or
        any of its directors or employees, having been convicted,
        whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               22

          conviction for which involved a finding that it or he or she
          acted fraudulently or dishonestly, or having been convicted
          of an offence under this Act, or having committed a breach
          of any regulations made under this Act relating to licensed
          persons, the applicant is not a fit and proper person to be
          licensed;

(d) it appears to the Board that, by reason of any other
     circumstances which either are likely to lead to the
     improper conduct of business by, or reflect discredit on
     the method of conducting the business of, the applicant or
     any of its directors or employees, the applicant is not a fit
     and proper person to be licensed;

          (e) the financial standing of the applicant or its substantial
              shareholder or the manner in which its business is
              conducted is, in the view of the Board, unsatisfactory;

          (f) the record of past performance or expertise of the applicant
              is, in the view of the Board, unsatisfactory, having regard
              to the nature of the business which the applicant may carry
              on under the licence;

(g) the Board reasonably believes that there may be any
     circumstance that is likely to lead to the improper conduct
     of business by, or the reflection of discredit on the method
     of conducting such business by, the applicant or its
     substantial shareholder or any of its directors, officers or
     employees; or

(h) the Board is of the opinion that it is in the public interest to
     do so.

 (3) Despite anything in this Part, the Board may refuse to grant or
renew a licence under this Part where the applicant fails to meet such
minimum financial requirements as are prescribed by the Board or
provided in such business rules of a commodity market as have been
approved by the Board.

 (4) In subsection (2), “substantial shareholder”, in relation to an
applicant which is a body corporate, has the meaning given by the
Companies Act 1967.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
23  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Regulations relating to licences

 16. The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

    (a) for the form and manner in which an application for a
         licence or for the renewal of a licence under this Part is to
         be made;

    (b) prescribing fees payable to the Board in respect of the
         licences;

    (c) requiring such information as it considers necessary in
        relation to the application;

    (d) for the imposition of any conditions or restrictions as it
         thinks fit;

    (e) prescribing the appropriate standards with respect to the
        qualifications, experience and training of applicants for
        licences under this Part;

    (f) for establishing and maintaining a register of licensed
        persons; and

    (g) for requiring the holder of a licence under this Part to notify
         the Board of such change of particulars and information as
         may be prescribed.

False statements

 17. A person who, in connection with an application for a licence or
for the renewal of a licence, wilfully makes a statement which is false
or misleading in a material particular, knowing it to be false or
misleading, or wilfully omits to state any matter or thing without
which the application is misleading in a material respect, shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Revocation of licence
 18.—(1) A licence is deemed to be revoked, in the case of —
       (a) an individual, if the individual dies;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               24

(b) a corporation, if the corporation is wound up.

 (2) Where a licensed person is an individual, the Board may revoke
a licence —

(a) on any ground on which the Board may refuse to grant a
     licence under section 15(1) or (3);

(b) if an enforcement order in respect of the licensed person
     has not been satisfied;

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(c) if the licensed person fails or ceases to carry on business
     for which he or she was licensed;

(d) if, in the case of a representative, the licence of the
     commodity broker, commodity trading adviser or
     commodity pool operator, in relation to whom the
     licence was granted, is revoked;

          (e) if the Board has reason to believe that the licensed person
              has not performed his or her duties efficiently, honestly or
              fairly; or

          (f) if the licensed person contravenes or fails to comply with
              any of the conditions or restrictions applicable in respect of
              the licence.

 (3) Where a licensed person is a corporation, the Board may revoke
a licence —

(a) on any ground on which the Board may refuse to grant a
     licence under section 15(2) or (3);

(b) if it is being or will be wound up;

(c) if an enforcement order in respect of it has not been
     satisfied;

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(d) if it has entered into any composition or arrangement with
     its creditors;

          (e) if it fails or ceases to carry on business for which it was
              licensed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
25  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    (f) if the Board has reason to believe that the licensed person,
        or any of its directors or employees, has not performed its,
        his or her duties efficiently, honestly or fairly; or

    (g) if the licensed person contravenes or fails to comply with
         any of the conditions or restrictions applicable in respect of
         the licence.

 (4) The Board may revoke the licence of a person at the request of
the person.

 (5) The Board must not revoke a licence under subsection (2) or (3)
without first giving the person an opportunity of being heard.

Powers of Board in cases of misconduct, etc.

 19.—(1) The Board may inquire into any allegation that a licensed
person is or has been guilty of any misconduct or is no longer a fit and
proper person to continue to remain licensed by reason of any other
circumstances which have led, or are likely to lead, to the improper
conduct of business by the licensed person or to reflect discredit on
the method of conducting the licensed person’s business.

 (2) If, after inquiring into an allegation under subsection (1) against
a licensed person, the Board is of the opinion that the allegation is
proved, the Board may if it thinks fit —

       (a) revoke the licence of the person;

       (b) suspend the licence of the person for such period, or until
            the happening of such event, as the Board may determine;
            or

       (c) reprimand the person.

 (3) The Board must, at the hearing of an inquiry into an allegation
under subsection (1) against a licensed person, give the person an
opportunity of being heard.

 (4) Where the Board is satisfied, after making an inquiry into an
allegation under subsection (1), that the allegation has been made in
bad faith or that it is otherwise frivolous or vexatious, it may, by
written order, require the person who made the allegation to pay any
costs and expenses involved in the inquiry.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               26

(5) In this section, “misconduct” means —

(a) any failure to comply with the requirements of this Act or
     any regulations made under this Act with respect to
     licensed persons; and

(b) any act or omission relating to the conduct of business of a
     licensed person which is or is likely to be prejudicial to the
     public interest.

Effect of revocation or suspension of licence

 20.—(1) A person whose licence is revoked under section 18 or
revoked or suspended under section 19 is, for the purposes of this
Part, deemed not to be licensed from the date that the Board revokes
or suspends the licence, as the case may be.

 (2) A revocation or suspension of a licence of a person does not
operate so as to —

       (a) avoid or affect any agreement, transaction or arrangement
            relating to the trading in commodity contracts entered into
            by the person, whether the agreement, transaction or
            arrangement was entered into before or after the revocation
            or suspension of the licence; or

       (b) affect any right, obligation or liability arising under any
            such agreement, transaction or arrangement.

Appeal against refusal to license, etc.

 21. Where —

       (a) the Board refuses to grant or renew a licence under
            section 15;

       (b) the Board revokes a licence under section 18; or

       (c) the licence is revoked or suspended, or a licensed person is
            reprimanded, under section 19,

any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the Board may, within
one month after the person is notified of the decision, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
27  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT

Accounts to be kept by commodity brokers

 22.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to provide for the keeping by commodity brokers of such
accounting and other records as may be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may in
particular provide —

    (a) for the particulars to be shown or recorded in such accounts
         or records;

    (b) for the keeping of separate or segregated accounts;

    (c) for the period during which the accounts or records are
        required to be kept;

    (d) for the form and manner in which the accounts or records
         are to be kept;

    (e) for the appointment of an auditor by every commodity
        broker and for the duties of the auditor, including the duty
        to report to the Board any matter adversely affecting the
        financial position of the broker and such other matters in
        such circumstances as may be prescribed;

    (f) for the information to be contained in the auditor’s reports;

    (g) for the remuneration of an auditor appointed under this Act
         and for the costs of an audit carried out under this Act;

    (h) for the lodging of annual accounts and the auditor’s report
         with the Board in such manner and form and within such
         time as may be prescribed; and

    (i) that a contravention thereof shall be punishable with a fine
        not exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
        exceeding 12 months or with both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               28

Power of Board to appoint auditor

23.—(1) Where —

(a) a commodity broker fails to lodge an auditor’s report as is
     required under regulations made pursuant to
     section 22(2)(h); or

(b) the Board receives an auditor’s report on any matter
     adversely affecting the financial position of the commodity
     broker or any other matter that the auditor is required to
     report under regulations made pursuant to section 22(2)(e),

the Board may, without affecting its powers under section 28, if it is
satisfied that it is in the interests of the commodity broker, the
customers of the commodity broker or the general public to do so,
appoint in writing an auditor to examine and audit, either generally or
in relation to any particular matter, the books, accounts and records of
the commodity broker.

 (2) Where the Board is of the opinion that the whole or any part of
the costs and expenses of an auditor appointed by it under
subsection (1) should be borne by the commodity broker, the
Board may, by written order, direct the commodity broker to pay a
specified amount, being the whole or part of such costs and expenses,
within the time and in the manner specified in the order.

 (3) Where a commodity broker fails to comply with an order under
subsection (2), the amount specified in the order may be sued for and
recovered by the Board as a debt due to the Board.

 (4) An auditor appointed under this section must, on the conclusion
of the examination and audit, make a report thereon to the Board.

Power of auditors appointed by Board

 24.—(1) An auditor appointed under section 23 to examine and
audit the books, accounts and records of a commodity broker may, for
the purpose of carrying out the examination and audit —

       (a) examine on oath any of the commodity broker’s directors,
            employees and agents and any other auditor appointed
            under this Act in relation to those books, accounts and
            records;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
29  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    (b) require any of the commodity broker’s directors,
         employees and agents, to produce any books, accounts
         and records held by or on behalf of the commodity broker
         relating to the commodity broker’s business and make
         copies of or take accounts and records for such period as is
         necessary to enable them to be inspected;

    (c) require an auditor appointed by the commodity broker to
        produce any books, accounts and records held by the
        commodity broker relating to the business of the
        commodity broker;

    (d) require a commodity market or a clearing house to produce
         any books, accounts and records kept by it relating to the
         business of the commodity broker;

    (e) require a commodity market or a clearing house to provide
        any information in its possession relating to the business of
        the commodity broker;

    (f) employ such persons as the auditor considers necessary to
        assist the auditor in carrying out the examination and audit;
        and

    (g) by instrument in writing under the hand of the auditor,
         authorise any person employed by the auditor to do, in
         relation to the examination and audit, any act or thing that
         the auditor could do himself or herself as an auditor, except
         the examination of any person on oath, under this
         subsection.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to
answer any question put to the person, or fails to comply with any
request made to the person, by an auditor appointed under section 23,
or a person authorised under subsection (1)(g), shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (3) If a commodity market or a clearing house, without reasonable
excuse, fails to comply with any request made to it by an auditor
appointed under section 28, or a person authorised under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               30

subsection (1)(g), that market or the clearing house shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000.

Offence to destroy, alter, etc., records

 25.—(1) A person who, with intent to prevent, delay or obstruct the
carrying out of any examination and audit under this Part —

       (a) destroys, conceals or alters any book, account or record
            relating to the business of a commodity broker; or

       (b) sends, or conspires with any other person to send, out of
            Singapore any such book, account or record, or any
            property of any description belonging to or in the
            possession or under the control of a commodity broker,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) If, in a prosecution for an offence under subsection (1), it is
proved that the person charged —

       (a) destroyed, concealed or altered any book, account or
            record mentioned in subsection (1)(a); or

       (b) sent, or conspired to send, out of Singapore any such book,
            account or record, or any property mentioned in
            subsection (1)(b),

the person is presumed until the contrary is proved, that in so doing
the person did not act with intent to prevent, delay or obstruct the
carrying out of an examination and audit under this Part.

Restriction on auditor’s and employee’s right to communicate
certain matters

 26. Except as may be necessary for the carrying into effect of the
provisions of this Act or so far as may be required for the purposes of
any legal proceedings, whether civil or criminal, an auditor appointed
under section 23 or any regulations made pursuant to section 22 and
any employee of such auditor (each called A) must not divulge any
information which may come to A’s knowledge in the course of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
31  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

performing A’s duties as such auditor or employee (as the case may
be) to any person other than —

    (a) the Board or any person approved or designated by the
         Board; and

    (b) in the case of an employee, the auditor by whom he or she
         is employed.

Maintenance of books and records and furnishing accounts,
etc., by trading adviser and pool operator

 27.—(1) Every commodity trading adviser and commodity pool
operator must cause to be kept such books and records and file such
reports, in such form and manner, as may be prescribed by the Board.

 (2) Every commodity trading adviser and commodity pool operator
(each called A) must make full and complete disclosure to A’s
subscribers, customers or participants of all open commodity market
positions taken or held by A on their behalf or if A is a corporation by
any director, manager or employee of the corporation, whether
directly or indirectly.

 (3) Every commodity pool operator must furnish —

       (a) statements of account, at such periodic intervals, as the
            Board may prescribe; and

       (b) an annual report, to each participant in the commodity pool
            operator’s pool operations.

 (4) The statements of account and annual report must be in such
form and manner as may be prescribed by the Board and must include
complete information as to the current status of all trading accounts in
which the participant has an interest.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1), or who knowingly or recklessly furnishes any
information under subsection (2) or (3) which is false or
misleading in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               32

 (6) The provisions of this Part in relation to the appointment of an
auditor whether by the Board or otherwise, the powers and duties of
an auditor and the filing of an auditor’s report apply with the
necessary modifications to a commodity market, a clearing house, a
commodity trading adviser and a commodity pool operator as they
apply to a commodity broker under this Part.

Additional powers of Board in respect of auditors

 28.—(1) Despite the provisions of the Companies Act 1967 or
anything contained in this Part, the Board may —

       (a) itself appoint an auditor under this Part; and

       (b) impose all or any of the following duties on an auditor of a
            commodity market, a clearing house, a commodity broker,
            a commodity trading adviser or a commodity pool
            operator, as the case may be:

               (i) a duty to submit such additional information in
                   relation to the audit as the Board considers
                   necessary;

              (ii) a duty to enlarge or extend the scope of the audit of
                   the business and affairs of a commodity market, a
                   clearing house, a commodity trading adviser or a
                   commodity pool operator;

             (iii) a duty to carry out any other examination or establish
                   any procedure in any particular case;

             (iv) a duty to submit a report on any of the matters
                   referred to in sub‑paragraphs (ii) and (iii),

and a commodity market, a clearing house, a commodity broker, a
commodity trading adviser or a commodity pool operator (as the case
may be) must remunerate the auditor in respect of the discharge of all
or any of the additional duties.

 (2) If an auditor in the course of the performance of the auditor’s
duties as an auditor of a commodity market, a clearing house, a
commodity broker, a commodity trading adviser or a commodity pool
operator (as the case may be) is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
33  Commodity Trading Act 1992                                2020 Ed.

    (a) there has been a serious breach or non-observance of this
         Act or any regulations made under this Act, or that
         otherwise a criminal offence involving fraud or dishonesty
         has been committed;

    (b) serious irregularities have occurred, including
         irregularities that jeopardise the funds, securities or
         property of the customers; or

    (c) the auditor is unable to confirm whether claims of creditors
        are still covered by the assets,

the auditor must immediately report the matter to the Board.

 (3) An auditor appointed under subsection (1)(a) has all the powers
conferred upon an auditor under section 24.

 (4) Where the Board is of the opinion that the whole or any part of
the costs and expenses of an auditor appointed under
subsection (1)(a) should be borne by a commodity market, a
clearing house, a commodity broker, a commodity trading adviser
or a commodity pool operator (as the case may be), the Board may by
written order direct that the market, clearing house, broker, trading
adviser or pool operator (as the case may be) pay a specified amount
(being the whole or part of the costs and expenses) within the time
and manner specified in the order.

Defamation

 29.—(1) An auditor shall not, in the absence of malice on the
auditor’s part, be liable to any action for defamation at the suit of any
person in respect of —

       (a) any statement made orally or in writing in the discharge of
            the auditor’s duties; or

       (b) the sending of any report to the Board under any
            regulations made pursuant to section 22 or 28.

 (2) This section does not restrict or affect any right, privilege or
immunity that the auditor has, apart from this section, as a defendant
in an action for defamation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               34

          PART 5

CONDUCT OF COMMODITY TRADING BUSINESS

Segregation of customer’s funds by broker

 30.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to provide that every commodity broker must treat and
deal with all money, securities or property received by the commodity
broker from a customer in such manner and in such separate accounts
as may be prescribed.

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may provide —

(a) for the circumstances in which funds, securities or property
     received from a customer may be segregated and deposited
     in the same account;

(b) for the circumstances in and purposes for which funds may
     be withdrawn from separate trust accounts;

          (c) for the exemption by the Board of any commodity broker
              or class of commodity brokers, or any transaction or class
              of transactions relating to trading in commodity contracts,
              from any of the provisions of the regulations; and

(d) that a contravention thereof shall be punishable with a fine
     not exceeding $30,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 years or with both.

 (3) Money, securities or property received from a customer and
held by a commodity broker in a separate trust account under any
regulations made under subsection (1) —

(a) is not available for payment of the debts of the commodity
     broker to a creditor of the commodity broker; or

(b) is not liable to be attached or taken under or pursuant to an
     enforcement order or process of any court at the instance of
     the creditor,

unless the creditor is a customer of the commodity broker and the
debt owed to the creditor was incurred in connection with trading in
any commodity contract.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
35  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

 (4) This section does not take away or affect a lawful claim or lien
that a commodity broker has against, or on, any money, securities or
property held in an account under any regulations made under
subsection (1).

 (5) This Act or any written law does not prevent a commodity
market or a clearing house, with the approval of the Board, from
using the money, securities or property held in a trust account to meet
the obligations of a commodity broker, being a member of the market
or the clearing house, who defaults, if —

    (a) the default of the commodity broker is directly attributable
         to the failure of the commodity broker’s customer to meet
         the obligations under a commodity contract; and

    (b) the failure to use the money, securities or property held in a
         trust account may jeopardise the financial integrity of the
         market or the clearing house.

 (6) In this section, “customer” means a person on whose account a
commodity broker carries on trading in any commodity contract, but
does not include directors, employees and representatives and related
corporations of the commodity broker.

Nature of pool and segregation of funds by pool operator, etc.

 31.—(1) All money, securities or other property received by a
commodity pool operator from existing or prospective pool
participants for the purchase of an interest in a pool must be
received in the pool’s name.

 (2) No commodity pool operator may commingle the property of
any pool that it operates or intends to operate with the property of any
other person.

 (3) The Board may by regulations provide for the capital, structure,
minimum financial requirements, organisation and conduct of a pool
operated by a commodity pool operator and for the exemption of
certain pools from the requirements of this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.         Commodity Trading Act 1992                        36

Risk disclosure

 32.—(1) No commodity broker may open a commodity contract
account for a customer unless the commodity broker furnishes the
customer with a separate written risk disclosure document which
must be in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Board,
and receives from the customer an acknowledgment signed and dated
by the customer that the customer has received and understood the
nature and contents of the disclosure document.

 (2) No commodity pool operator may, directly or indirectly, solicit,
accept or receive funds, securities or other property from a
prospective participant in a pool that the commodity pool operator
operates or that the commodity pool operator intends to operate
unless, on or before the date it engages in that activity, the commodity
pool operator delivers or causes to be delivered to the prospective
participant a risk disclosure document which must be in such form
and contain such information as the Board may prescribe, and
receives from the prospective participant an acknowledgment signed
and dated by the prospective participant that the prospective
participant has received and understood the nature and contents of
the disclosure document.

 (3) No commodity trading adviser may solicit or enter into an
agreement with a prospective client for the purpose of managing the
prospective client’s commodity trading account or guiding the
prospective client’s commodity trading by means of a systematic
programme that recommends specific transactions unless the
commodity trading adviser, at or before the time the commodity
trading adviser engages in the solicitation or enters into the agreement
(whichever is the earlier), delivers or causes to be delivered to the
prospective client a risk disclosure document in respect of those
purposes which must be in such form and contain such information as
the Board may prescribe, and receives from the prospective client an
acknowledgment signed and dated by the prospective client that the
prospective client has received and understood the nature and
contents of the disclosure document.

 (4) Except as may be provided by any regulations made under this
Act, no commodity trading adviser may solicit, accept or secure from

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
37  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

an existing or prospective client money, securities or other property in
the commodity trading adviser’s name to purchase, margin guarantee
or secure any interest of the client in a commodity contract.

Offences

 33. A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Part
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                    PART 6

                           POWERS OF BOARD

Emergency powers

 34.—(1) Whenever the Board has reason to believe that an
emergency exists, the Board may direct a commodity market or a
clearing house to take such action as it considers necessary to
maintain or restore orderly trading in, or liquidation of, any
commodity contract or any class of commodity contracts including
but not limited to —

       (a) terminating or suspending trading on a commodity market
            or a clearing house;

       (b) confining trading to liquidation of commodity contracts;

       (c) ordering the liquidation of all positions or part thereof or
            the reduction in such positions;

       (d) limiting trading to a specific price range;

       (e) modifying trading days or hours;

        (f) altering conditions of delivery;

       (g) fixing the settlement price at which contracts are to be
            liquidated;

       (h) requiring any person to act in a specified manner in relation
            to trading in commodity contracts or any class of
            commodity contracts;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               38

          (i) requiring additional margins for any contracts; and

          (j) modifying or suspending any of the business rules of a
              commodity market,

and the market or clearing house must comply with that direction.

 (2) Where a commodity market or a clearing house fails to comply
with the direction of the Board under subsection (1) within such time
as is specified by the Board, the Board may itself take action to set
emergency margin levels in any commodity contract or class of
commodity contracts, or to fix limits that may apply to market
positions acquired in good faith prior to the date of the Board’s action
or any other action, including but not limited to those specified in
subsection (1), that it thinks are necessary to maintain or restore
orderly trading in, or liquidation of, commodity contracts or any class
of commodity contracts.

 (3) In this section, “emergency” includes, in addition to threatened
or actual market manipulations and corners, any act of government
affecting a commodity or any other major market disturbance which
prevents the market from accurately reflecting the forces of supply
and demand for such commodity or any other undesirable situations
or practices which in the opinion of the Board constitutes an
emergency.

 (4) Without affecting subsection (1) where a commodity market or
a clearing house exercises its powers under its rules to take
emergency action, the Board may modify such emergency action,
including but not limited to the setting aside of that emergency action.

 (5) A person who is aggrieved by any action taken by the Board, a
commodity market or a clearing house under this section may appeal
to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (6) Despite the lodging of an appeal under subsection (5), any
emergency action taken by the Board, a commodity market or a
clearing house under this section continues to have force and effect
until such time as the Minister makes a decision on the appeal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
39  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Fixing of position and trading limits in contracts

 35.—(1) For the purpose of diminishing, eliminating or preventing
excessive speculation in any commodity under a commodity contract,
the Board may, by written notice, establish and fix such limits as it
considers necessary on the amount of trading which may be done or
positions which may be held by any person, generally or specifically,
under a commodity contract on or subject to the business rules of a
commodity market.

 (2) In determining whether a person has exceeded such limits, the
positions held and trading done by any persons, directly or indirectly,
controlled by that person must be included with the positions held and
trading done by that person.

 (3) Such limits upon positions and trading apply to positions held
by, and trading done by, 2 or more persons acting pursuant to an
express or implied agreement or understanding, as if the positions
were held by, or the trading done by, a single person.

 (4) This section does not apply to transactions or positions which
are bona fide hedging transactions or positions as defined by a
commodity market in accordance with such regulations as may be
prescribed under section 63.

                                                                                                [22/2001; 35/2007]

 (5) No person may, directly or indirectly —

    (a) buy or sell, or agree to buy or sell, a commodity contract or
         any number of such contracts (on or subject to the
         regulations of the commodity market which apply to the
         contract or contracts) in excess of the trading limits fixed
         for one business day, or other stated period set by the Board
         or a commodity market with the approval of the Board; or

    (b) hold or control a net buy or sell position under a
         commodity contract on or subject to the business rules of
         the commodity market in excess of any position limit fixed
         by the Board or a commodity market with the approval of
         the Board with respect to that commodity contract.

 (6) This section does not preclude the Board from fixing different
trading or position limits for different contracts or delivery months or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               40

for different days remaining until the last day of trading in a contract
or different trading limits for the purposes of subsection (5), or from
exempting transactions under this section.

Production of records

 36.—(1) A commodity market, clearing house, commodity broker
or commodity pool operator must —

       (a) produce any books, accounts and records kept by it, him or
            her in connection with, or for the purposes of, its, his or her
            business, or in respect of any trading in commodity
            contracts;

       (b) collect and furnish any returns; and

       (c) provide any information relating to its, his or her business,
            or any trading in commodity contracts, or any other
            specified information,

as the Board may require.

 (2) The Board may, on production of any books, accounts or
records under subsection (1), take copies of or extracts from them.

 (3) If any of the persons or bodies mentioned in subsection (1),
without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any requirement
under subsection (1), the person or body concerned shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000.

Records of transactions on commodity market or clearing
house

 37.—(1) Every commodity market and clearing house must keep
such records as are necessary for the proper recording of each
transaction on the market or clearing house and must supply to any
customer of any member of such market or clearing house, upon
production of a written confirmation of any transaction with such
member, particulars of the approximate time at which the transaction
took place and verification or otherwise of the matters set forth in the
confirmation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
41  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

 (2) The Board may, at any time, require a commodity market or a
clearing house to deliver to it reports of transactions on the market or
clearing house in such form as the Board may prescribe.

Information to be provided by market participants

 38.—(1) Upon a determination by the Board that information
concerning accounts may be relevant to determine whether
manipulation, corner, squeeze or other market disorders exists in
any commodity market, the Board may, by written notice, require
such information as it thinks necessary from any person, including a
member of a clearing house or a commodity broker or any customer
in the commodity market, and the person concerned must provide the
required information within such time as may be specified by the
Board.

 (2) If the Board has reason to believe that any person has failed to
give the information required in the notice, it may without prejudice
to any other penalty that may be imposed inform a commodity market
or a clearing house which must, in the event, prohibit the execution
of, or acceptance for orders of, trades on the market or a clearing
house and in the months or expiration dates specified in the notice
unless such trades offset open contracts of that person.

 39. [Repealed by Act 35 of 2007]

Investigations by Board

 40.—(1) The Board may conduct such investigations as it considers
necessary to determine whether any person has contravened or is
contravening any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Board may, in writing,
require any person named therein to testify or to produce any
document or other material relating to any matter under investigation,
and such person must immediately comply with that requirement.

 (3) Nothing in this section compels the production by an advocate
or solicitor of a document or other material containing a privileged
communication made by or to the advocate or solicitor in that
capacity or otherwise the taking of any such document or other
material which is in his or her possession, but if the advocate or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               42

solicitor refuses to produce the document or other material, the
advocate or solicitor must nevertheless give the name and address of
the person (if the advocate or solicitor knows them) to whom or by or
on behalf of whom that communication was made.

 (4) The Board may by regulations prescribe the practice and
procedure to be followed in any investigation under this section.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any requirement under subsection (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

Inspections by Board

 41.—(1) The Board may inspect under conditions of secrecy the
books, accounts, documents and transactions of a commodity market,
a clearing house, a commodity broker, a commodity pool operator or
a commodity trading adviser.

 (2) The Board may appoint any person to exercise the powers of the
Board under subsection (1).

 (3) For the purpose of an inspection under this section, any of the
persons or bodies mentioned in subsection (1) under inspection must
give the Board access to, and must produce, its books, accounts and
documents, and must give such information and facilities as may be
required to conduct the inspection.

 (4) Any person appointed by the Board has, at all times, the power
to copy or take possession of the books, accounts and other
documents of the commodity market, clearing house, commodity
broker, commodity pool operator or commodity trading adviser.

 (5) A person who or body which, without reasonable excuse, fails
to produce any book, account or document or furnish any information
or facilities in accordance with subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
43  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Power to issue directions

 42.—(1) Where it appears to the Board that a commodity market, a
clearing house or any person has contravened or is contravening any
of the provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this Act,
or is restraining trading in commodity contracts, the Board may, after
giving the market, clearing house or any such person an opportunity
of being heard —

    (a) direct the market, clearing house or person to comply with
         that provision or to cease contravention of that provision;
         or

    (b) direct the market, clearing house or person to desist from
         restraining trading in commodity contracts,

and the market, clearing house or person must comply with the
direction.

 (2) A clearing house or any person who, without reasonable excuse,
fails to comply with a direction given under subsection (1) that is
applicable to that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (3) A commodity market, a clearing house or any person aggrieved
by any direction given under subsection (1) may, within one month
after being notified of the direction, appeal to the General Division of
the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (4) Despite the lodging of an appeal under subsection (3), any
direction of the Board given under this section continues to have force
and effect until such time as the General Division of the High Court
makes a decision on the appeal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.       Commodity Trading Act 1992                          44

               PART 7

               OFFENCES

False trading

 43. No person may create or cause to be created or do anything that
is calculated to create —

(a) a false or misleading appearance of active trading in a
     commodity market; or

(b) a false or misleading appearance with respect to the market
     for, or the price of trading in, commodity contracts.

Bucketing

 44. No person may knowingly execute, or hold the person out as
having executed, an order for the purchase or sale of a commodity
contract on a commodity market without having effected a bona fide
purchase or sale of the commodity contract in accordance with the
business rules and practices of the commodity market.

Dissemination of information about false trading

 45. No person may circulate, disseminate or authorise, or be
concerned in the circulation or dissemination of, any statement or
information to the effect that the price of trading in any class of
commodity contracts will, or is likely to, rise or fall because of the
market operations of one or more persons which, to the
firstmentioned person’s knowledge, are conducted in contravention
of section 43.

Manipulation of price and cornering

 46. No person may, directly or indirectly —

       (a) manipulate, or attempt to manipulate, the price of a
            commodity contract that may be dealt in on a
            commodity market; or

       (b) corner, or attempt to corner, any commodity which is the
            subject of any commodity contract.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
45  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Employment of fraudulent or deceptive devices, etc.

 47. No person may, directly or indirectly, in connection with any
transaction with any other person involving trading in a commodity
contract —

    (a) employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud that other
         person;

    (b) engage in any act, practice or course of business which
         operates as a fraud or deception, or is likely to operate as a
         fraud or deception, of that other person; or

    (c) make any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
        state a material fact necessary in order to make the
        statements made, in the light of the circumstances under
        which they were made, not misleading.

Fraudulently inducing trading

 48. No person may, directly or indirectly, for the purposes of
inducing or attempting to induce another person to trade in a
commodity contract or class of commodity contracts, make or
publish —

       (a) any statement which is, at the time and in the light of the
            circumstances in which it is made, false, misleading or
            deceptive with respect to any material fact and which the
            person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing, is
            false, misleading or deceptive; or

       (b) any statement which is, by reason of the omission of a
            material fact, rendered false, misleading or deceptive and
            which the person knows, or has reasonable grounds for
            believing, is rendered false, misleading or deceptive by
            reason of the omission of that fact.

Penalties

 49. A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Part
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               46

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $250,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     7 years or to both; or

(b) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding
     $500,000.

50. [Repealed by Act 35 of 2007]

                                    PART 8

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Preservation of secrecy

 51.—(1) Every director, officer or employee of a commodity
market or a clearing house must preserve, and aid in preserving,
secrecy with regard to all matters coming to his or her knowledge in
the exercise or performance of his or her duties.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply —

       (a) to the disclosure of any information which is authorised by
            the Board to be disclosed or furnished;

       (b) to the disclosure of information for the purpose of any legal
            proceedings brought under this Act or any other written
            law, or for the purpose of any report of any such
            proceedings, except that in relation to a customer’s or
            commodity broker’s position such proceedings may (if the
            court, of its own motion or on the application of a party to
            the proceedings, so orders) be held in private in which
            event the information is secret as between the court and the
            parties thereto; or

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (c) to the disclosure of information for such other purposes, or
            in such other circumstances, as the Board may by
            regulations prescribe.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1), directly or indirectly,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
47  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Offences by directors or managers

 52.—(1) Any person, being a director or manager of a commodity
market, a clearing house, a commodity broker, a commodity trading
adviser or a commodity pool operator, who —

    (a) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure compliance with
         the provisions of this Act; or

    (b) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure the accuracy and
         correctness of any statement submitted under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) In any proceedings against a person under subsection (1), it is a
defence to prove that the person had reasonable grounds for believing
that another person was charged with the duty of securing compliance
with the requirements of this Act, or with the duty of ensuring that
those statements were accurate, and that the person was competent,
and in a position, to discharge that duty.

 (3) A person shall not be sentenced to imprisonment for any offence
under subsection (1) unless, in the opinion of the court, the person
committed the offence wilfully.

Falsification of records by directors, employees and agents

 53. Any director, manager, trustee, auditor, employee or agent of a
commodity market, of a clearing house, of a commodity broker, of a
commodity trading adviser or of a commodity pool operator, who —

       (a) wilfully makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in any
            book or record or in any report, slip, document or
            statement, assets or accounts of that market, clearing
            house, broker, trading adviser or pool operator;

       (b) wilfully omits to make an entry in any book or record or in
            any report, slip, document or statement of the business,
            affairs, transactions, conditions, assets or accounts of that
            market, clearing house, broker, trading adviser or pool
            operator, or wilfully causes any such entry to be omitted; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               48

          (c) wilfully alters, abstracts, conceals or destroys an entry in
              any book or record or in any report, slip, document or
              statement of the business, affairs, transactions, conditions,
              assets or accounts of that market, clearing house, broker,
              trading adviser or pool operator, or wilfully causes any
              such entry to be altered, abstracted, concealed or
              destroyed,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

False reports

 54. A person who, with intent to deceive, makes or furnishes, or
knowingly and wilfully authorises or permits the making or
furnishing of, any false or misleading statement or report to the
Board, a commodity market, a clearing house or any officers thereof
relating to —

       (a) trading in commodity contracts;

       (b) any matter or thing required by the Board for the proper
            administration of this Act; or

       (c) the enforcement of the business rules of a commodity
            market or a clearing house,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Immunity of Board and its employees, etc.

 55. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Board or
any officer or employee of the Board or any person (including a
commodity market or a clearing house) acting under the direction of
the Board for any act done in good faith in the performance, or
intended performance, of any duty, or in the exercise of any power
under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, or for any
neglect or default in the performance or exercise in good faith of such
duty or power.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
49  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Offences by corporations

 56. Where a corporation is guilty of an offence under this Act, any
director, manager, secretary or other officer of the corporation who
was, in any way, by act or omission, directly or indirectly, knowingly
concerned in, or a party to, the commission of the offence is also
guilty of that offence.

Prohibition of use of certain titles

 57.—(1) No person other than a clearing house may —

       (a) take or use the title “clearing house”; or

       (b) take or use, or have attached to or exhibited at any place,
            any title which resembles the title specified in
            paragraph (a) or so closely resembles the title as to be
            calculated to deceive.

                                                                                                           [35/2007]

 (2) A person who is not a commodity broker, commodity trading
adviser or commodity pool operator must not —

       (a) take or use the title or description “commodity broker”,
            “spot commodity broker”, “commodity trading adviser”,
            “commodity pool operator” or “spot commodity pool
            operator”; or

       (b) take or use, or have attached to or exhibited at any place,
            any title or description that resembles the titles specified in
            paragraph (a) or so closely resembles the titles as to be
            calculated to deceive.

 (3) A person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$2,000 for every day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               50

Proceedings by whom and when to be taken and power to
compound offences

58.—(1) Proceedings for an offence —

(a) against any provision in Part 7 may be taken only with the
     consent of the Public Prosecutor; and

       (b) against any other provision of this Act may be taken by the
            Board or, with the consent of the Public Prosecutor, by any
            other person.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (2) The Board may, without instituting proceedings against any
person for an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
this Act, which is punishable only by a fine, demand and receive the
amount of such fine or such reduced amount as it thinks fit, from the
person, whereupon —

(a) if the person pays that amount to the Board within 14 days
     after the demand, no proceedings may be taken against the
     person in relation to the offence;

(b) if the person does not pay the amount so demanded, the
     Board may cause proceedings to be instituted in relation to
     the offence.

 (3) The powers conferred upon the Board under subsection (2) may
only be exercised where a person admits the offence and agrees in
writing to the offence being dealt with under that subsection.

Jurisdiction of courts

 59. Despite anything in any other written law, a District Court has
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and has power to impose
the full penalty prescribed for any such offence.

General penalty

 60. A person, who fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act for which no penalty is expressly provided, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
51         Commodity Trading Act 1992                        2020 Ed.

Exemption

 61. The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, if it considers
it to be in the public interest and not inconsistent with the purposes of
this Act, exempt any person from all or any of the provisions of this
Act and may revoke any such exemption.

62. [Repealed by Act 35 of 2007]

Regulations

 63.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act
and for the due administration thereof.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to —

       (a) the activities of, and standards to be maintained by,
            commodity brokers, commodity trading advisers and
            commodity pool operators, including the manner, method
            and place of soliciting business by them and the conduct of
            such solicitation;

       (b) prescribing the conditions for the conduct of business on a
            commodity market;

       (c) providing for the content and distribution of written,
            printed or visual material and advertisements that may be
            distributed or used by a person in respect of a commodity
            contract;

       (d) prescribing the form and content of a confirmation
            statement of commodity contracts entered into on behalf
            of customers by a commodity broker;

       (e) prescribing the particulars to be recorded in, or in respect
            of, accounts kept by commodity trading advisers and
            commodity pool operators under this Act;

        (f) the design, determination and utilisation by the Board of
            forms for the purposes of this Act;

       (g) prescribing fees to be paid in respect of any matter or thing
            required for the purposes of this Act; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               52

(h) all matters or things which by this Act are required or
     permitted to be prescribed or which are necessary or
     expedient to be prescribed to give effect to this Act.

 (3) Such regulations may provide that a contravention of specified
provisions thereof shall be an offence and may provide penalties not
exceeding a fine of $5,000 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or both.

 (4) Any regulations made under this Act may provide that, subject
to any terms and conditions prescribed, all or any of the provisions of
this Act —

(a) do not have effect in relation to any specified person or to
     any person who is a member of a specified class of
     persons —

          (i) who is, or may be, a commodity broker, commodity
              trading adviser or commodity pool operator, by
              reason only of the person doing anything which is
              merely incidental to another business;

          (ii) who does not trade in commodity contracts for or on
               behalf of any other person; or

          (iii) who is a commodity broker, commodity trading
                adviser or commodity pool operator, by reason only
                of the entering into by the person of any specified
                transaction or class of transactions;

(b) do not have effect in relation to the representative of any
     person referred to in paragraph (a); or

          (c) have effect in relation to any person mentioned in
              paragraph (a) or (b) to such extent as is prescribed.

 (5) The Minister may by order in the Gazette amend or repeal any
written law which appears to him or her to be unnecessary having
regard to the provisions of this Act or to be inconsistent with any
provision of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
53  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

Directions by Minister

 64. The Minister may give to the Board such directions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as the Minister thinks fit,
as to the exercise and performance by the Board of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act, and the Board must give effect to all
such directions.

Validation of acts done in anticipation of this Act

 65. All acts and things done by any person in preparation for or in
anticipation of this Act and any expenditure incurred in relation
thereto are deemed to have been authorised under this Act if the acts
and things done are not inconsistent with the general intention and
purposes of this Act.

                             THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 14A

                                      EXEMPTION

1. The following persons are exempted from the specified provisions of this Act:

       (a) in respect of section 12(1), a person who carries on the purchase or sale
            of commodities in a market that is not a commodity market, where
            such transaction is made with another person in the ordinary course of
            business and —

                (i) it is not intended for resale other than in the ordinary course of
                     business of wholesale or retail; or

               (ii) where there is physical delivery of such commodities from
                     seller to buyer;

       (b) in respect of section 12(1), a person who solicits or accepts orders for
            the purchase or sale of any commodity by way of or relating to any
            commodity contract for a customer in the following circumstances:

                (i) the person is not a party to the commodity contract;

               (ii) the person does not carry the customer’s position, margin or
                     account in the person’s own books;

               (iii) the person does not accept money or assets from the customer
                     as settlement of, or a margin for, or to guarantee or secure, any
                     commodity contract; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               54

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

          (iv) there is physical delivery of the commodity from seller to
               buyer;

(c) in respect of sections 12(1) and 13(1)(a) to (e), a person who carries on
    the business of trading in commodity contracts only with accredited
    investors and not with any other person;

(d) in respect of sections 12(1) and 13(1)(a) to (e), a bank or merchant
     bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

(e) in respect of sections 12(1) (only to the extent that the section applies
    to commodity brokers) and 13(1)(a) to (e), a person who is a Finance
    and Treasury Centre, an approved oil trading company or an approved
    international commodity trading company, within the meaning of the
    Income Tax Act 1947;

          (f) in respect of section 13A, a person who carries on spot commodity
              trading on the person’s own account and does not solicit any funds
              from any member of the public or any section of the public in
              connection with the carrying out of any spot commodity trading; and

(g) in respect of section 13A, a person who solicits or accepts orders for
     the purchase or sale of any commodity by way of spot commodity
     trading for a customer in the following circumstances:

          (i) the person is not a party to any contract for the purchase or sale
              of the commodity;

          (ii) the person does not carry the customer’s position, margin or
               account in the person’s own books; and

          (iii) the person does not accept money or assets from the customer
                as settlement of, or a margin for, or to guarantee or secure any
                contract for any contract for the purchase or sale of any
                commodity.

2. In this Schedule, “accredited investor” means —

(a) an individual —

          (i) whose net personal assets exceed $2 million in value (or its
              equivalent in a foreign currency) or any other amount that the
              Board may prescribe in place of the first amount; or

          (ii) whose income in the preceding 12 months is not less than
               $300,000 (or its equivalent in a foreign currency) or any other
               amount that the Board may prescribe in place of the first
               amount;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
55  Commodity Trading Act 1992                               2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    (b) a corporation with net assets exceeding $10 million in value (or its
         equivalent in a foreign currency) or any other amount that the Board
         may prescribe, in place of the first amount, as determined by —

    (i) the most recent audited balance sheet of the corporation; or

    (ii) where the corporation is not required to prepare audited
         accounts regularly, a balance sheet of the corporation certified
         by the corporation as giving a true and fair view of the state of
         affairs of the corporation as of the date of the balance sheet,
         which date must be within the preceding 12 months;

    (c) the trustee of such trust as the Board may prescribe, when acting in that
        capacity; or

    (d) any other person that the Board may prescribe.

                                                                                       [1/2020; S 343/2013]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           COMMODITY TRADING ACT 1992

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 17 of 1992 — Commodity Futures Act 1992

Bill                     : 23/1992

First Reading            : 10 March 1992

Second and Third Readings : 20 March 1992

Commencement             : 27 May 1992

2. 1993 Revised Edition — Commodity Futures Act (Chapter 48A)

Operation                : 15 March 1993

3. Act 15 of 1995 — Bankruptcy Act 1995
   (Amendments made by section 167(4) read with item (2) of the
   Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 16/1994

First Reading            : 25 July 1994

Second Reading           : 25 August 1994

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 1 of 1995

Third Reading            : 23 March 1995

Commencement             : 15 July 1995 (section 167(4) read with
                               item (2) of the Second Schedule)

4. Act 22 of 2001 — Commodity Futures (Amendment) Act 2001

Bill                     : 18/2001

First Reading            : 8 March 2001

Second Reading           : 16 May 2001

Notice of Amendments     : 16 May 2001

Third Reading            : 16 May 2001

Commencement             : 27 June 2001

Note: The Commodity Futures Act was renamed as the Commodity Trading
        Act by this Act.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               ii

5. Act 17 of 2002 — Trade Development Board (Amendment) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 10(1)(a) of the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement   : 1 April 2002 (section 10(1)(a))

6. Act 42 of 2001 — Securities and Futures Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 343 read with item (3) of the Fourth Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill           : 33/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 July 2002 (section 343 read with
                     item (3)(a) of the Fourth Schedule)
                     1 October 2002 (section 343 read with
                     item (3)(b) of the Fourth Schedule)

7. Act 5 of 2004 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 59 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 3/2004

First Reading  : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement   : 1 April 2004 (section 59 read with
                     item (3) of the Schedule)

8. Act 35 of 2007 — Commodity Trading (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill           : 23/2007

First Reading  : 21 May 2007

Second and Third Readings : 17 July 2007

Commencement   : 27 February 2008 (sections 2 to 25,
                     26(a), 27, 28(a) and (b) and 29)

9. 2009 Revised Edition — Commodity Trading Act (Chapter 48A)

Operation      : 31 July 2009

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      iii

10. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 19 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 19 of the Sixth Schedule)

11. G.N. No. S 343/2013 — Commodity Trading Act (Amendment of
                                    Schedule) Order 2013

Commencement          : 4 June 2013

12. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 67 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/2018

First Reading         : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 67(1))

13. Act 4 of 2017 — Securities and Futures (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by sections 197 and 198 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2016

First Reading         : 7 November 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2017

Commencement          : 8 October 2018 (section 197)

14. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 22 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               iv

Commencement   : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                     with item 22 of the Schedule)

15. Act 1 of 2020 — Banking (Amendment) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 47 of the above Act)

Bill           : 35/2019

First Reading  : 4 November 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 January 2020

Commencement   : 1 July 2021 (section 47)

16. 2020 Revised Edition — Commodity Trading Act 1992

Operation      : 31 December 2021

17. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 97 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
       COMPARATIVE TABLE
COMMODITY TRADING ACT 1992

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.           2009 Ed.
4—(2)
                            4—(1A)
   (3)                         (2)
8—(2)
                            8—(1A)
   (3)                         (2)
12—(2)
                            12—(1A)
   (3)                         (2)
13—(2)
                            13—(1A)
   (3)                         (2)
   (4)                         (3)
   (5)                         (4)
65
[Omitted as spent]          65—(1)
[Omitted as spent]             (2)
[Omitted as spent]
                            66—(1)
                               (2)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
