THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             STRATEGIC GOODS (CONTROL)
                               ACT 2002

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                                                                    2020 Ed.

          Strategic Goods (Control)
                    Act 2002

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
     1.   Interpretation
     2.   [Repealed]
     3.   Appointment of authorised officers and senior authorised
     4.   officers
          Strategic goods and strategic goods technology
     4A.

                                            PART 2

TRANSFER AND BROKERING OF STRATEGIC GOODS AND STRATEGIC
                                 GOODS TECHNOLOGY

     5. Transfer of strategic goods, etc.
     6. Brokering of strategic goods, etc.
     7. Permits
     8. Registration
     9. Breach of condition of permit or registration an offence

                                        PART 3

                     INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS

10. Information and records on any act requiring permit or
         registration

11. Senior authorised officer may seek information
12. Confidentiality

                                        PART 4
                                  ENFORCEMENT
13. Preliminary provision

                                                      1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                        2

Section   Search warrant
          When search may be made without warrant
   14.    Power to search conveyance
   15.    Duties of authorised officer, etc., upon seizure
   16.    Access to computer information
   17.    Use of force
   18.    Obstruction of authorised officer or senior authorised officer
   19.    Power of arrest
   20.
   21.

                                        PART 5

                    PROVISIONS AS TO PROCEEDINGS

22. Jurisdiction of courts
23. Who may prosecute
24. Presumption
25. Proportional examination of goods seized to be accepted by

         courts
26. Protection of informers
27. Forfeiture
28. Cost of enforcement
29. No damages recoverable for seizure unless made without

         reasonable or probable cause

                                        PART 6

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

30. False or misleading document or information
31. Composition of offences
32. Corporate offenders and unincorporated associations
33. Public servants
34. Protection from personal liability
35. Minister may declare whether particular goods are or technology

         is regulated
36. Exemption
37. [Repealed]
38. Regulations

An Act to control the transfer and brokering of strategic goods,
  strategic goods technology, goods and technology capable of being
  used to develop, produce, operate, stockpile or acquire weapons

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Strategic Goods (Control)

3  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

   capable of causing mass destruction, and missiles capable of
   delivering such weapons; and for purposes connected therewith.

                              [1 January 2003]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Strategic Goods (Control) Act 2002.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised officer” means —

              (a) an officer appointed as an authorised officer under
                   section 4; or

              (b) an officer of customs within the meaning of
                   section 3(1) of the Customs Act 1960;

      “bring in transit” means to bring goods from any country into
         Singapore by land, water or air, where the goods are to be
         taken out from Singapore on the same conveyance on which
         they are brought into Singapore without any landing in
         Singapore, but does not include the passage through
         Singapore in accordance with international law of a foreign
         conveyance carrying goods;

      “computer” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Computer Misuse Act 1993;

      “conveyance” includes any vessel, train, vehicle, aircraft or
         other mode of transport;

      “country” includes territory;

      “development”, in relation to any goods, means any stage prior
         to the serial production of the goods, including design, design
         research, design analysis, development of a design concept,
         assembly and testing of a prototype, pilot production,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                 4

          generation of design data, the process of transforming design
          data into a product, configuration design, integration design,
          and layout;

“device” means any tangible medium in which information,
   visual images, sounds or other data is or are recorded, stored
   or embodied in any form so as to be capable (with or without
   the aid of other equipment) of being retrieved or produced
   therefrom;

“Director-General” means the Director‑General of Customs
   appointed under section 4(1) of the Customs Act 1960;

“export” means to take out from Singapore goods by land, water
   or air, and includes the placing of the goods in a conveyance
   for the purpose of taking the goods out from Singapore; but
   does not include the taking out from Singapore of goods that
   have been brought in transit or transhipped;

“foreign country” means a country other than Singapore;

“goods” means any movable or personal property but does not
   include choses in action or money;

“permit” means a permit granted under section 7;

“production”, in relation to any goods, means any stage of
   production of the goods, including construction, production
   engineering, manufacture, integration, assembly, mounting,
   inspection, testing, and quality assurance;

“registered” means registered under section 8;

“relevant activity” means —

          (a) the development, production, handling, operation,
               maintenance, storage, detection, identification or
               dissemination of any nuclear, chemical or
               biological weapon; or

          (b) the development, production, maintenance or storage
               of missiles which are capable of delivering any such
               weapon;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Strategic Goods (Control)

5  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

   “senior authorised officer” means —

   (a) an officer appointed as a senior authorised officer
        under section 4; or

   (b) a senior officer of customs within the meaning of
        section 3(1) of the Customs Act 1960;

   “software” means a collection of one or more programs or
      microprograms recorded, stored or embodied in any device;

   “strategic goods” means any goods prescribed by the Minister as
      strategic goods under section 4A;

   “strategic goods technology” means any technology prescribed
      by the Minister as strategic goods technology under
      section 4A;

   “technology” means information (including information
      comprised in such documents as specifications, blueprints,
      plans, manuals, models, diagrams, formulae, tables and
      designs) that is necessary for the development, production
      or use of any goods, and includes software;

   “through bill of lading”, “through airway bill” and “through
      manifest” mean a bill of lading, airway bill and manifest
      (respectively) for the consignment of goods from a place
      outside Singapore to a destination which is also outside
      Singapore without a consignee in Singapore;

   “tranship” means to remove goods from the conveyance on
      which they were brought into Singapore and to place the
      goods on the same or another conveyance for the purpose of
      taking them out of Singapore, where these acts are carried out
      on a through bill of lading, through airway bill or through
      manifest;

   “transmit”, in relation to any technology, means to —

   (a) transmit it in Singapore by electronic means; or

   (b) make it available in Singapore on a computer,

   so that it becomes accessible (whether on a request, or subject
   to a precondition, or otherwise) to a person in a foreign

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
             Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.         Act 2002                                          6

          country, whether the person is a specific person, a person
          within a specific class, any person in general or the person
          who carries out the transmission;

“use”, in relation to any goods, means the operation, installation,
   maintenance, inspection, repair, overhaul or refurbishing of
   the goods.

                                                                                       [45/2007; 3/2013; 9/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of the definition of the expression “bring in
transit” —

(a) a conveyance is in passage through Singapore in
     accordance with international law if it passes through or
     above Singapore territorial waters or airspace without
     stopping or anchoring in Singapore except in a situation of
     distress; and

(b) a conveyance is a foreign conveyance if it is not registered
     in Singapore.

 (3) In this Act, a reference to a document includes, in addition to
any document or record on paper, a reference to any, or part of any —

(a) document or record in an electronic form or kept on any
     magnetic, optical, chemical or other medium;

(b) photograph;

          (c) map, plan, graph, picture or drawing; or

(d) device.

 (4) A reference in this Act to the value of goods or technology in
respect of which an offence was committed is a reference to the value
of the goods or technology at the time of the commission of the
offence.

3. [Repealed by Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

Appointment of authorised officers and senior authorised
officers

 4. The Minister may appoint any public officer or officer of a
statutory body as an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Strategic Goods (Control)

7  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

for the purposes of this Act or any particular Part or provision of this
Act.

Strategic goods and strategic goods technology

 4A.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe ––

       (a) any military or dual-use goods as strategic goods for the
            purposes of this Act; or

       (b) any military or dual‑use technology as strategic goods
            technology for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [45/2007]

 (2) In subsection (1) ––

      “dual‑use goods” means goods capable of being used for both a
         non-military purpose and a military purpose or relevant
         activity;

      “dual‑use technology” means technology necessary for the
         development, production or use of any dual‑use goods;

      “military goods” means goods solely or predominantly designed
         or modified for a military purpose, including any part or
         component thereof;

      “military technology” means technology necessary for the
         development, production or use of any military goods.

                                                                                                           [45/2007]

   PART 2

TRANSFER AND BROKERING OF STRATEGIC GOODS AND
                STRATEGIC GOODS TECHNOLOGY

Transfer of strategic goods, etc.

   5.—(1) A person must not —

   (a) export, tranship or bring in transit any strategic goods;

   (b) export any document in which any strategic goods
        technology is recorded, stored or embodied; or

   (c) transmit any strategic goods technology.

                                                            [45/2007]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.                 Act 2002                                  8

(2) A person must not —

      (a) export, tranship or bring in transit any goods;

      (b) export any document in which any technology is recorded,
           stored or embodied; or

          (c) transmit any technology,

if —

      (d) the person has been notified by an authorised officer or a
           senior authorised officer that the goods are or technology is
           intended or likely to be used, wholly or in part, for or in
           connection with a relevant activity;

          (e) the person knows that the goods are or technology is
              intended to be used, wholly or in part, for or in connection
              with a relevant activity; or

          (f) the person has reasonable grounds to suspect that the goods
              are or technology is intended or likely to be used, wholly or
              in part, for or in connection with a relevant activity.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to an act authorised by a
permit.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any technology in the
public domain.

                                                                                                           [45/2007]

 (5) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to the export of any
document in which any technology is recorded, stored or embodied,
or to the transmission of any technology, to the extent that this is
necessary to facilitate —

      (a) the installation, operation, maintenance or repair of any
           goods which have been exported, transhipped or brought in
           transit, where a permit has been obtained or is not required
           for such export, transhipment or bringing in transit;

      (b) an application for a patent; or

          (c) any research in the technology the results of which have no
              practical application.

                                                                                                          [45/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
   Strategic Goods (Control)

9  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) Subsection (2)(a) does not apply to the bringing in transit of any
goods with the approval of a senior authorised officer.

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable —

   (a) on a first conviction, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or
        3 times the value of the goods or technology in respect of
        which the offence was committed, whichever is the greater,
        or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
        both; or

   (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
        exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods or
        technology in respect of which the offence was committed,
        whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for a term not
        exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (8) In proceedings for an offence for an act referred to in
subsection (1)(c) or (2)(c), it is a defence for the accused to prove
that, at the time of carrying out the act, the accused did not know nor
have reason to believe that the technology in question would thereby
become accessible to any person in a foreign country.

 (9) In proceedings for an offence in respect of any goods or
technology mentioned in subsection (2)(f), it is a defence for the
accused to prove that the accused has made all reasonable inquiries as
to the use or proposed use of those goods or that technology and is
satisfied from such inquiries that those goods or that technology will
not be used for or in connection with a relevant activity.

Brokering of strategic goods, etc.

 6.—(1) A person must not arrange or negotiate, or do any act to
facilitate the arrangement or negotiation of —

       (a) a contract for the acquisition or disposal of any goods
            mentioned in subsection (2) if the person knows or has
            reason to believe that such a contract will or is likely to
            result in the removal of those goods from one foreign
            country to another foreign country; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.               Act 2002                                    10

(b) a contract for the acquisition, disposal or transmission
     of —

          (i) any technology mentioned in subsection (3); or

          (ii) any document in which such technology is recorded,
               stored or embodied,

(b) if the person knows or has reason to believe that such a
     contract will or is likely to result in the transmission of
     such technology or removal of such document from one
     foreign country to another foreign country.

(2) Subsection (1) applies to —

(a) such strategic goods as the Minister may specify by order
     in the Gazette; or

(b) any goods —

          (i) which that person has been notified by an authorised
              officer or a senior authorised officer are intended or
              likely to be used, wholly or in part, for or in
              connection with a relevant activity;

          (ii) which that person knows are intended to be used,
               wholly or in part, for or in connection with a relevant
               activity; or

            (iii) which that person has reasonable grounds to suspect
                  are intended or likely to be used, wholly or in part,
                  for or in connection with a relevant activity.

                                                                                                         [45/2007]

(3) Subsection (1) applies to ––

(a) such strategic goods technology as the Minister may
     specify by order in the Gazette; and

(b) any technology ––

          (i) which that person has been notified by an authorised
              officer or a senior authorised officer is intended or
              likely to be used, wholly or in part, for or in
              connection with a relevant activity;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                    Strategic Goods (Control)

11                  Act 2002                                  2020 Ed.

    (ii) which that person knows is intended to be used,
         wholly or in part, for or in connection with a relevant
         activity; or

             (iii) which that person has reasonable grounds to suspect
                   is intended or likely to be used, wholly or in part, for
                   or in connection with a relevant activity.

                                                                                                           [45/2007]

 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to any technology in the public
domain.

                                                                                                           [45/2007]

 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply to an act in relation to any
strategic goods mentioned in subsection (2)(a) by a person who is
registered.

(6) Subsection (1) does not apply to an act in relation to —

    (a) any goods mentioned in subsection (2)(b); or

    (b) any technology mentioned in subsection (3), or any
         document in which the technology is recorded, stored or
         embodied,

that is authorised by a permit.

 (7) Subsection (1) does not apply to any person whose sole
involvement in the acquisition or disposal of the goods, technology or
document, or the transmission of the technology, is the provision
of —

    (a) transportation service;

    (b) financing or financial service;

    (c) insurance;

    (d) advertising service to the extent that it involves the
         dissemination of information that is generally available
         to the public; or

    (e) any other service that may be prescribed.

 (8) Subsection (1) does not apply to any contract for the acquisition,
disposal or transmission of any technology, or of any document in
which any technology is recorded, stored or embodied, to the extent

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.                Act 2002                                   12

that such acquisition, disposal or transmission is necessary to
facilitate —

(a) the installation, operation, maintenance or repair in any
     foreign country of any goods which are not strategic goods;

(b) an application for a patent; or

       (c) any research in the technology or part, the results of which
            have no practical application.

                                                                                                           [45/2007]

 (9) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

(a) on a first conviction, to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or
     3 times the value of the goods or technology in respect of
     which the offence was committed, whichever is the greater,
     or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
     both; and

(b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
     exceeding $200,000 or 4 times the value of the goods or
     technology in respect of which the offence was committed,
     whichever is the greater, or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (10) In proceedings for an offence in respect of any goods
mentioned in subsection (2)(b)(iii) or any technology mentioned in
subsection (3)(b)(iii), it is a defence for the accused to prove that the
accused has made all reasonable inquiries as to the use or proposed
use of those goods or that technology and is satisfied from such
inquiries that those goods or that technology will not be used for or in
connection with a relevant activity.

(11) In this section —

“acquisition”, in relation to any goods, technology or document,
   means the purchase, hire or borrowing of the goods,
   technology or document, or the acceptance of the goods,
   technology or document as a gift;

“disposal”, in relation to any goods, technology or document,
   means the sale, letting on hire or lending of the goods,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

13  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

    technology or document, or the giving of the goods,
    technology or document as a gift.

Permits

 7.—(1) An application for a permit to carry out an act —

       (a) referred to in section 5(1) or (2); or

       (b) referred to in section 6(1) in relation to —

               (i) any goods mentioned in section 6(2)(b); or

              (ii) any technology mentioned in section 6(3) or any
                   document in which such technology is recorded,
                   stored or embodied,

must be made to the Director‑General.

 (2) An application for a permit must be made in the manner and
form that the Director‑General may determine, and must be
accompanied by any fee that may be prescribed.

 (3) The Director-General may, subject to the regulations made
under subsection (7), grant a permit to the applicant and may impose
such conditions on the applicant as the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (4) The Director-General may, subject to the regulations made
under subsection (7), renew a permit with or without conditions, or
cancel a permit.

 (5) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Director‑General not to
grant or renew a permit, or to cancel a permit, may appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (6) The Director-General may delegate any of his or her powers
under this section to a senior authorised officer.

 (7) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the class or
classes of permits that may be granted, the time, form and manner of
application for a permit, the conditions of a permit, the circumstances
under which an application may be granted or refused, or a permit
may be cancelled, renewed or replaced, and the fees payable in
respect thereof.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
              Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.      Act 2002                                             14

Registration

 8.—(1) An application for registration to carry out an act referred to
in section 6(1) in relation to goods mentioned in section 6(2)(a) must
be made to the Director‑General in the manner and form that the
Director‑General may determine, and must be accompanied by any
fee that may be prescribed.

 (2) The Director-General may, subject to the regulations made
under subsection (6), register the applicant and may impose such
conditions on the applicant as the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (3) The Director-General may, subject to the regulations made
under subsection (6), renew any registration with or without
conditions, or cancel or suspend any registration.

 (4) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Director‑General not to
register the person or renew the person’s registration, or to cancel or
suspend the person’s registration, may appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (5) The Director-General may delegate any of his or her powers
under this section to a senior authorised officer.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe different
classes of registration, the time, form and manner of application for
registration, the duration of any registration, the conditions of
registration, the circumstances under which an application may be
granted or refused, or any registration may be suspended, cancelled,
extended or renewed, and the fees payable in respect thereof.

Breach of condition of permit or registration an offence

 9. If any person who holds a permit or who is registered
contravenes, without lawful excuse, a condition of the permit or
registration that is prescribed under section 7(7) or 8(6), that person
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

15  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 3

    INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS

Information and records on any act requiring permit or
registration

 10.—(1) A person who carries out any act under the authority of a
permit, or in respect of which the person is registered, must —

    (a) give to a senior authorised officer, in the prescribed form
         and at the prescribed time, the prescribed particulars in
         respect of that act;

    (b) keep records in relation to that act that are required by
         regulations made under this Act; and

    (c) prepare and give to a senior authorised officer from such
        records, any reports that are required by regulations made
        under this Act.

 (2) Any person who refuses or fails, without reasonable cause, to
comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) The regulations relating to the keeping of records mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) may include regulations relating to —

    (a) the form and content of those records; and

    (b) the period for which those records are to be kept.

 (4) The regulations relating to the preparation and giving of reports
mentioned in subsection (1)(c) may include regulations relating to —

    (a) the form and content of those reports;

    (b) the time within which those reports are to be made; and

    (c) the persons who are to sign those reports.

Senior authorised officer may seek information

 11.—(1) This section applies if a senior authorised officer considers
that any person is capable of giving information relating to any act
referred to in section 5, 6 or 9.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                 16

 (2) The senior authorised officer may, by written notice given to a
person mentioned in subsection (1), require the person to give such
information to the senior authorised officer within such reasonable
period and in such manner as is specified in the notice.

 (3) The senior authorised officer may, by written notice given to a
person mentioned in subsection (1), require the person to give the
senior authorised officer particular documents, or documents of a
particular kind, specified in the notice, within a reasonable period that
is specified in the notice.

 (4) Any person who refuses or fails, without reasonable cause, to
comply with a notice under this section to the extent that the person is
capable of complying with it shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (5) The power of a senior authorised officer under this section to
require a person to give information or documents to the senior
authorised officer is in addition to any obligation to give information
or documents that the person may have under section 10.

Confidentiality

 12.—(1) Any information or document given under this Part must
not, except with the prior consent in writing of the person having the
control, management or superintendence of the thing in relation to
which the information or document was given —

       (a) be published; or

       (b) be communicated or disclosed to any other person,

except where it is necessary —

       (c) for the purposes of an investigation into or prosecution for
            an offence under this Act or any other written law; or

       (d) to enable a foreign government authority to investigate or
            prosecute a person for an offence committed in a foreign
            country, if the conditions specified in subsection (2) are
            satisfied.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

17  Act 2002                                             2020 Ed.

(2) The conditions mentioned in subsection (1)(d) are —

    (a) that the offence involves strategic goods or strategic goods
         technology, or anything that may be used to develop,
         produce, operate, stockpile or acquire any nuclear,
         chemical or biological weapon or a missile capable of
         delivering such weapon;

    (b) that the communication or disclosure is not likely to
         prejudice the sovereignty, security or other essential
         interests of Singapore;

    (c) that the information is used only for the investigation or
        prosecution for which it was requested and the foreign
        government authority undertakes to abide by any condition
        imposed by the Minister on the use of the information; and

    (d) any other conditions that the Minister may prescribe.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                    PART 4
                              ENFORCEMENT
Preliminary provision
 13.—(1) In this Part, “premises” means any land, place or building,
whether open or enclosed, and whether built on or not, and includes
any free trade zone within the meaning of the Free Trade Zones
Act 1966.
 (2) To avoid doubt, the provisions of this Part have effect despite
the provisions of the Free Trade Zones Act 1966.

Search warrant
 14.—(1) If a Magistrate is satisfied, on information given upon

oath, that there is reasonable cause to believe that there is in any
premises any article or document which is evidence that an offence
under section 5, 6 or 9 has been, is being or is about to be committed,

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                 18

the Magistrate may issue a warrant in writing authorising an
authorised officer or a senior authorised officer to enter the
premises, at any time within one month from the time of the issue
of the warrant, to search them.

 (2) An authorised officer or a senior authorised officer who enters
the premises under the authority of the warrant may —

(a) take with him or her any other person and any equipment
     that appear to him or her to be necessary;

(b) rummage and search all parts of the premises for any such
     article or document;

          (c) inspect any document which he or she has reasonable cause
              to believe is such document, and make copies of, or seize
              and remove, such document;

(d) inspect, seize and remove any article found on the premises
     which he or she has reasonable cause to believe to be such
     article; and

          (e) search or cause to be searched any person found on the
              premises whom he or she has reasonable cause to believe
              to be in possession of any such article or document.

(3) No woman or girl may be searched except by a woman.

When search may be made without warrant

 15. If a senior authorised officer has reasonable cause to believe
that —

       (a) there is in any premises any article or document which is
            evidence that an offence under section 5 or 6 has been, is
            being or is about to be committed; and

       (b) the article or document is likely to be removed by reason of
            a delay in obtaining a search warrant under section 14,

he or she may exercise all the powers mentioned in section 14 as if he
or she were authorised to do so by a warrant issued under that section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

19  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

Power to search conveyance

 16.—(1) A senior authorised officer, or an authorised officer acting
in accordance with the general or special directions of a senior
authorised officer, may board any conveyance in Singapore and may
rummage and search all parts of the conveyance for any article or
document in respect of which an offence under section 5 or 6 has
been, is being or is about to be committed.

 (2) For the more effective exercise of the powers under
subsection (1), the authorised officer or senior authorised officer
may —

    (a) require the master of any vessel or the captain of any
         aircraft to give such information relating to the vessel or
         aircraft, cargo, stores, crew, passengers or voyage as the
         authorised officer or senior authorised officer may
         consider necessary;

    (b) by direction to the master of any vessel or the pilot of any
         aircraft, require the vessel or aircraft (as the case may be)
         not to proceed until so authorised;

    (c) require any document which ought to be on board any
        vessel or aircraft to be brought to him or her for inspection
        and, if he or she has reasonable cause to believe that the
        document is evidence of the commission of an offence
        under section 5 or 6, to make copies of, or seize and
        remove, the document; and

    (d) require the person in charge of a vehicle —

    (i) to stop and not to proceed until so authorised; or

    (ii) to bring the vehicle to any premises prescribed by the
         Minister as an examinations station for the purposes
         of this section.

 (3) The authorised officer or senior authorised officer may seize
and remove any article or document in respect of which he or she has
reasonable cause for believing that an offence under section 5 or 6 has
been, is being or is about to be committed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                 20

Duties of authorised officer, etc., upon seizure

 17.—(1) Whenever any article or document is seized and removed
under section 14, 15 or 16, the authorised officer or senior authorised
officer (as the case may be) must give written notice of the seizure
and removal and the grounds thereof to the owner of the article or
document (if known) either by delivering the notice to him or her
personally or by post at his or her business or residential address, if
known.

 (2) The notice need not be given if the seizure is made on the person
or in the presence of the offender or the owner or the owner’s agent.

Access to computer information

 18.—(1) In connection with the exercise of his or her powers under
section 14, 15 or 16, an authorised officer or a senior authorised
officer —

       (a) is entitled at any time to have access to, and inspect and
            check the operation of, any computer and any associated
            device, apparatus or material which is or has been in use in
            connection with any document to which section 14, 15 or
            16 applies; and

       (b) may require —

               (i) the person by whom or on whose behalf the
                   computer is or has been so used; or

              (ii) any person having charge of, or otherwise concerned
                   with the operation of, the computer, device,
                   apparatus or material,

       (b) to provide the authorised officer or senior authorised
            officer with any reasonable assistance that he or she may
            require for the purposes of paragraph (a).

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
              Strategic Goods (Control)

21            Act 2002                                       2020 Ed.

Use of force

 19. If, for the purposes of the exercise of any power under
section 14, 15 or 16, force is required to enter any premises or board
any conveyance (whether by breaking down a door or otherwise) or
gain access to anything on or in the premises or conveyance, the
authorised officer or senior authorised officer may use such force as is
reasonable in the circumstances.

Obstruction of authorised officer or senior authorised officer

 20. Any person who, without lawful excuse —

       (a) refuses an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer,
            or a person acting in his or her assistance, access to any
            conveyance or premises to which the officer is entitled
            under this Part;

       (b) obstructs or hinders an authorised officer or a senior
            authorised officer, or a person acting in his or her
            assistance, in the execution of any power conferred upon
            that officer by this Part; or

       (c) refuses to provide reasonable assistance to an authorised
            officer or a senior authorised officer, or a person acting in
            his or her assistance, in the execution of any power
            conferred upon that officer by this Part, when required to
            do so by that officer or person,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Power of arrest

 21.—(1) An authorised officer or a senior authorised officer may —

       (a) arrest without warrant any person whom he or she has
            reason to believe to be committing or to have committed an
            offence under section 5 or 6; and

       (b) search the person arrested and seize anything which he or
            she reasonably considers to be evidence of the commission
            of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                 22

(2) No woman or girl may be searched except by a woman.

 (3) Where the authorised officer or senior authorised officer makes
an arrest without warrant, he or she must, without unnecessary delay,
produce the person arrested before a Magistrate.

 (4) The authorised officer or senior authorised officer must not
detain in custody a person arrested without a warrant for a longer
period than is reasonable under the circumstances of the case.

 (5) Such period must not exceed 48 hours, excluding the time for
any necessary journey to the Magistrate’s Court.

                                    PART 5

                PROVISIONS AS TO PROCEEDINGS

Jurisdiction of courts

 22. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to
try any offence under this Act and has power to impose the full
penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

Who may prosecute

 23. Prosecutions for offences under this Act may, with the
authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by a senior
authorised officer authorised in writing by the Minister for this
purpose.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Presumption

 24. If any goods are found in or on any conveyance, it is, until the
contrary is proved, presumed in any proceedings under this Act that
the goods have been transported in or on that conveyance with the
knowledge of the master, pilot, captain or person having control of
the conveyance, as the case may be.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

23  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

Proportional examination of goods seized to be accepted by
courts

 25.—(1) When any goods have been seized under section 14, 15
or 16, it is sufficient to open, examine and, if necessary, test the
contents of a proportion of the goods seized that the authorised officer
or senior authorised officer (as the case may be) may determine.

 (2) The court is to presume, unless the contrary is shown, that the
goods contained in the unopened packages or receptacles are of the
same nature, quantity and quality as those found in similar packages
or receptacles which have been opened.

Protection of informers

 26.—(1) No witness in any proceedings for an offence under
section 5 or 6 is obliged or permitted to disclose the name or address
of an informer or the substance of the information received from the
informer or to state any matter which might lead to the informer’s
discovery.

 (2) If any document which is in evidence or liable to inspection in
any proceedings contains any entry in which any informer is named
or described or which might lead to the informer’s discovery, the
court must cause the entry to be concealed from view or to be
obliterated so far only as may be necessary to protect the informer
from discovery.

 (3) If, during any proceedings —

       (a) the court, after full inquiry into the case, believes that the
            informer wilfully made in his or her complaint a material
            statement which he or she knew or believed to be false or
            did not believe to be true; or

       (b) the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done
            between the parties to those proceedings without the
            discovery of the informer,

it is lawful for the court to require the production of the original
complaint, if in writing, and permit inquiry, and require full
disclosure of the informer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
             Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.     Act 2002                                              24

Forfeiture

 27.—(1) A court may order that anything shown to the court’s
satisfaction to be the subject matter of an offence under section 5 or 6
or to have been used in the commission of such an offence must be
forfeited to the Government, and either destroyed or otherwise dealt
with in such manner as the court may order.

 (2) In particular, the court may order the thing to be dealt with as the
Director‑General may see fit and in such a case the Director‑General
may direct that it be destroyed or otherwise dealt with.

(3) Where —

(a) the court proposes to order any thing to be forfeited under
     this section; and

(b) a person claiming to have an interest in the thing applied to
     be heard by the court,

the court must not order the thing to be forfeited unless that person
has been given an opportunity to show cause why the order should not
be made.

 (4) The court may make an order of forfeiture even though no
person has been charged with or convicted of an offence under
section 5 or 6 in relation to the thing to be forfeited.

Cost of enforcement

 28. Where a person has been convicted by a court for an offence
under section 5 or 6, the court may order that person to pay reasonable
costs of any enforcement action taken by an authorised officer or a
senior authorised officer in respect of the offence, including any cost
of storage of the subject matter of the offence or anything used in the
commission of the offence.

No damages recoverable for seizure unless made without
reasonable or probable cause

 29. No person is, in any proceedings before any court in respect of
the seizure of anything under any provision of Part 4, entitled to the
costs of the proceedings or to any damages or other relief other than

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

25  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

an order for the return of that thing or the payment of its value, unless
the seizure was made without reasonable or probable cause.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

False or misleading document or information

 30.—(1) Any person who, in connection with an application for a
permit or registration, or being required under Part 3 to give any
information or document to an authorised officer or a senior
authorised officer —

       (a) gives any information that is false or misleading in a
            material particular; or

       (b) gives any document which contains a statement or omits
            any matter which renders it false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that the accused has taken all
reasonable steps to ascertain, and satisfy himself, herself or itself of,
the truth of the matter in question.

Composition of offences

 31.—(1) A senior authorised officer may compound any offence
under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

Corporate offenders and unincorporated associations

 32.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
             Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.               Act 2002                                    26

connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of an
officer of the body corporate, the officer as well as the body corporate
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of the body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) is to apply in relation to the acts and defaults
of a member in connection with the member’s functions of
management as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or
to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, a partner, the partner as
well as the partnership shall be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved to
have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be
attributable to any neglect on the part of, an officer of the association
or a member of its governing body, the officer or member as well as
the association shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means a director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
               of the body or person purporting to act in any such
               capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the secretary
               or a member of the committee of the association and
               includes persons holding positions analogous to
               those of president, secretary or member of a
               committee;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
    Strategic Goods (Control)

27  Act 2002                                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) Regulations may provide for the application of any provision of
this section, with such modifications as the Minister considers
appropriate, to a body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Public servants

 33. All authorised officers and senior authorised officers are
deemed to be public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Protection from personal liability

 34. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any authorised officer or senior authorised officer, or any person
acting under his or her direction, for anything which is in good faith
done or intended to be done in the execution or purported execution
of this Act or any other written law.

Minister may declare whether particular goods are or
technology is regulated

 35.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, declare
that —

       (a) goods specified in the notification are or are not strategic
            goods; or

       (b) technology specified in the notification is or is not strategic
            goods technology.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under this Act alleged to have
been committed after the publication of a notification mentioned in
subsection (1) in relation to goods or technology specified in the
notification, the notification is prima facie evidence of the matter
stated in it.

Exemption
 36. The Minister may, by regulations, exempt —
       (a) any person or class of persons; or
       (b) any activity in respect of all goods or technology, or goods
            or technology of a specified nature or description,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
          Strategic Goods (Control)

2020 Ed.  Act 2002                                                 28

from all or any of the provisions of this Act, subject to such terms or
conditions as may be prescribed.

37. [Repealed by Act 45 of 2007]

Regulations

 38. The Minister may make regulations —

       (a) to prohibit the issue of a port clearance to the master of any
            vessel pending compliance with any provision of the
            regulations;

       (b) to provide for the registration of any strategic goods to be
            exported, transhipped or brought in transit;

       (c) to prescribe offences in respect of the contravention of any
            regulations made under this section, and to prescribe fines
            not exceeding $10,000 that may, on conviction, be imposed
            in respect of any such offence; and

       (d) to prescribe anything which is required or permitted to be
            prescribed under this Act or is necessary or expedient to be
            prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the
            provisions of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
                LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           STRATEGIC GOODS (CONTROL)
                          ACT 2002

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 40 of 2002 — Strategic Goods (Control) Act 2002

Bill            : 44/2002

First Reading   : 31 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 25 November 2002

Commencement    : 1 January 2003

2. Act 6 of 2003 — International Enterprise Singapore Board (Amendment)
                        Act 2003

   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill            : 5/2003

First Reading   : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

Commencement    : 1 April 2003 (section 3 read with
                      item (3) of the Schedule)

3. 2003 Revised Edition — Strategic Goods (Control) Act (Chapter 300)

Operation       : 31 July 2003

4. Act 45 of 2007 — Strategic Goods (Control) (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill            : 35/2007

First Reading   : 27 August 2007

Second and Third Readings : 19 September 2007

Commencement    : 1 January 2008

5. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 104 of the Sixth Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
               ii

Third Reading  : 19 May 2010

Commencement   : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                     item 104 of the Sixth Schedule)

6. Act 3 of 2013 — Computer Misuse (Amendment) Act 2013
   (Amendments made by section 5 read with item 7 of the Schedule to the above
   Act)

Bill           : 36/2012

First Reading  : 12 November 2012

Second and Third Readings : 14 January 2013

Commencement   : 13 March 2013 (section 5 read with
                     item 7 of the Schedule)

7. Act 9 of 2018 — Cybersecurity Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 50(12) of the above Act)

Bill           : 2/2018

First Reading  : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement   : 31 August 2018 (section 50(12))

8. 2020 Revised Edition — Strategic Goods (Control)
                                    Act 2002

Operation      : 31 December 2021

9. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill           : 44/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 July 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2025
