THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              EDUCATION ENDOWMENT AND
                SAVINGS SCHEMES ACT 1992

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
                                                                 2020 Ed.

Education Endowment and
Savings Schemes Act 1992

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                   EDUCATION ENDOWMENT SCHEME

 3. Establishment of Edusave Endowment Fund
 4. Capital money of Endowment Fund
 5. Mode of payment out of Endowment Fund
 6. Application of income of Endowment Fund
 7. Establishment of Edusave Pupils Fund
 8. Members of Edusave Pupils Fund
 9. Contributions and interest to be paid to members of Edusave

         Pupils Fund
10. Cash grant
11. Advisory Council
12. Functions of Council

                                        PART 3

             WITHDRAWAL FROM EDUSAVE PUPILS FUND

13. Conditions for withdrawal from Edusave Pupils Fund
14. Closure of Edusave account, etc.
15. Donation of member’s moneys in Edusave Pupils Fund
16. Applications for withdrawal from Edusave Pupils Fund
17. Protection of benefits of member of Edusave Pupils Fund
18. Moneys payable on death of member of Edusave Pupils Fund

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                      2

          PART 3A

          POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION SCHEME

Section   Establishment of Post-Secondary Education Fund
          Members of PSE Fund
   19.    Contributions and interest to be paid to members of PSE Fund
   20.
   21.

                                       PART 3B

                      WITHDRAWAL FROM PSE FUND

22. Conditions for withdrawal from PSE Fund
23. Donation of member’s moneys in PSE Fund
24. Transfer of member’s moneys in PSE Fund
25. Applications for withdrawal or transfer from PSE account
26. Protection of benefits of member of PSE Fund
27. Moneys payable on death of member of PSE Fund

                                        PART 4

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

28. Expenses
29. Financial year
30. Accounts to be kept
31. Appointment, powers and duties of auditor
32. Failure to provide information to auditor
33. Presentation of financial statements, auditor’s report and annual

         report to Parliament
34. Offences
35. Regulations

         The Schedule — Advisory Council

An Act to establish an education endowment scheme and a scheme to
  promote savings for post-secondary education, and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                              [1 January 1993]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
             Education Endowment and

3            Savings Schemes Act 1992                       2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Education Endowment and Savings Schemes Act
1992.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Council” means the Advisory Council established under
         section 11;

      “Edusave account” means an Edusave account maintained under
         section 7(3);

      “Edusave Pupils Fund” means the Edusave Pupils Fund
         established under section 7(1);

      “Edusave Qualifying Ages” means the range of ages prescribed
         by regulations to be the Edusave Qualifying Ages;

      “Edusave Scheme Administrator” means the public officer
         appointed under section 7(2) by the Minister to administer the
         Edusave Pupils Fund on the Minister’s behalf;

      “Endowment Fund” means the Edusave Endowment Fund
         established under section 3(1);

      “junior college”, in relation to a member of the Edusave Pupils
         Fund, means any of the following which is not a prescribed
         school:

              (a) a junior college that is organised and conducted
                   directly by the Government to provide full‑time
                   pre‑university education;

              (b) a junior college that is established by a person other
                   than the Government and is conducted by a
                   committee of management in receipt of a
                   grant‑in‑aid from the Government to defray the
                   costs and expenses of conducting the junior college
                   to provide full‑time pre‑university education;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 4

          (c) a centralised institute that provides full‑time
              pre‑university education;

          (d) any other educational institution providing full‑time
               pre‑university education that may be prescribed as a
               junior college;

“parent” includes a legal guardian;

“prescribed school”, in relation to a member of the Edusave
   Pupils Fund, means —

          (a) an institution for providing full-time primary or
               secondary education, being —

          (i) a school organised and conducted directly by
              the Government;

          (ii) a school specified in any order made under
               section 3(1) of the School Boards
               (Incorporation) Act 1990; or

          (iii) a school that is established by a person other
                than the Government and is conducted by a
                committee of management in receipt of a
                grant‑in‑aid from the Government to defray
                the costs and expenses of conducting the
                school; or

          (b) any other educational institution that may be
               prescribed as a prescribed school;

“PSE account” means a PSE account maintained under
   section 19(3);

“PSE Fund” means the Post-Secondary Education Fund
   established under section 19(1);

“PSE Scheme Administrator” means the public officer
   appointed by the Minister to administer the PSE Fund on
   behalf of the Minister;

“schooling” means enrolled as a full-time student of a prescribed
   school or a junior college;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
   Education Endowment and

5  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

      “sibling”, in relation to a member of the PSE Fund, means the
         natural sibling, stepsibling or adopted sibling of the member.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, the time at which an individual
attains a particular age expressed in years is the relevant anniversary
of the date of that individual’s birth, except that where an individual
was born on 29 February in any year, then, in any subsequent year
that is not a leap year, the anniversary of the birth of the individual is
deemed to occur on 1 March of that subsequent year.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

                                    PART 2

               EDUCATION ENDOWMENT SCHEME

Establishment of Edusave Endowment Fund

 3.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a fund called the Edusave
Endowment Fund is established, into which must be paid —

       (a) all capital moneys provided by Parliament pursuant to this
            Act;

       (b) all the income of that Fund;

       (c) any moneys which the Minister has authorised under
            section 7(5) to be transferred from the Edusave Pupils
            Fund; and

       (d) all donations to that Fund made under section 15,

and out of which must be met all payments authorised to be made
under this Act.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) The Minister is responsible for the administration of the
Endowment Fund, and all moneys belonging to that Fund may be
deposited in any bank and invested in any investment authorised
under the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

 (3) The Endowment Fund is deemed to be a Government fund for
the purposes of any written law.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 6

Capital money of Endowment Fund

 4.—(1) On 1 January 1993, the Government must pay into the
Endowment Fund as capital money a sum determined by the Minister
for Finance out of moneys provided by Parliament.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister for Finance may, from
time to time, pay into the Endowment Fund such sums of capital
money as the Minister may determine out of moneys to be provided
by Parliament.

 (3) The capital moneys of the Endowment Fund must not be used
for any purpose other than for investment.

 (4) Where at any time there is a permanent diminution of the capital
moneys of the Endowment Fund, the Minister must, before paying
out the income of the Endowment Fund, make good the diminution
from the income of the Endowment Fund.

Mode of payment out of Endowment Fund

 5. A payment must not be made out of the Endowment Fund unless
the payment is authorised by the Minister.

Application of income of Endowment Fund

 6.—(1) The income of the Endowment Fund may be paid out and
applied for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) for the provision of grants to any educational institution
            prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph, to enable it to
            enhance its quality of teaching;

       (b) for the provision of scholarships to full‑time students at
            any educational institution prescribed for the purposes of
            this paragraph;

       (c) for the provision of contributions and additional income to
            the Edusave Pupils Fund;

       (d) for any other purposes as are authorised under this Act or
            as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
   Education Endowment and

7  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purpose of providing additional income to the
Endowment Fund, the Minister for Finance may, from time to
time, pay to that Fund such sum of money as Parliament may provide,
and such sum of money is not regarded as forming any part of the
capital moneys of that Fund.

Establishment of Edusave Pupils Fund

 7.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a fund called the Edusave
Pupils Fund is established, into which must be paid —

       (a) all contributions under section 9;

       (b) all the income of that Fund; and

       (c) any cash grant made by the Government,

and out of which must be met all payments authorised to be made
under this Act.

 (2) A public officer who is appointed by the Minister as the
Edusave Scheme Administrator must administer the Edusave Pupils
Fund on behalf of the Minister, and all moneys belonging to that Fund
may be —

       (a) deposited in any bank approved by the Edusave Scheme
            Administrator; and

       (b) invested in any securities that trustees may by any written
            law be authorised to invest.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) The Edusave Scheme Administrator must maintain for each
member of the Edusave Pupils Fund in respect of the money standing
to the member’s credit in that Fund an account called the Edusave
account from which withdrawals may be made under section 13 or
14.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4) The Edusave Scheme Administrator has the powers and must
perform the duties given or imposed by this Act or directed by the
Minister, and the Minister or the Edusave Scheme Administrator may
by instrument in writing delegate to any person all or any of those

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 8

powers and duties, except the power of delegation conferred by this
subsection.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (5) The Minister may authorise the transfer to the Endowment Fund
of any moneys in the Edusave Pupils Fund which, in the Minister’s
opinion, are not immediately required to meet the purposes of the
Edusave Pupils Fund, and those moneys form part of the income of
the Endowment Fund.

Members of Edusave Pupils Fund

 8.—(1) Every individual who —

       (a) is a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) is schooling or, if not schooling, is between the Edusave
            Qualifying Ages; and

       (c) satisfies any other requirements that may be prescribed,

is and remains, by virtue of this section, a member of the Edusave
Pupils Fund until the individual’s membership ceases under
section 14.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) An individual who is a member of the PSE Fund or, if the
member of the PSE Fund is below 21 years of age, any parent of that
member, may apply to the Edusave Scheme Administrator for the
individual to resume membership of the Edusave Pupils Fund.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) The Edusave Scheme Administrator may approve an
application under subsection (2) for an individual who is a member
of the PSE Fund to resume membership of the Edusave Pupils Fund,
with effect from a date specified by the Edusave Scheme
Administrator, if the Edusave Scheme Administrator is satisfied
that the individual —

       (a) is a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) is schooling;

       (c) had ceased to be a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund by
            virtue of section 14(6) read with section 14(1)(a), (b) or
            (c); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
   Education Endowment and

9  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

       (d) satisfies any other requirements that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4) An individual who resumes membership of the Edusave Pupils
Fund under this section may continue to be a member of the PSE
Fund in accordance with Parts 3A and 3B.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (5) An application under subsection (2) must be supported by any
documents or evidence that the Edusave Scheme Administrator may
require.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Contributions and interest to be paid to members of Edusave
Pupils Fund

 9.—(1) It is lawful for the Edusave Scheme Administrator to pay
out of the income of the Endowment Fund to any member of the
Edusave Pupils Fund, in each year, a single contribution of an amount
prescribed for that year if, at any time during that year, the member —

       (a) is a full-time student of a prescribed school and receiving
            primary or secondary education; or

       (b) is between the Edusave Qualifying Ages, if the member is
            not schooling at any time during that year.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) The Edusave Scheme Administrator must also cause to be paid
out of the income of the Edusave Pupils Fund to the Edusave account
of each member of that Fund, at intervals determined by the Edusave
Scheme Administrator, interest at the rate referred to in subsection (6)
on the amount standing to the member’s credit in the member’s
Edusave account.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) The amount of contribution that a member of the Edusave
Pupils Fund is eligible to receive under subsection (1) in a year is as
follows:

       (a) for an individual who becomes such a member for the first
            time under section 8(1), the amount prescribed for the
            member (or the class to which the member belongs) on the
            date the individual first becomes a member;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 10

       (b) for any other member, the amount prescribed for the
            member (or the class to which the member belongs) on the
            qualifying date in the year prescribed for that member (or
            the class to which that member belongs).

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4) Unless the member dies, the amount of contribution that a
member of the Edusave Pupils Fund is eligible to receive under
subsection (1) in a year must be paid —

(a) not later than 31 January in that year in the case of a
     member mentioned in subsection (1)(a);

(b) not later than 30 April in that year in the case of a member
     mentioned in subsection (1)(b); or

       (c) despite paragraphs (a) and (b), as soon as practicable after
            the date the individual first becomes a member of the
            Edusave Pupils Fund in the case of a member mentioned in
            subsection (3)(a).

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (5) Where a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund belongs to 2 or
more classes on the qualifying date prescribed for any year, the
Edusave Scheme Administrator may, for the purposes of this section,
determine that the member belongs for that year to the class the
Edusave Scheme Administrator considers appropriate; and the
Edusave Scheme Administrator’s decision is final.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (6) Interest is payable on the amount standing to the credit of every
member of the Edusave Pupils Fund in his or her Edusave account at
such rate per annum as the Minister may from time to time determine.

 (7) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, prescribe for each
year —

(a) different amounts of contributions for different members
     or different classes of members of the Edusave Pupils
     Fund; and

(b) different qualifying dates in the year for different members
     or different classes of members of the Edusave Pupils Fund
     for the purposes of subsection (3)(b).

                                                                                                 [33/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
            Education Endowment and

11          Savings Schemes Act 1992                         2020 Ed.

Cash grant

 10. The Edusave Scheme Administrator must also pay to the
Edusave account of any member of the Edusave Pupils Fund such
cash grant as the Government may make, if the member satisfies the
eligibility criteria the Government determines for that cash grant.

                                                                              [9A

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Advisory Council

 11.—(1) An Advisory Council is established for the purposes of
advising the Minister as to the application of the income of the
Endowment Fund.

 (2) The Council consists of at least 3 but not more than 7 members
to be appointed by the Minister.

 (3) The Minister must appoint one of the members as chairperson.

 (4) The Schedule has effect with respect to the Council.
                                                                               [10

Functions of Council

 12. The Council must from time to time make recommendations to
the Minister on all matters relating to the application of the income of
the Endowment Fund.

                                                                               [11

                                    PART 3

         WITHDRAWAL FROM EDUSAVE PUPILS FUND

Conditions for withdrawal from Edusave Pupils Fund

 13.—(1) Any money standing to the credit of any member of the
Edusave Pupils Fund in his or her Edusave account may be
withdrawn from that Fund with the authority of the Edusave
Scheme Administrator in accordance with this section and section 14.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) Subject to this section, the parent of a member of the Edusave
Pupils Fund below 21 years of age, or a member of that Fund who has

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 12

attained 21 years of age, is entitled to withdraw at any time the sum
standing to the member’s credit in his or her Edusave account for the
following purposes:

(a) where the member is schooling, to defray the whole or part
     of the member’s expenses as may be necessary to enable
     the member to take part in any enrichment programme
     approved by the prescribed school or junior college at
     which the member is schooling;

(b) for any other prescribed purpose.

                                                                       [12

                                                                   [33/2014]

Closure of Edusave account, etc.

 14.—(1) The Edusave Scheme Administrator must, as soon as
practicable after the happening of the first of the following events
concerning a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund, transfer all
balances in the member’s Edusave account to the member’s PSE
account:

       (a) if the member is not schooling, at the start of the year
            immediately after the year in which the member attains the
            highest of the Edusave Qualifying Ages;

       (b) if the member is schooling at the start of the year
            immediately after the year in which the member attains
            the highest of the Edusave Qualifying Ages, when the
            member stops schooling;

       (c) where an application under subsection (2) to close the
            member’s Edusave account early is approved under
            subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) An individual who is a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund or,
if the individual is below 21 years of age, any parent of that
individual, may apply to the Edusave Scheme Administrator to close
the individual’s Edusave account early for the purpose of transferring
the balance in the individual’s Edusave account to the individual’s
PSE account.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

13  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) An application under subsection (2) must be supported by any
documents or evidence that the Edusave Scheme Administrator may
require.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4) The Edusave Scheme Administrator may approve an
application under subsection (2) relating to a member of the
Edusave Pupils Fund only if the Edusave Scheme Administrator is
satisfied that the member is enrolled in an approved institution
mentioned in section 22(2)(a).

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (5) The Edusave Scheme Administrator must close a member’s
Edusave account —

    (a) upon completing the transfer of all balances in the
         member’s Edusave account to the member’s PSE
         account under subsection (1); or

       (b) upon payment to the Public Trustee under section 18 of all
            balances in the Edusave account of a deceased member.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (6) An individual ceases to be a member of the Edusave Pupils
Fund when the individual’s Edusave account is closed.

                                                                               [13

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Donation of member’s moneys in Edusave Pupils Fund

 15.—(1) A member of the Edusave Pupils Fund or, if the member is
below 21 years of age, any parent of that member, may by notice
given to the Edusave Scheme Administrator donate to the
Endowment Fund all or part of the sum standing to the member’s
credit in the member’s Edusave account.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) Upon receiving the notice in subsection (1), the Edusave
Scheme Administrator may authorise the payment of the sum, as
stated in the notice, to the Endowment Fund.

                                                                             [13A

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 14

Applications for withdrawal from Edusave Pupils Fund

 16.—(1) Upon an application to withdraw any sum of money
standing to the credit of a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund in the
member’s Edusave account for the purposes in section 13(2), the
Edusave Scheme Administrator may authorise the payment of any
sum that may, under this Act, be withdrawn from the member’s
Edusave account —

(a) in the case of a withdrawal for the purposes in
     section 13(2)(a), to the prescribed school or junior
     college at which the member is schooling; and

       (b) in the case of a withdrawal for the purposes in
            section 13(2)(b), to a person, an educational institution
            or any other entity that may be determined by the Edusave
            Scheme Administrator.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) All applications for withdrawal must be supported by such
evidence as may be prescribed and by any further evidence that the
Edusave Scheme Administrator may reasonably require.

                                                                               [14

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Protection of benefits of member of Edusave Pupils Fund

 17. No withdrawals authorised by the Edusave Scheme
Administrator made from the Edusave Pupils Fund under
section 13, 14 or 15 nor the rights of any member of that Fund
acquired under any of those sections are assignable or transferable or
liable to be attached, sequestered or levied upon for or in respect of
any debt or claim.

                                                                               [15

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Moneys payable on death of member of Edusave Pupils Fund

 18.—(1) Where a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund dies, the
total amount standing to the member’s credit in his or her Edusave
account must be paid to the Public Trustee for disposal in accordance
with —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

15  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the Intestate Succession Act 1967, if the member was not a
         Muslim at the time of death; or

       (b) section 112 of the Administration of Muslim Law
            Act 1966, if the member was a Muslim at the time of death.

                                                                                                             [2/2012]

 (2) The receipt of the Public Trustee is a good discharge to the
Edusave Scheme Administrator for those portions of the moneys
payable out of the Edusave account on the death of a member of the
Edusave Pupils Fund that are payable to the Public Trustee under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) All moneys paid out of the Edusave account on the death of any
member of the Edusave Pupils Fund are deemed to be impressed with
a trust in favour of the person or persons determined by the Public
Trustee in accordance with subsection (1) to be entitled to the moneys
but are, without affecting the Estate Duty Act 1929, deemed not to
form part of the deceased member’s estate or to be subject to the
member’s debts.

                                                                               [16

                                   PART 3A
            POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION SCHEME
Establishment of Post-Secondary Education Fund
 19.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a fund called the
Post‑Secondary Education Fund is established, into which must be
paid —
       (a) all contributions under section 21;
       (b) all the income of that Fund;
       (c) all moneys transferred to any PSE account under the Child
            Development Co‑Savings Act 2001;
       (d) all sums transferred to any PSE account under —

               (i) section 14(1); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 16

          (ii) section 13(2) or (3) of this Act as in force
               immediately before 10 November 2014; and

          (e) any cash grant made by the Government,

and out of which must be met all payments authorised to be made
under this Act.

                                                                                                [13/2011; 33/2014]

 (2) The PSE Scheme Administrator must administer the PSE Fund
on behalf of the Minister, and all moneys belonging to that Fund may
be —

(a) deposited in a bank or banks approved by the PSE Scheme
     Administrator; and

(b) invested in any securities that trustees may by any written
     law be authorised to invest.

 (3) The PSE Scheme Administrator must maintain for each member
of the PSE Fund in respect of the money standing to the member’s
credit in that Fund an account to be called the PSE account from
which withdrawals may be made under section 22, 23 or 24.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4) The PSE Scheme Administrator has the powers and must
perform the duties given or imposed by this Act or directed by the
Minister, and the PSE Scheme Administrator may by instrument in
writing delegate to any person all or any of those powers and duties,
except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection.

 (5) The Minister may, by warrant under his or her hand, authorise
the transfer to the Consolidated Fund of any moneys in the PSE Fund
which, in the opinion of the Minister and the Minister for Finance, are
not immediately required to meet the liabilities or purposes of the
PSE Fund.

 (6) For the purpose of providing additional income to the PSE
Fund, the Minister for Finance may, from time to time, pay to that
Fund such sum of money as Parliament may provide.

                                                                             [16A

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

17  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

Members of PSE Fund

 20. A person becomes a member of the PSE Fund by virtue of this
section if the person —

    (a) is a citizen of Singapore; and

    (b) satisfies any other prescribed requirements.

                                                             [16B

Contributions and interest to be paid to members of PSE Fund

 21.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and any regulations made under
section 35, any parent of an eligible member of the PSE Fund, or any
person on the parent’s behalf, may, from time to time after a PSE
account has been opened for the member and before the member has
attained 18 years of age, contribute one or more sums to the member’s
PSE account.

 (2) If the aggregate of all contributions by or on behalf of a parent of
an eligible member of the PSE Fund to the member’s PSE account
under subsection (1) exceeds the maximum amount that the Minister
may from time to time prescribe for such contributions, the PSE
Scheme Administrator may refund the whole or any part of the
contributions in excess of that amount.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where any sum has been contributed
by or on behalf of a parent of an eligible member of the PSE Fund to
the member’s PSE account under subsection (1), the Government
must contribute an equivalent sum to the PSE account.

 (4) The aggregate of —

       (a) all contributions made by the Government to the PSE
            account of an eligible member of the PSE Fund under
            subsection (3); and

       (b) all contributions (if any) made by the Government under
            the co-savings arrangement to the member’s bank account
            (if any) opened under regulations made under section 3 of
            the Child Development Co-Savings Act 2001,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 18

must not exceed the maximum amount that the Minister may from
time to time prescribe.

                                                                                                            [13/2011]

 (5) For the purposes of subsections (2) and (4), different maximum
amounts may be prescribed for different classes of eligible members
of the PSE Fund.

 (6) Subject to subsection (2), the PSE Scheme Administrator must
cause to be credited —

(a) to any eligible member of the PSE Fund the contributions
     made to the member’s PSE account under subsections (1)
     and (3); and

(b) to every member of the PSE Fund interest at the rate
     mentioned in subsection (9) at the intervals and on the
     amount standing to the member’s credit in his or her PSE
     account over the periods, which must be paid out of the
     income of that Fund at the time, that the PSE Scheme
     Administrator may determine.

 (7) The PSE Scheme Administrator must, as far as practicable,
credit any contribution made by the Government under subsection (3)
to the PSE account of an eligible member of the PSE Fund within the
prescribed period after the corresponding contribution under
subsection (1) was made by or on behalf of a member’s parent to
the member’s PSE account.

 (8) Where it is not practicable to credit the contribution made by the
Government under subsection (3) to the PSE account of an eligible
member of the PSE Fund within the time limited by subsection (7),
the PSE Scheme Administrator must credit that contribution within
any other period allowed by the Minister.

 (9) Interest is payable on the amount standing to the credit of every
member of the PSE Fund in his or her PSE account at such rate per
annum as the Minister may from time to time determine, and the
Minister may determine different rates of interest for different parts
of the amount standing to the credit of any member of the PSE Fund
in the member’s PSE account.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

19  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

(10) In this section —

    “co-savings arrangement” means the co‑savings arrangement
       mentioned in section 3(1)(a) of the Child Development
       Co‑Savings Act 2001;

    “eligible member of the PSE Fund” means any member of that
       Fund who —

    (a) is eligible for the co-savings arrangement; and

    (b) satisfies any other prescribed requirement.
                                                                  [16C

                                                                                           [13/2011]

                                   PART 3B

                  WITHDRAWAL FROM PSE FUND

Conditions for withdrawal from PSE Fund

 22.—(1) Any money standing to the credit of any member of the
PSE Fund in his or her PSE account may be withdrawn from that
Fund with the authority of the PSE Scheme Administrator in
accordance with this section, section 23 and any regulations made
under section 35.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) Subject to any regulations made under section 35, a parent of a
member of the PSE Fund below 21 years of age, or a member of that
Fund who has attained 21 years of age, is entitled to withdraw at any
time the sum standing to the member’s credit in the member’s PSE
account —

       (a) to pay for all fees and charges incurred or to be incurred in
            respect of any approved course of study or programme
            which is attended or to be attended by the member or any
            sibling of the member at any approved institution; and

       (b) for any other prescribed purpose.

 (3) Subject to any regulations made under section 35, the Minister
may permit the withdrawal of the whole sum standing to the credit of
a member of the PSE Fund in his or her PSE account —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 20

(a) upon an application by the member or, if the member is
     below 21 years of age, a parent of the member; and

(b) if the Minister is satisfied that it is just and equitable to do
     so.

 (4) Upon withdrawal of the whole sum mentioned in subsection (3),
the member’s PSE account is to be closed and the member ceases to
be a member of the PSE Fund.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (5) In subsection (2), “approved”, in relation to a course of study or
programme or an institution, means approved by the Minister for the
purposes of that subsection.

                                                                             [16D

Donation of member’s moneys in PSE Fund

 23.—(1) An individual who is a member of the PSE Fund or, if the
individual is below 21 years of age, any parent of that individual, may
by notice given to the PSE Scheme Administrator donate all or part of
the sum standing to the individual’s credit in his or her PSE account to
a prescribed charity of the individual’s or parent’s choice (as the case
may be), being a charity whose objects are exclusively or primarily
for the advancement of education.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) Upon receiving the notice in subsection (1), the PSE Scheme
Administrator may authorise the payment of the sum, as stated in the
notice, to the prescribed charity.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) In this section, “charity” means a charity within the meaning of
section 2(1) of the Charities Act 1994, whether or not registered
under that Act.

                                                                          [16DA

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Transfer of member’s moneys in PSE Fund

 24.—(1) Subject to any regulations made under section 35, the PSE
Scheme Administrator may, upon an application by a member of the
PSE Fund who has attained 21 years of age, permit the member to
transfer the whole sum standing to the member’s credit in his or her

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

21  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

PSE account to his or her ordinary account (if any) maintained under
section 13 of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953, and upon the
transfer, the member’s PSE account is to be closed and the member
ceases to be a member of the PSE Fund.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (2) Subject to any regulations made under section 35, the PSE
Scheme Administrator may, upon an application by a member of the
PSE Fund who has attained the relevant age, permit the member to
transfer —

    (a) the whole or any part of the sum standing to the member’s
         credit in his or her PSE account to his or her sibling’s PSE
         account, if any; and

    (b) any remainder of that sum to his or her ordinary account (if
         any) maintained under section 13 of the Central Provident
         Fund Act 1953,

and upon the transfer, the member’s PSE account is to be closed and
the member ceases to be a member of the PSE Fund.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) The PSE Scheme Administrator may, upon an application by a
member of the PSE Fund who has attained or is about to attain the
relevant age, permit the member to remain as a member of that Fund,
and to continue to maintain in his or her PSE account the sum
standing to his or her credit in that account, until such time after
attaining the relevant age as the PSE Scheme Administrator may
determine.

 (4) Subject to subsection (3), where any member of the PSE Fund
has attained the relevant age, and no application has been made,
within such period (not exceeding 12 months) after the member has
attained the relevant age as the PSE Scheme Administrator may
specify, for the sum standing to the member’s credit in his or her PSE
account to be withdrawn under section 22(3) or transferred under
subsection (1) or (2), the PSE Scheme Administrator must transfer
the sum standing to the member’s credit in his or her PSE account to
his or her ordinary account (if any) maintained under section 13 of the
Central Provident Fund Act 1953, and upon the transfer, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 22

member’s PSE account is to be closed and the member ceases to be a
member of the PSE Fund.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4A) Every sum transferred under subsection (1), (2) or (4) to a
member’s ordinary account maintained under section 13 of the
Central Provident Fund Act 1953 is taken to be a cash grant paid into
the Fund under section 14(1) of that Act.

                                                                               [Act 39 of 2021 wef 01/01/2022]

 (5) In this section, “relevant age” means the age prescribed for the
purposes of this section.

 (6) An individual who is a member of the PSE Fund and who
resumes being a member of the Edusave Pupils Fund by virtue of
section 8(3), or, if the individual is below 21 years of age, any parent
of the individual, may apply to the PSE Scheme Administrator to
transfer moneys standing to the credit of the individual in his or her
PSE account to his or her Edusave account.

                                                                             [16E

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

Applications for withdrawal or transfer from PSE account

 25.—(1) Upon an application to withdraw any sum of money
standing to the credit of a member of the PSE Fund in the member’s
PSE account by the member’s parent or by the member (as the case
may be) under section 22(2) or (3), the PSE Scheme Administrator
may authorise the withdrawal of such sum as the parent or member is
entitled to withdraw from the member’s PSE account.

 (2) Upon an application to transfer the sum standing to the credit of
a member of the PSE Fund in the member’s PSE account by the
member under section 24(1) or (2), the PSE Scheme Administrator
may authorise the transfer of that sum from the member’s PSE
account.

 (3) Upon an application under section 24(6) to transfer moneys
from the PSE account of an individual who is a member of the PSE
Fund to the individual’s Edusave account, the PSE Scheme
Administrator may authorise the transfer to the Edusave account of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

23  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

an amount not exceeding the amount earlier transferred to the PSE
account under section 14(1) with respect to that individual.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (4) All applications for withdrawal or transfer must be supported by
such evidence as may be prescribed and by any further evidence that
the PSE Scheme Administrator may reasonably require.

                                                                             [16F

Protection of benefits of member of PSE Fund

 26.—(1) Subject to this Act (insofar as it provides for the refund,
withdrawal, transfer or utilisation of any sum contributed to or
standing in a PSE account), any moneys paid into the PSE account of
a member of the PSE Fund belong to the member and are not
assignable or liable to be attached, sequestered or levied upon for or
in respect of any debt or claim.

 (2) No withdrawals or transfers authorised by the PSE Scheme
Administrator from the PSE Fund under section 22, 23 or 24 nor the
rights of any member of that Fund acquired under any of those
sections are assignable or transferable or liable to be attached,
sequestered or levied upon for or in respect of any debt or claim.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) A contribution by a parent of a member of the PSE Fund under
section 21(1) does not constitute a transaction at an undervalue or an
unfair preference under section 361 or 362 of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 or form part of the parent’s
estate, if the parent has been adjudged bankrupt.

                                                                             [16G

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Moneys payable on death of member of PSE Fund

 27.—(1) Where a member of the PSE Fund dies, the total amount
standing to the member’s credit in his or her PSE account must be
paid to the Public Trustee for disposal in accordance with —

       (a) the Intestate Succession Act 1967, if the member was not a
            Muslim at the time of death; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 24

       (b) section 112 of the Administration of Muslim Law
            Act 1966, if the member was a Muslim at the time of death.

                                                                                                             [2/2012]

 (2) Upon payment of the total amount standing to the credit of a
member of the PSE Fund in the member’s PSE account to the Public
Trustee under subsection (1), the PSE account is to be closed and the
member ceases to be a member of the PSE Fund.

                                                                                                           [33/2014]

 (3) The receipt of the Public Trustee is a good discharge to the PSE
Scheme Administrator for those portions of the moneys payable out
of the PSE account on the death of a member of the PSE Fund that are
payable to the Public Trustee under subsection (1).

 (4) All moneys paid out of the PSE account of any member of the
PSE Fund on the member’s death are deemed to be impressed with a
trust in favour of the person or persons determined by the Public
Trustee in accordance with subsection (1) to be entitled to the moneys
but are, without affecting the Estate Duty Act 1929, deemed not to
form part of the deceased member’s estate or to be subject to the
deceased member’s debts.

                                                                             [16H

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Expenses

 28.—(1) All expenses incurred in connection with the
administration of the Endowment Fund and Edusave Pupils Fund,
including the cost of auditing the accounts of those Funds under
section 31(1), must be defrayed out of the income of the Endowment
Fund.

 (2) All expenses incurred in connection with the administration of
the PSE Fund, including the cost of auditing the accounts of that Fund
under section 31(1), must be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [17

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
                Education Endowment and

25              Savings Schemes Act 1992                     2020 Ed.

Financial year

 29. The financial year of the Endowment Fund, the Edusave Pupils
Fund and the PSE Fund begins on 1 April of each year and ends on
31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                               [18

Accounts to be kept

 30.—(1) The Minister must —

       (a) cause to be kept proper accounts and records of all
            transactions and affairs relating to the Endowment Fund,
            the Edusave Pupils Fund and the PSE Fund; and

       (b) do all things necessary to ensure that —

               (i) all payments out of each Fund are correctly made and
                   properly authorised; and

              (ii) adequate control is maintained over the assets and
                   receipts of each Fund.

 (2) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of each
financial year but not later than 30 June of each year, cause to be
prepared and submitted to the auditor of each Fund financial
statements in respect of that year for that Fund.

                                                                               [19

Appointment, powers and duties of auditor

 31.—(1) The accounts of the Endowment Fund, the Edusave Pupils
Fund and the PSE Fund must be audited by —

       (a) the Auditor-General; or

       (b) such other auditor as may be appointed annually by the
            Minister in consultation with the Auditor‑General.

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1)(b) unless the person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967.

 (3) The auditor of each Fund or any person authorised by the
auditor is entitled at all reasonable times to full and free access to all
accounting and other records relating, directly or indirectly, to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 26

financial transactions of that Fund and may make copies of, or
extracts from, any of those accounting and other records.

(4) The auditor of each Fund must in the auditor’s report state —

(a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
     transactions and the state of affairs of that Fund;

(b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
     kept, including records of all assets of that Fund;

          (c) whether receipts, expenditure and investment of moneys
              and the acquisition and disposal of assets on account of that
              Fund during the financial year were in accordance with the
              provisions of this Act; and

(d) any other matter arising from the audit that the auditor
     considers necessary.

 (5) The auditor of each Fund must, as soon as practicable after the
accounts have been submitted for audit, send a report of the audit to
the Minister and must also submit such periodical and special reports
to the Minister as appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the
Minister may require.

 (6) Where the Auditor‑General is not the auditor of the Endowment
Fund, the Edusave Pupils Fund or the PSE Fund, a copy of the audited
financial statements and any report made by the auditor must be
forwarded to the Auditor‑General.

                                                                               [20

Failure to provide information to auditor

 32.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may
require any person to provide any information in that person’s
possession or to which that person has access that the auditor
considers necessary for the purposes of the auditor’s functions under
this Act.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requirement of the auditor under subsection (1) or who
otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance
of the duties or the exercise of the powers of the auditor shall be guilty

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

27  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

                                                                               [21

Presentation of financial statements, auditor’s report and
annual report to Parliament

 33. The Minister must, as soon as practicable but not later than
30 September of each year, cause an annual report in respect of the
administration of the Endowment Fund, the Edusave Pupils Fund and
the PSE Fund during the preceding financial year to be prepared, and
must present a copy of the annual report and of the audited financial
statements and the auditor’s report to Parliament.

                                                                               [22

Offences

 34. Any person who for any purpose connected with this Act —

       (a) knowingly makes any false statement; or

       (b) produces or provides or causes or knowingly allows to be
            produced or provided any document which the person
            knows to be false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                               [23

Regulations

 35.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
expedient for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may —

       (a) provide for the establishment of scholarships and other
            awards out of the income of the Endowment Fund and for
            all matters connected therewith, including the persons
            eligible to apply for each type of scholarship or award, and
            the amount of each type of scholarship or award;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
          Education Endowment and

2020 Ed.  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 28

(b) prescribe the amount which may be withdrawn, and the
     manner in which withdrawals may be made, by members
     of the Edusave Pupils Fund or their parents;

          (c) provide for such information, evidence and documents as
              the Edusave Scheme Administrator may require from
              members of the Edusave Pupils Fund or their parents who
              have applied for or utilised the withdrawals mentioned in
              paragraph (b);

(d) provide for the circumstances in which a refund of any sum
     withdrawn from the Edusave Pupils Fund must be made or
     may be required by the Edusave Scheme Administrator to
     be made, and for the person by whom and the manner in
     which the refund is to be made;

          (e) provide for the disposal of amounts in the Edusave Pupils
              Fund which are unclaimed or unpaid, or which otherwise
              remain in that Fund;

          (f) prescribe the procedure of the Council;

(g) prescribe the amount which may be withdrawn, and the
     manner in which withdrawals may be made, by members
     of the PSE Fund or their parents;

(h) provide for such information, evidence and documents as
     the PSE Scheme Administrator may require from members
     of the PSE Fund or their parents who have applied for or
     utilised the withdrawals mentioned in paragraph (g);

          (i) provide for the circumstances in which a refund of any sum
              withdrawn from the PSE Fund must be made or may be
              required by the PSE Scheme Administrator to be made,
              and for the person by whom and the manner in which the
              refund is to be made;

          (j) provide for the disposal of amounts in the PSE Fund which
              are unclaimed or unpaid, or which otherwise remain in that
              Fund; and

          (k) prescribe anything which may be prescribed.

                                                                       [24

                                                                   [33/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
    Education Endowment and

29  Savings Schemes Act 1992                                 2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 11(4)

                                  ADVISORY COUNCIL

 1.—(1) Subject to this paragraph, every member of the Council holds and
vacates his or her office in accordance with the terms of his or her appointment and
is, on ceasing to be a member, eligible for re‑appointment.

 (2) Any member of the Council may resign from office at any time by written
notice given to the Minister.

 (3) The Minister may remove a member of the Council from office if the
Minister is satisfied that the member —

        (a) is guilty of neglect of duty or misconduct;

    (b) has become a bankrupt or made an arrangement with his or her
         creditors;

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or

        (d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member.

 2. The validity of any proceedings of the Council is not affected by any vacancy
among the members or by any defect in the appointment of any member.

 3. The quorum for a meeting of the Council is one-half of the number of its
members.

 4. The arrangements relating to meetings of the Council are as determined by the
Council.

 5. The chairperson presides at all meetings of the Council at which he or she is
present and in the chairperson’s absence the members present must elect one of
their number to act as chairperson of that meeting.

 6. All questions arising at any meeting of the Council must be decided by a
majority of votes of the members present and, in the case of an equality of votes,
the chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote.

 7. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any regulations made under this Act,
the Council may regulate its own procedure in any manner that it thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
            LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      EDUCATION ENDOWMENT AND
       SAVINGS SCHEMES ACT 1992

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 33 of 1992 — Education Endowment Scheme Act 1992

Bill           : 34/1992

First Reading  : 31 July 1992

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 1992

Commencement   : 1 January 1993

2. 1993 Revised Edition — Education Endowment Scheme Act
                                    (Chapter 87A)

Commencement   : 15 March 1993

3. Act 13 of 2001 — Children Development Co-Savings Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 22 of the above Act)

Bill           : 13/2001

First Reading  : 22 February 2001

Second and Third Readings : 16 March 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2001 (section 22)

4. Act 32 of 2005 — Education Endowment Scheme (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill           : 23/2005

First Reading  : 15 August 2005

Second and Third Readings : 19 September 2005

Commencement   : 17 August 2005

5. Act 6 of 2007 — Education Endowment Scheme (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill           : 18/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2007

Commencement   : 22 May 2007

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
                      ii

6. Act 52 of 2007 — Education Endowment Scheme (Amendment No. 2)
                           Act 2007

Bill                  : 40/2007

First Reading         : 17 September 2007

Second and Third Readings : 23 October 2007

Commencement          : 1 January 2008

Note: The Education Endowment Scheme Act was renamed as the
        Education Endowment and Savings Schemes Act by this Act.

7. 2009 Revised Edition — Education Endowment and Savings Schemes
                                    Act (Chapter 87A)

Operation             : 31 July 2009

8. Act 13 of 2011 — Children Development Co-Savings (Amendment)
                           Act 2011

   (Amendments made by section 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 8/2011

First Reading         : 28 February 2011

Second and Third Readings : 10 March 2011

Commencement          : 1 May 2011 (section 7)

9. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
   (Amendments made by section 22 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2011

First Reading         : 21 November 2011

Second Reading        : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments  : 18 January 2012

Third Reading         : 18 January 2012

Commencement          : 1 March 2012 (section 22)

10. Act 33 of 2014 — Education Endowment and Savings Schemes
                             (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill                  : 30/2014

First Reading         : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 2014

Commencement          : 10 November 2014

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
               iii

11. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 471 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 471)

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Education Endowment and
                                     Savings Schemes Act 1992

Operation      : 31 December 2021

13. Act 39 of 2021 — Central Provident Fund (Amendment) Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 11 of the above Act)

Bill           : 36/2021

First Reading  : 4 October 2021

Second and Third Readings : 2 November 2021

Commencement   : 1 January 2022

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
      COMPARATIVE TABLE

EDUCATION ENDOWMENT AND
 SAVINGS SCHEMES ACT 1992

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2009 Ed.
—                          2—(3) [Deleted by Act 33 of 2014]
9—(4)                      9—(3A)

   (5)                        (3B)
   (6)                        (4)
   (7)                        (5)
—                             (6) [Deleted by Act 33 of 2014]
10                         9A
11                         10
12                         11
13                         12
14                         13
15                         13A
16                         14
17                         15
18                         16
19                         16A
20                         16B
21                         16C
22                         16D
   (3) and (4)                (3)
   (5)                        (4)
23                         16DA
24                         16E

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
                 2020 Ed.  ii         2009 Ed.
25
                            16F
   (3)                          (2A)
   (4)                          (3)
26
27                          16G
   (2)                      16H
   (3)
   (4)                          (1A)
28                              (2)
29                              (3)
[Omitted as spent]          17
30                          18—(1)
31                              (2)
32                          19
33                          20
34                          21
35                          22
                            23
                            24

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/1/2022
