THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                         PUBLIC SECTOR

                  (GOVERNANCE) ACT 2018

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                                                                      2020 Ed.

               Public Sector
         (Governance) Act 2018

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                               PART 1
                          PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.
     3.

                                        PART 2
                                    DIRECTIONS

      Division 1 — Directions from relevant or responsible Ministers
 4. Directions for whole-of-government approach, etc.
 5. Directions by responsible Minister

                    Division 2 — Directions on data sharing
 6. Authority to share
 7. Unauthorised disclosure and improper use of information
 8. Unauthorised re-identification of anonymised information

                                Division 3 — General
 9. Form of directions, etc.
10. Compliance with directions, etc.
11. Limit to effect of directions

                                        PART 3
                             PERSONNEL MATTERS
12. Application of this Part
13. Interpretation of this Part
                           Division 1 — Chief executives
14. Role of chief executive

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2

Section   Appointment of chief executive
          Removal of chief executive
   15.    Disciplinary control over chief executive
   16.    Promotion of chief executive
   17.    Saving for other written law
   18.
   19.

          Division 2 — Public servants

20. Deemed public servants
21. Deemed public officers

                                        PART 4

                                   GOVERNANCE

22. Application of this Part

                Division 1 — Disclosure of conflict of interests

23. Interpretation of “relevant matter”, “associate”, etc.
24. Obligation to disclose interest
25. To whom and what to disclose
26. Consequences of being interested in relevant matter
27. Consequences of failure to disclose interest
28. Application to committees of public bodies

                Division 2 — Decision-making by public bodies

29. Procedure generally
30. Method of holding meetings
31. Decision-making without meeting
32. Delegation of functions

                                        PART 5

                        FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION

33. Application of this Part
34. Annual estimates
35. Supplementary estimates
36. Financial accounts and records
37. Auditor of public body
38. Powers of auditor
39. Auditor’s report
40. Audited annual financial statements
41. Annual and other reports of public body

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
         Public Sector

3        (Governance) Act 2018                       2020 Ed.

         PART 6

         GENERAL PROVISIONS

Section  Amendment of Schedules
         Regulations
   42.   Presentation to Parliament
   43.
   44.

                                           PART 7

                                  FINAL PROVISIONS

   45. Saving and transitional provisions
            First Schedule — Group 1 public bodies
            Second Schedule — Group 2 public bodies
            Third Schedule — Group 3 public bodies

An Act to provide for a consistent governance framework across
  public bodies in Singapore and to support a whole‑of‑government
  approach to the delivery of services in the Singapore public sector.

                                                                 [1 April 2018]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “chairperson”, in relation to a public body, means the individual
         who is appointed under the constitutional Act of the public
         body as the chairperson of the public body, and includes any
         individual appointed under that Act to act in that capacity;
      “chief executive”, in relation to a public body, means the
         individual (however designated) who is appointed as the
         chief executive officer of the public body, and includes any
         individual acting in that capacity temporarily;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    4

“comply”, in relation to a direction under Part 2, means to give
   effect to the direction or to have regard to the direction, as the
   context of the direction requires;

“constitutional Act”, in relation to a public body, means the Act
   by or under which the public body is established;

“control”, in relation to information, has the meaning given by
   subsection (3);

“data sharing direction” means a direction given under section 4
   on sharing of information or re‑identification of anonymised
   information under the control of a Singapore public sector
   agency;

“financial year”, for a public body, means a period defined by
   the constitutional Act of the public body to be the financial
   year of the public body;

“function” means a function under written law and includes a
   power or duty under written law;

“governing body”, for a public body, means the public body
   unless the constitutional Act of the public body specifies
   otherwise;

“Group 1 public body” means a public body specified in the
   First Schedule;

“Group 1A public body” means a public body specified in Part 1
   of the First Schedule;

“Group 1B public body” means a public body specified in Part 2
   of the First Schedule;

“Group 1C public body” means a public body specified in Part 3
   of the First Schedule;

“Group 2 public body” means a public body specified in the
   Second Schedule, being a public body the main function of
   which is to regulate the practice and standards of a
   profession;

“Group 2A public body” means a public body specified in Part 1
   of the Second Schedule;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                   Public Sector

5  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

   “Group 2B public body” means a public body specified in Part 2
      of the Second Schedule;

   “Group 3 public body” means a public body specified in the
      Third Schedule, being a public body the main function of
      which is to represent particular community interests or the
      volunteer movement;

   “Group 3A public body” means a public body specified in Part 1
      of the Third Schedule;

   “Group 3B public body” means a public body specified in Part 2
      of the Third Schedule;

   “information” includes —

   (a) any facts, statistics, instructions, concepts or other
        data in a form that is capable of being communicated,
        analysed or processed (whether by an individual or a
        computer or other automated methods); and

   (b) data sets;

   “member”, in relation to a public body, means —

   (a) an individual who is appointed under the
        constitutional Act of the public body as a member
        of the public body; or

   (b) an individual who is appointed under the
        constitutional Act of the public body as a member
        of the governing body of the public body, where there
        is a governing body,

   and includes an individual who is appointed under the
   constitutional Act of the public body to act in that capacity
   temporarily;

   “public body” means a body corporate established by a public
      Act for the purposes of a public function but excludes a Town
      Council established under section 4 of the Town Councils
      Act 1988;

   “public service” means —

   (a) the Singapore Armed Forces;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    6

          (b) the Singapore Civil Defence Force;

          (c) the Singapore Civil Service;

          (ca) the Singapore Judicial Service;

                                                                       [Act 33 of 2021 wef 14/01/2022]

           (d) the Singapore Legal Service; and

          (e) the Singapore Police Force;

“Public Service Commission” means the Public Service
   Commission established under Article 105 of the
   Constitution;

“responsible Minister”, in relation to a public body, means the
   Minister charged with the responsibility for the public body;

“share”, in relation to information under the control of a
   Singapore public sector agency, means to provide (or be
   provided with) the information;

“Singapore public sector” means the sector comprising —

          (a) the public service; and

          (b) all Group 1, Group 2 and Group 3 public bodies;

“Singapore public sector agency” means any of the following:

          (a) a Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3 public body;

          (b) a ministry or department of the Government;

          (c) an Organ of State;

          (d) a public officer or a person exercising a public
               official function, who is declared by the Minister by
               order in the Gazette to be a Singapore public sector
               agency for the purposes of this Act;

“whole-of-government” means the whole of the Singapore
   public sector.

 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, an individual
is an officer of a Singapore public sector agency for the time he or she
is —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
   Public Sector

7  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

   (a) a public officer holding a post in a ministry or department
        of the Government or an Organ of State which is that
        Singapore public sector agency (including a public officer
        on leave without pay);

   (b) an employee of a Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3 public body
        which is that Singapore public sector agency (including an
        employee on leave without pay); or

   (c) under a secondment arrangement making available
       temporarily to that Singapore public sector agency the
       service of the individual.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a Singapore public sector agency is
taken to have control of information if —

   (a) the Singapore public sector agency has possession or
        custody of the information; or

   (b) the Singapore public sector agency has the information in
        the possession or custody of some other person.

Purposes of Act

 3. The purposes of this Act are —

       (a) to establish a consistent system of governance and
            accountability across public bodies in Singapore that
            meets high standards of accountability;

       (b) to clarify the accountability relationship between public
            bodies, their members, their responsible Ministers and the
            Government; and

       (c) to require and support a whole-of-government approach to
            the delivery of services in the Singapore public sector.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    8

          PART 2

          DIRECTIONS

Division 1 — Directions from relevant or responsible Ministers

Directions for whole-of-government approach, etc.

 4.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Minister may, on the
recommendation of the relevant Minister (if any), give or jointly
give a direction, as the case may be —

(a) to all Singapore public sector agencies; or

(b) to a Singapore public sector agency or a class of Singapore
     public sector agencies specified in the direction,

requiring the Singapore public sector agency or agencies concerned
to comply with a policy of the Government (as amended from time to
time, and with or without modifications) relating to all or any
pertinent subject matter.

 (2) A direction under subsection (1) may be made only for all or any
of the following purposes:

(a) to uphold and promote the values of the Singapore public
     sector;

(b) to secure economies or efficiencies for the Singapore
     public sector;

          (c) to improve (directly or indirectly) the efficiency or
              effectiveness of policies, programme management or
              service planning and delivery by Singapore public sector
              agencies (whether by carrying out data analytics work or
              otherwise);

(d) to ensure business continuity;

          (e) to ensure accountable and prudent stewardship of
              Singapore public sector finances and resources;

          (f) to manage risks to the financial position of the
              Government;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
   Public Sector

9  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

   (g) to support a whole-of-government approach in the
        discharge of the Singapore public sector agencies’
        functions.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), “pertinent subject matter”
means the following:

   (a) employment, management and discipline of employees;

   (b) management of official documents;

   (c) financial and resource management and accountability;

   (d) use or development of information technology;

   (e) data governance (including personal data protection) and
       sharing of information under the control of a Singapore
       public sector agency with another Singapore public sector
       agency.

 (4) The “relevant Minister” for a pertinent subject matter is as
follows:

   (a) for the matter in subsection (3)(a), the Minister charged
        with the responsibility for public sector personnel policy;

   (b) for the matter in subsection (3)(b), the Minister charged
        with the responsibility for Government records and
        archives;

   (c) for the matter in subsection (3)(c), the Minister charged
       with the responsibility for Government finance;

   (d) for the matter in subsection (3)(d), the Minister charged
        with the responsibility for public sector
        info‑communications technology and related engineering;

   (e) for the matter in subsection (3)(e), the Minister charged
       with the responsibility for public sector data governance.

Directions by responsible Minister

 5.—(1) The responsible Minister for a Group 1 public body may
give to the public body directions as to the performance by the public
body of its functions.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    10

 (2) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect any requirement in
the constitutional Act of a public body or other Act administered by a
public body requiring the responsible Minister to consult any person
specified in that Act before exercising the power under subsection (1)
in relation to the public body.

                Division 2 — Directions on data sharing

Authority to share

 6.—(1) Where a data sharing direction is given to a Singapore
public sector agency —

       (a) the Singapore public sector agency and every officer of
            that agency; and

       (b) where the Singapore public sector agency is a public body,
            the members of the public body,

are authorised to share the information under the control of the
Singapore public sector agency with another Singapore public sector
agency to the extent permitted by the data sharing direction despite
any obligation as to confidentiality under the common law.

 (2) However, subsection (1) does not override any obligation as to
confidentiality because of legal privilege or contract.

 (3) To avoid doubt, this Act is not intended to prevent or discourage
the sharing of information by Singapore public sector agencies as
permitted or required by or under any Act or other law (apart from
this Act).

Unauthorised disclosure and improper use of information

 7.—(1) If —

       (a) an individual discloses, or the individual’s conduct causes
            disclosure of, information under the control of a Singapore
            public sector agency to another person (whether or not a
            Singapore public sector agency);

       (b) the disclosure is not authorised by any data sharing
            direction given to the Singapore public sector agency;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

11  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    (c) the individual is a relevant public official of the Singapore
        public sector agency at the time of the disclosure; and

    (d) the individual does so —

    (i) knowing that the disclosure is not in accordance with
        that direction; or

    (ii) reckless as to whether the disclosure is or is not in
         accordance with that direction,

the individual shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the defendant to prove, on a balance of probabilities, any
of the following:

    (a) the information under the control of the Singapore public
         sector agency was, at the time of its disclosure by the
         defendant, generally available information;

    (b) the defendant disclosed or caused the disclosure of
         information under the control of a Singapore public
         sector agency —

    (i) as permitted or required by or under an Act or other
        law (apart from this Act);

    (ii) as authorised or required by an order of court; or

            (iii) in any other circumstances, or for any other purpose,
                  prescribed.

                                                                                                         [40/2020]

(3) If —

    (a) an individual makes use of information under the control of
         a Singapore public sector agency (A);

    (b) the use is not authorised by any data sharing direction
         given to A;

    (c) the individual is a relevant public official of A or another
        Singapore public sector agency at the time of the use;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    12

(d) the individual does so —

          (i) knowing that the use is not in accordance with such a
              data sharing direction; or

          (ii) reckless as to whether the use is or is not in
               accordance with such a data sharing direction; and

          (e) the individual as a result of that use —

          (i) obtains a gain for the individual or another person;

          (ii) causes harm to another individual; or

          (iii) causes a loss to another person,

the individual shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (4) If —

(a) an individual makes use of information (other than
     personal data) under the control of a Singapore public
     sector agency (A);

(b) the use is not authorised by A;

          (c) the individual is —

          (i) a contractor supplying goods or services to A or to
              another Singapore public sector agency; or

          (ii) an employee of a person who is a contractor
               supplying goods or services to A or to another
               Singapore public sector agency;

(d) the individual does so —

          (i) knowing that the use is not authorised by A; or

          (ii) reckless as to whether the use is or is not authorised
               by A; and

          (e) the individual, as a result of that use —

          (i) obtains a gain for the individual or another person;

          (ii) causes harm to another individual; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                    Public Sector

13                  (Governance) Act 2018                    2020 Ed.

    (iii) causes a loss to another person,

the individual shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (3) or (4), it is a
defence for the defendant to prove, on a balance of probabilities, any
of the following:

    (a) that the information under the control of A that was used
         was, at the time of its use, generally available information;

    (b) the defendant used the information under the control
         of A —

    (i) as permitted or required by or under an Act or other
        law (apart from this Act);

    (ii) as authorised or required by an order of court; or

             (iii) in any other circumstances, or for any other purpose,
                   prescribed.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (6) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) or (5) does not affect any
obligation or limitation imposed on, or prohibition of, the disclosure
or use of information under the control of a Singapore public sector
agency by or under any other written law or other law.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (7) In this section —

    “disclose”, in relation to information, includes provide access to
       information;

    “gain” means —

    (a) a gain in property or a supply of services (whether
         temporary or permanent); or

    (b) an opportunity to earn remuneration or greater
         remuneration or to gain a financial advantage
         otherwise than by way of remuneration;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                Public Sector

2020 Ed.        (Governance) Act 2018                              14

“generally available information” means information that
   consists of readily observable matter, including information
   that consists of deductions, conclusions or inferences made or
   drawn from readily observable matter;

“harm”, in relation to an individual, means —

          (a) any physical harm; or

          (b) harassment, alarm or distress caused to the
               individual;

“loss” means —

          (a) a loss in property or a supply of services, whether
               temporary or permanent; or

          (b) a loss of an opportunity to earn remuneration or
               greater remuneration or to gain a financial advantage
               otherwise than by way of remuneration,

          but excludes, in relation to an individual, the loss of personal
          data about the individual;

“personal data” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Personal Data Protection Act 2012;

“relevant public official”, for a Singapore public sector agency,
   means —

          (a) an officer of the Singapore public sector agency;

          (b) a member of a Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3 public
               body which is that Singapore public sector agency, or
               of the governing body of such a public body; or

          (c) the chief executive of a Group 1, Group 2 or Group 3
              public body which is that Singapore public sector
              agency.

                                                                                                 [40/2020]

Unauthorised re-identification of anonymised information

 8.—(1) If —

       (a) an individual takes any action to re-identify or cause
            re‑identification of the person to whom anonymised

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                       Public Sector

15  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    information under the control of a Singapore public sector
    agency relates;

    (b) the re-identification is not authorised by any data sharing
         direction given to the Singapore public sector agency;

    (c) the individual is a relevant public official of the Singapore
        public sector agency at the time of taking that action; and

    (d) the individual does so —

    (i) knowing that the re‑identification is not authorised
        by that data sharing direction; or

    (ii) reckless as to whether the re‑identification is or is not
         authorised by that data sharing direction,

the individual shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that —

    (a) the information on the identity is publicly available;

    (b) the action to re-identify or cause re-identification is —

    (i) permitted or required by or under an Act or other law
        (apart from this Act);

    (ii) authorised or required by an order of court; or

    (iii) in any other circumstances, or for any other purpose,
          prescribed; or

    (c) the accused —

    (i) reasonably believed that the re‑identification was for
        a specified purpose; and

    (ii) notified either of the following agencies of the
         re‑identification as soon as was practicable:

    (A) the Singapore public sector agency;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    16

                     (B) the Government Technology Agency.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect any obligation or
limitation imposed on, or prohibition of, the re‑identification of
anonymised information under the control of a Singapore public
sector agency by or under any other written law or other law.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (4) In this section —

“anonymised information” means any information which is in
   anonymised or de‑identified form;

“Government Technology Agency” means the Government
   Technology Agency established by section 3 of the
   Government Technology Agency Act 2016;

“personal data” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Personal Data Protection Act 2012;

“relevant public official” has the meaning given by section 7(7);

“specified purpose” means any purpose specified in the
   Eleventh Schedule to the Personal Data Protection Act 2012.

                                                                   [40/2020]

                            Division 3 — General

Form of directions, etc.

 9.—(1) A direction under section 4 or 5 to a Singapore public sector
agency or a class of Singapore public sector agencies specified in the
direction may —

       (a) be in the form of a circular or an instruction or order
            addressed to —

               (i) the Singapore public sector agency or every
                   Singapore public sector agency in that class, as the
                   case may be; and

              (ii) the members of a public body which is the Singapore
                   public sector agency in sub‑paragraph (i) and its
                   chief executive; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

17  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) be amended or replaced in the same way as it may be given.

(2) A direction under section 4 or 5 does not have legislative effect.

Compliance with directions, etc.

 10.—(1) Every Singapore public sector agency, or every Singapore
public sector agency within the class of Singapore public sector
agencies, to which a direction under section 4 or 5 is given must, in
performing its functions, comply with the direction starting from the
date specified in the direction.

 (2) The functions of a public body under written law are to be
regarded as including compliance with a direction given to it under
section 4 or 5.

Limit to effect of directions

 11.—(1) A direction under section 4 or 5 must not be inconsistent
with this Act or any other written law.

 (2) A direction under section 4 or 5 is not binding on a Singapore
public sector agency to the extent (if any) to which it would impede or
affect the performance of —

       (a) a statutorily independent function of the Singapore public
            sector agency; or

       (b) a quasi-judicial function of the Singapore public sector
            agency or any of its officers in relation to a particular
            matter.

 (3) This Part does not authorise any Minister to direct a Singapore
public sector agency, or any member or officer of a public body, or
any public officer, requiring —

       (a) the performance or non‑performance of a particular act or
            the bringing about of a particular result, in respect of a
            particular person or persons; or

       (b) the making of an employment decision relating to a
            particular individual.

 (4) However, subsection (3) does not prevent a Minister from
giving a direction under the Government Procurement Act 1997.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                       18

 (5) In this section, “employment decision” means an administrative
decision relating to the employment of an individual, including —

(a) the appointment, promotion, transfer, remuneration or
     benefits of employment;

(b) the termination of an individual’s employment; and

          (c) the taking of disciplinary action against an employee.

                                    PART 3

                         PERSONNEL MATTERS

Application of this Part

 12. This Part applies to and in relation to every Group 1, every
Group 2 and every Group 3 public body to the extent provided in this
Part.

Interpretation of this Part

 13. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appoint” includes appointing a public officer under a
         secondment arrangement making available temporarily to a
         public body the service of the public officer, but excludes to
         promote;

      “disciplinary penalty”, for a chief executive, means dismissal
         from the office of chief executive, reduction in grade,
         financial penalty, stoppage of increment or withdrawal of
         any employment benefit because of misconduct;

      “public body” includes the governing body of a public body
         where the constitutional Act of the public body provides for
         such a governing body.

                       Division 1 — Chief executives

Role of chief executive

 14.—(1) The chief executive of a public body is responsible to the
public body —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

19  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) for the proper administration and management of the
         functions and affairs of the public body in accordance with
         the policy laid down by the public body and the directions
         given to the public body under this Act; and

    (b) for ensuring delivery of services, and collaboration to
         achieve outcomes with other Singapore public sector
         agencies for the attainment of whole‑of‑government
         objectives that are communicated to the public body.

 (2) The chief executive of a public body may be known by such
designation as the constitutional Act of the public body prescribes or,
subject to that Act, as that public body determines.

Appointment of chief executive

 15.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the chief executive of a Group 1,
Group 2A or Group 3 public body must be appointed by the public
body, and no other.

 (2) An individual must not be appointed as the chief executive of a
Group 1, Group 2A or Group 3 public body except —

       (a) with the prior approval of the responsible Minister for the
            public body, in the case of a Group 1, Group 2A or Group 3
            public body; and

       (b) with the prior concurrence of the Public Service
            Commission, in the case of a Group 1 public body.

 (3) Where an individual has been appointed as the chief executive
of a public body in contravention of subsection (2), the responsible
Minister for the public body may issue a direction to the public body
to remove the individual as its chief executive; and the public body
must comply with that direction.

Removal of chief executive

 16.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the chief executive of a Group 1,
Group 2A or Group 3 public body must not be removed from that
office except —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    20

(a) with the prior approval of the responsible Minister for the
     public body, in the case of a Group 1, Group 2A or Group 3
     public body; and

(b) with the prior concurrence of the Public Service
     Commission, in the case of a Group 1 public body.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply where —

(a) a direction is given by a responsible Minister under
     section 15(3); or

(b) the Public Service Commission concurs under section 17
     with a dismissal of a chief executive of a Group 1 public
     body.

 (3) To avoid doubt, this section does not prevent a resignation of an
individual as a chief executive of a public body, or the acceptance by
a public body of such a resignation.

Disciplinary control over chief executive

 17.—(1) A disciplinary penalty must not be imposed by any
Group 1 public body on its chief executive without the prior
concurrence of the Public Service Commission with the decision of
the public body to impose the disciplinary penalty.

 (2) This section does not apply in relation to a chief executive of a
public body who is a public officer under a secondment arrangement
making available temporarily to the public body the service of the
public officer.

Promotion of chief executive

 18.—(1) A Group 1 public body must not promote its chief
executive to a higher grade in that office without the prior
concurrence of the Public Service Commission with the promotion.

 (2) Where an individual has been promoted by a public body in
contravention of subsection (1), the responsible Minister for the
public body may give a direction to the public body to take such steps
as are necessary to rectify the contravention; and the public body
must comply with that direction despite any agreement or other law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

21  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) This section does not apply in relation to a chief executive of a
public body who is a public officer under a secondment arrangement
making available temporarily to the public body the service of the
public officer.

Saving for other written law

 19. To avoid doubt, this Division does not affect any requirement in
the Constitution for the concurrence of the President to an
appointment or a removal of the chief executive of a public body
in the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution.

                       Division 2 — Public servants

Deemed public servants
 20.—(1) The following individuals of a Group 1, Group 2 or

Group 3 public body are each deemed to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871 in relation to his or her carrying out
any function of the public body:

       (a) the chairperson of the public body;

       (b) a member of the public body;
       (c) the chief executive of the public body;

       (d) an officer of the public body.
 (2) Every member of a committee which —

       (a) is formed by a Group 1A, Group 1B, Group 2 or Group 3
            public body; and

       (b) is delegated to carry out any function of the public body
            under its constitutional Act or any other written law,

is taken to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871
in relation to his or her carrying out the function of the public body.

Deemed public officers

 21.—(1) Every individual mentioned in section 20, and every
member of a committee which is formed by a Group 1C public body

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    22

to carry out any of its functions, is taken to be a public officer for the
purposes of the Financial Procedure Act 1966 in relation to —

(a) his or her administration, assessment, collection or
     enforcement of payment of any fee, tax, charge, financial
     penalty or other sum of money which is imposed or
     collected under the constitutional Act of the public body or
     any other written law administered by the public body
     and —

          (i) is collected by the public body as an agent of the
              Government under the constitutional Act or that
              other written law; or

          (ii) is payable or required by the constitutional Act or
               other written law to be paid into the Consolidated
               Fund or other Government Fund;

(b) his or her disbursing, on behalf of the Government, under
     the constitutional Act of the public body or any other
     written law administered by the public body, any financial
     assistance or other benefits using moneys withdrawn from
     the Consolidated Fund or other Government Fund; or

          (c) his or her administration and management of any contract
              entered into or managed by the public body on behalf of the
              Government,

and section 20 of the Financial Procedure Act 1966 applies to each of
these individuals even though they are not or were not in the
employment of the Government.

 (2) Every member and officer of a Group 1 public body with a
function of acting as an agent of the Government is, in relation to his
or her entering into contracts on behalf of the Government in the
performance of that function, taken to be a public officer for the
purposes of the Government Contracts Act 1966.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                          Public Sector

23  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

                          PART 4

                          GOVERNANCE

Application of this Part

 22. This Part applies to and in relation to every Group 1, every
Group 2 and every Group 3 public body.

            Division 1 — Disclosure of conflict of interests

Interpretation of “relevant matter”, “associate”, etc.

 23.—(1) In this Division, “relevant matter”, for a public body,
means —

       (a) the public body’s performance of its functions or exercise
            of its powers under written law; or

       (b) an arrangement or agreement, or a contract, made or
            entered into, or proposed to be made or entered into, by the
            public body.

 (2) A member of a public body is interested in a relevant matter
relating to the public body if the member, or an associate of the
member —

       (a) may derive a direct or indirect financial benefit from the
            relevant matter;

       (b) may have a direct or indirect financial interest in a person
            to whom the relevant matter relates; or

       (c) is otherwise directly or indirectly interested in the matter.

 (3) However, a member of a public body is not interested, directly
or indirectly, in a relevant matter relating to the public body —

       (a) only because of an interest in a question about the level of
            remuneration, allowances or expenses to be set for
            members of the public body;

       (b) only because of an interest that the member, or an associate
            of the member, shares in common with the general public
            or a substantial section of the public;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    24

          (c) only because the member, or an associate of the member,
              has an interest in payment or reimbursement of
              membership fees for, or expenses related to membership
              in, a body with predominantly charitable objects;

(d) only because he or she has past or current involvement in
     the relevant sector, industry or practice;

          (e) only because the member, or an associate of the member, is
              a customer of any service provided or goods supplied by
              the public body to the public generally or a section of the
              public in the performance of its functions or exercise of its
              powers under written law;

          (f) only because the member is a director or chief executive
              officer of a wholly‑owned subsidiary corporation of the
              public body and the relevant matter is with or for the
              benefit of or done on behalf of that wholly‑owned
              subsidiary corporation;

(g) where the member is appointed to represent —

          (i) the Government or a holder of a public office; or

          (ii) a community or special interest group in accordance
               with the constitutional Act of the public body,

(g) only because the relevant matter is with or for the benefit of
     or done on behalf of the Government or that public office
     or that community or group, as the case may be; or

(h) if his or her interest is so remote or insignificant that it
     cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to influence him or
     her in carrying out his or her responsibilities under this Act
     or another written law administered by the public body in
     respect of that relevant matter.

(4) In this Division, a person is an associate of another if —

(a) they are spouses or siblings or a parent and child or they are
     in a similar close family relationship;

(b) they are in partnership;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                          Public Sector

25  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    (c) one is a company and the other is a director or manager of
        the company;

    (d) one is a private company within the meaning of the
         Companies Act 1967 and the other is a shareholder in the
         company; or

    (e) a chain of relationships can be traced between them under
        one or more of the above paragraphs.

 (5) In this section, a person is a wholly‑owned subsidiary
corporation of a public body if none of the members of the
corporation is a person other than —

    (a) the public body;

    (b) a nominee of the public body;

    (c) a subsidiary of the public body being a subsidiary none of
        the members of which is a person other than that public
        body or a nominee of that public body; or

    (d) a nominee of a subsidiary mentioned in paragraph (c),

and “subsidiary” has the meaning given by the Companies Act 1967.

 (6) In this Division, unless the context otherwise requires, “public
body” includes the governing body of a public body where the
constitutional Act of the public body provides for such a governing
body.

Obligation to disclose interest

 24.—(1) A member of a public body who is interested in a relevant
matter relating to the public body must disclose details of the interest
in accordance with section 25 as soon as practicable after the member
becomes aware that he or she is interested.

 (2) A general notice of an interest —

       (a) in a relevant matter relating to the public body; or

       (b) in a relevant matter that may in future relate to the public
            body,

that is disclosed in accordance with section 25 is a standing disclosure
of that interest for the purposes of this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    26

 (3) However, a standing disclosure ceases to have effect if the
nature of the interest materially alters or the extent of the interest
materially increases.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section is in addition to, and not in
derogation of, the operation of any rule of law restricting a member of
a public body from having any interest in arrangements, agreements
or contracts of the public body or from holding offices or possessing
interests in conflict with his or her duties as such a member.

To whom and what to disclose

 25.—(1) A member of a public body who is interested in a relevant
matter relating to the public body must disclose details of the
interest —

       (a) in the case of the chairperson —

               (i) to the chief executive and all other members of the
                   public body; and

              (ii) to the responsible Minister for the public body; or

       (b) in the case of any other member —

               (i) to the chairperson of the public body;

              (ii) if there is no chairperson or the chairperson is
                   interested, to a deputy chairperson of the public
                   body; or

             (iii) if there is neither a chairperson nor deputy
                   chairperson or if the chairperson and every deputy
                   chairperson are interested, to the responsible
                   Minister for the public body.

 (2) The details that must be disclosed under this section are —

       (a) the nature of the interest and the monetary value of the
            interest (if the monetary value can be quantified); or

       (b) the nature and extent of the interest (if the monetary value
            cannot be quantified).

 (3) The chief executive of a public body must ensure that every
disclosure under this section —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

27  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) is recorded in a register of interests kept by the public
         body; and

    (b) is brought to the attention of the member presiding at a
         meeting of the public body that relates to the relevant
         matter.

Consequences of being interested in relevant matter

 26. A member of a public body who is interested in a relevant
matter relating to the public body —

       (a) must not vote or take part in any discussion or decision of
            the public body or any committee relating to the matter, or
            otherwise participate in any activity of the public body that
            relates to the matter;

       (b) must withdraw from any meeting of the public body or
            committee during the consideration or discussion relating
            to the matter if the member presiding at the meeting so
            requests;

       (c) must not sign any document relating to the entry into a
            transaction or the initiation of the matter; and

       (d) must be disregarded for the purpose of forming a quorum
            for that part of a meeting of the public body or a committee
            during which a discussion or decision relating to the matter
            occurs or is made.

Consequences of failure to disclose interest

 27.—(1) A public body must notify its responsible Minister of a
failure to comply with section 25 or 26, and of the matters affected, as
soon as practicable after becoming aware of the failure.

 (2) However, the exercise of any power or performance of any
function of a public body by the public body is not affected merely
because at the relevant time —

       (a) a member failed to disclose his or her interest in a relevant
            matter (within the meaning of this Division); or

       (b) the public body failed to give notice under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    28

Application to committees of public bodies

 28.—(1) This section applies where a public body is permitted by
its constitutional Act to appoint committees from among its members
or other individuals —

(a) to advise the public body on any matters relating to the
     public body’s functions that are referred to the committee
     by the public body; or

(b) to perform or exercise any of the public body’s functions
     that are delegated to the committee.

 (2) An individual may not be appointed as a member of such a
committee of a public body unless, before appointment, he or she
discloses to the public body the details of any interest the individual
has at that time, or is likely to have, in matters relating to the
committee if he or she were a member of that committee.

 (3) Sections 23 to 27 apply to such a committee and the
committee’s members subject to the following modifications:

(a) the reference in those sections to a relevant matter is a
     reference to a relevant matter (within the meaning of
     section 23) regulated or managed by the committee;

(b) the reference in those sections to a member of the public
     body is a reference to a committee member;

          (c) the reference in section 25 to disclosing details of an
              interest in a relevant matter to the responsible Minister for
              the public body is a reference to disclosing those details to
              the public body;

(d) the reference in section 26 to a discussion, decision,
     activity or meeting of the public body is a reference to a
     discussion, decision, activity or meeting of the committee;

          (e) the reference in section 27 to the public body reporting to
              the responsible Minister is a reference to the committee
              reporting to the public body.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                       Public Sector

29                   (Governance) Act 2018                   2020 Ed.

    Division 2 — Decision-making by public bodies

Procedure generally

 29. The members of a public body must regulate their own
procedure in accordance with —

    (a) this Act; and

    (b) any other specific requirements prescribed by any other
         Act not inconsistent with this Act.

Method of holding meetings

 30.—(1) A meeting of the public body may be held —

       (a) by a quorum of the members, being assembled together at
            the time and place appointed for the meeting; or

       (b) by means of audio, audio and visual, or electronic
            communication, provided that —

               (i) the public body resolves that the meeting, or that all
                   its meetings, may be held by such means;

              (ii) all of the members who wish to participate at the
                   meeting have access to the technology needed to
                   participate in the meeting; and

             (iii) a quorum of members can simultaneously
                   communicate with each other throughout the
                   meeting.

 (2) For the purposes of this Part, a member of a public body
participating in a meeting as permitted under subsection (1)(b)(i) is
taken to be present at the meeting of the public body.

Decision-making without meeting

 31.—(1) If —

       (a) a public body resolves that this section applies to any
            particular matter or all its matters;

       (b) all of the members of the public body for the time being are
            sent (whether by post, delivery or electronic

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    30

          communication) a document setting out a resolution about
          the matter or matters; and

          (c) a majority of those members who are entitled to vote on the
              matter sign or approve in writing a document containing a
              statement that they are in favour of a resolution in the terms
              set out in the document,

a resolution in those terms is taken to be passed at a meeting of the
public body as if it were held on the day that the last member required
for the majority signs or approves the document.

 (2) The resolution may consist of several documents each
containing the same wording of the resolution and statement in
favour, and each signed in writing by one or more members of a
public body.

 (3) For the purpose of the approval of a resolution under this
section, the chairperson and each member of the public body have the
same voting rights as they have as prescribed in or under its
constitutional Act at a meeting of the public body.

 (4) A resolution approved under this section must be recorded in the
minutes of the meetings of the public body after the resolution is
approved.

Delegation of functions

 32.—(1) Where a public body is permitted by its constitutional Act
or other written law to delegate the performance of any of the public
body’s functions (whether under this Act or other written law), unless
in such Act it is otherwise expressly provided, the power to delegate
does not extend to that power to delegate.

 (2) A delegation of functions of a public body under this section —

       (a) does not affect or prevent the performance of any function
            by the public body; and

       (b) is not affected by any change in the membership of the
            public body or of any committee, or by any change in the
            chief executive or employee of the public body.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                          Public Sector

31  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

                          PART 5

    FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION

Application of this Part

33.—(1) This Part applies to and in relation to —

    (a) every Group 1 public body to the extent provided in this
         Part;

    (b) every Group 2 public body; and

    (c) every Group 3B public body.

(2) To avoid doubt, this Part does not affect —

    (a) any power of the President under the Constitution in
         relation to any annual estimates or supplementary
         estimates of a Group 1 public body which is specified in
         the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution;

    (b) any power of the responsible Minister for a public body
         under the constitutional Act of the public body to approve
         any annual estimates or supplementary estimates of a
         public body or any part of those estimates; or

    (c) any specific requirement in or under a constitutional Act of
        a public body that delimits the time by, or form in,
        which —

    (i) the annual estimates or supplementary estimates of
        the public body must be prepared or given to a
        responsible Minister of the public body;

    (ii) the annual financial statements must be prepared for
         audit; or

    (iii) the audited financial statements must be sent to the
          responsible Minister.

Annual estimates

 34.—(1) A public body or its governing body must, in every
financial year of the public body, prepare or cause to be prepared, and
must adopt a statement containing annual estimates of its revenue and
expenditure for the following financial year.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    32

 (2) A copy of the statement of annual estimates mentioned in
subsection (1) must, upon their adoption by the public body or its
governing body (as the case may be), be sent as soon as possible to the
responsible Minister for the public body.

Supplementary estimates

 35.—(1) A public body or its governing body may, during its
financial year, prepare or cause to be prepared, and may adopt, a
statement containing supplementary estimates of its revenue and
expenditure for that financial year.

 (2) A copy of the statement of supplementary estimates mentioned
in subsection (1) must, upon their adoption by the public body or its
governing body (as the case may be), be sent as soon as possible to the
responsible Minister for the public body.

Financial accounts and records

 36. A public body must —

       (a) keep proper accounts and records of its transactions and
            affairs and in accordance with the requirements of written
            law; and

       (b) do all things necessary to ensure that —

               (i) all payments out of its moneys are correctly made
                   and properly authorised; and

              (ii) adequate control is maintained over the property and
                   assets of, or in the custody of, the public body and
                   over the expenditure incurred by the public body.

Auditor of public body

 37.—(1) The accounts of a public body must be audited by —

       (a) the Auditor-General; or

       (b) another auditor appointed annually by the responsible
            Minister for the public body in consultation with the
            Auditor‑General.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

33  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1)(b) unless the person is a public accountant who is
registered or deemed to be registered under the Accountants
Act 2004.

 (3) The remuneration of the auditor of a public body appointed
under subsection (1) must be paid out of the funds of the public body
unless otherwise provided in the constitutional Act of the public body.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to a Group 1B public
body.

Powers of auditor

 38.—(1) A public body must, as soon as practicable after the close
of each financial year but not later than the time (if any) delimited in
its constitutional Act, prepare and submit the financial statements in
respect of that year to the auditor of the public body, who must audit
and report on them.

 (2) For the purpose of auditing and reporting on the financial
statements submitted under subsection (1), the auditor of the public
body, or a person authorised by the auditor for that purpose (called in
this section an authorised person), is entitled at all reasonable
times —

       (a) to full and free access to all accounting and other records
            relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions
            of the public body;

       (b) to make copies of or take extracts from any of those
            accounting and other records; and

       (c) to require any person to furnish the auditor or authorised
            person with any information in the possession of that
            person, or to which that person has access, that the auditor
            or authorised person considers necessary for the purposes
            of the auditor’s functions under this Act.

 (3) A person —

       (a) who, without any reasonable cause, fails to comply with
            any requirement of the auditor of the public body or an
            authorised person under subsection (2); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    34

(b) who otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor or
     the authorised person in the performance of his or her
     functions or the exercise of his or her powers,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1,000.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to a Group 1B public
body.

Auditor’s report

 39.—(1) The report of the auditor of a public body about the
financial statements submitted under section 38(1) must state —

       (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
            transactions and the state of affairs of the public body;

       (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
            kept, including records of all assets of the public body
            whether purchased, donated or otherwise;

       (c) whether the receipts, expenditure, investment of moneys,
            and the acquisition and disposal of assets, by the public
            body during the financial year have been in accordance
            with this Act, the constitutional Act of the public body and
            the requirements of any other written law applicable to
            moneys of or managed by the public body; and

       (d) any other matters arising from the audit that the auditor
            considers should be reported.

 (2) The auditor of a public body must, as soon as practicable after
the accounts have been submitted to the auditor for audit, send a
report of the audit to the public body.

 (3) The auditor of a public body may at any other time report to the
responsible Minister for the public body through the public body
upon any matter arising out of the performance of an audit under this
Act.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to a Group 1B public
body.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

35  (Governance) Act 2018                                    2020 Ed.

Audited annual financial statements

 40.—(1) A public body must, as soon as its accounts and financial
statements have been audited in accordance with the provisions of
this Act, send to the responsible Minister for the public body a copy
of the audited financial statements, signed by the chairperson of the
public body, together with a copy of the auditor’s report under
section 39(1).

 (2) Where the auditor of a public body is not the Auditor‑General,
the auditor must forward a copy of the audited financial statements
and any report made by the auditor under section 39(1) to the
Auditor‑General at the same time they are submitted to the public
body.

 (3) The responsible Minister for a public body must, as soon as
practicable, cause a copy of the audited financial statements and of
the auditor’s report mentioned in subsection (1) to be presented to
Parliament.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to a Group 1B public
body.

Annual and other reports of public body

 41.—(1) A public body must, as soon as practicable after the end of
each financial year, cause to be prepared and transmitted to its
responsible Minister a report dealing generally with the activities of
the public body during the preceding financial year and containing
such information relating to the proceedings and policy of the public
body as the responsible Minister may, from time to time, direct.

 (2) The responsible Minister for a public body must, as soon as
practicable, cause to be presented to Parliament a copy of every report
under subsection (1) received from the public body.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply to or in relation to a Group 1B
public body.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                        Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                    36

                        PART 6

          GENERAL PROVISIONS

Amendment of Schedules

 42.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, add, delete or
replace any public body in any of the Schedules.

 (2) However, nothing in subsection (1) authorises adding the
Monetary Authority of Singapore to any of the Schedules.

Regulations

 43.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purposes of
this Act.

 (2) Regulations under subsection (1) may, in particular —

       (a) prescribe the procedure for a public body to obtain the
            concurrence of the Public Service Commission for any
            appointment or promotion of, or a disciplinary penalty to
            be imposed on, a chief executive of a public body;

       (b) make different provisions for different public bodies or
            different purposes; and

       (c) prescribe anything required or allowed to be prescribed for
            the purposes of this Act.

Presentation to Parliament

 44. All subsidiary legislation made under this Act must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

                                    PART 7

                           FINAL PROVISIONS

Saving and transitional provisions

 45.—(1) Any direction made or given before 1 April 2018 by a
responsible Minister to a public body under the constitutional Act of
the public body, or other written law administered by the public body,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
    Public Sector

37  (Governance) Act 2018                                     2020 Ed.

continues in force and is to be treated, on or after that date, as if made
or given under section 5.

(2) Section 15 does not apply to any individual who —

    (a) is appointed as the chief executive of a public body before
         1 April 2018; and

    (b) is holding that office immediately before that date.

 (3) Sections 16 and 18 apply to an individual who, on 1 April 2018,
holds the office of chief executive of a public body to which that
section applies.

 (4) Section 17 does not apply to any disciplinary penalty imposed
as a result of —

    (a) any disciplinary proceedings started by a public body
         before 1 April 2018; or

    (b) any disciplinary proceedings by a public body for
         misconduct carried out before that date even if
         disciplinary proceedings start on or after that date.

(5) Part 4 does not affect —

    (a) any meeting of a public body, notice of which was given
         before 1 April 2018 and not held or is adjourned
         immediately before that date, and that meeting may be
         continued, and everything in relation to that meeting may
         be done, in all respects after that date as if this Act had not
         been enacted; and

    (b) the continued operation or validity of any order or decision
         of any public body made before 1 April 2018, and that
         order or decision is to be treated as being made under the
         corresponding provisions of this Act.

 (6) Every individual who is a chief executive (regardless of
designation) of a public body, or an officer or employee of a public
body, immediately before 1 April 2018, continues to hold office as
such as if appointed under the constitutional Act of the public body as
amended by this Act.

                                                                             [112

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                            Public Sector

2020 Ed.                (Governance) Act 2018                        38

                           FIRST SCHEDULE                Sections 2 and 42

                         GROUP 1 PUBLIC BODIES
                                     PART 1

                        GROUP 1A PUBLIC BODIES

          Public body                        Constitutional Act

1. Accounting and Corporate        Accounting and Corporate Regulatory
   Regulatory Authority            Authority Act 2004

2. Agency for Science,             Agency for Science, Technology and
   Technology and Research         Research Act 1990

3. Building and Construction       Building and Construction Authority
   Authority                       Act 1999

4. [Deleted by Act 14 of 2022 wef
   01/08/2022]

5. Central Provident Fund          Central Provident Fund Act 1953
   Board

6. Civil Aviation Authority of     Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
   Singapore                       Act 2009

7. Civil Service College           Civil Service College Act 2001

7A. Communicable Diseases          Communicable Diseases Agency
     Agency                        Act 2025

8. Competition and Consumer        Competition Act 2004
   Commission of Singapore

9. Council for Estate Agencies Estate Agents Act 2010

10. Economic Development           Economic Development Board
     Board                         Act 1961

11. Energy Market Authority of Energy Market Authority of Singapore

          Singapore                Act 2001

12. Enterprise Singapore Board Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018

12A. Gambling Regulatory Authority Gambling Regulatory Authority of

          of Singapore             Singapore Act 2022

13. Government Technology          Government Technology Agency
     Agency                        Act 2016

14. Health Promotion Board         Health Promotion Board Act 2001

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                                 Public Sector

39                (Governance) Act 2018                                 2020 Ed.

                  FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    Public body                                 Constitutional Act

    15. Health Sciences Authority     Health Sciences Authority Act 2001

    16. Home Team Science and         Home Team Science and Technology
         Technology Agency            Agency Act 2019

    17. Housing and Development       Housing and Development Act 1959
         Board

    18. Info-communications Media Info-communications Media

    Development Authority             Development Authority Act 2016

    19. Inland Revenue Authority      Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
         of Singapore                 Act 1992

    20. Institute of Technical        Institute of Technical Education
         Education, Singapore         Act 1992

    21. Intellectual Property Office  Intellectual Property Office of
         of Singapore                 Singapore Act 2001

    22. ISEAS — Yusof Ishak           ISEAS — Yusof Ishak Institute
         Institute                    Act 1968

    23. Jurong Town Corporation       Jurong Town Corporation Act 1968

    24. Land Transport Authority of Land Transport Authority of Singapore

    Singapore                         Act 1995

    25. Maritime and Port Authority Maritime and Port Authority of

    of Singapore                      Singapore Act 1996

    26. Nanyang Polytechnic           Nanyang Polytechnic Act 1992

    27. National Arts Council         National Arts Council Act 1991

27A. National Council of Social       National Council of Social Service
       Service                        Act 1992

    28. National Environment Agency National Environment Agency
                                                 Act 2002

    29. National Heritage Board       National Heritage Board Act 1993

    30. National Library Board        National Library Board Act 1995

    31. National Parks Board          National Parks Board Act 1996

    32. Ngee Ann Polytechnic          Ngee Ann Polytechnic Act 1967

    33. Public Transport Council      Public Transport Council Act 1987

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                            Public Sector

2020 Ed.                    (Governance) Act 2018                     40

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          Public body                      Constitutional Act

34. Public Utilities Board       Public Utilities Act 2001

35. Republic Polytechnic         Republic Polytechnic Act 2002

36. Science Centre Board         Science Centre Act 1970

37. Sentosa Development          Sentosa Development Corporation
     Corporation                 Act 1972

38. Singapore Corporation of     Singapore Corporation of
     Rehabilitative Enterprises  Rehabilitative Enterprises Act 1975

39. Singapore Examinations and Singapore Examinations and

          Assessment Board       Assessment Board Act 2003

40. Singapore Food Agency        Singapore Food Agency Act 2019

41. Singapore Land Authority     Singapore Land Authority Act 2001

42. Singapore Polytechnic        Singapore Polytechnic Act 1954

43. Singapore Sports Council     Singapore Sports Council Act 1973

44. Singapore Totalisator Board Singapore Totalisator Board Act 1987

45. Singapore Tourism Board      Singapore Tourism Board Act 1963

46. Skills and Workforce         Skills and Workforce Development
     Development Agency          Agency Act 2026

47. Temasek Polytechnic          Temasek Polytechnic Act 1990

48. Urban Redevelopment          Urban Redevelopment Authority
     Authority                   Act 1989

49. [Deleted by Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

                                                    [Act 3 of 2026 wef 01/08/2026]
                                                   [Act 17 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

                                                    [Act 4 of 2025 wef 01/04/2025]
                                                   [Act 14 of 2022 wef 01/08/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                              Public Sector

41                          (Governance) Act 2018                2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
                   PART 2

     GROUP 1B PUBLIC BODIES

               Public body                   Constitutional Act

1. Defence Science and           Defence Science and Technology
   Technology Agency             Agency Act 2000

                 PART 3
    GROUP 1C PUBLIC BODIES

               Public body                   Constitutional Act
1. People’s Association          People’s Association Act 1960

                                                   [10/2018; 11/2019; 21/2019]

     SECOND SCHEDULE                               Sections 2 and 42

     GROUP 2 PUBLIC BODIES
                 PART 1

    GROUP 2A PUBLIC BODIES

               Public body                   Constitutional Act
1. Board of Architects           Architects Act 1991
2. Land Surveyors Board          Land Surveyors Act 1991
3. Professional Engineers Board  Professional Engineers Act 1991
4. Singapore Nursing Board       Nurses and Midwives Act 1999
5. Traditional Chinese Medicine  Traditional Chinese Medicine
                                 Practitioners Act 2000
   Practitioners Board

                 PART 2
    GROUP 2B PUBLIC BODIES

               Public body                   Constitutional Act
1. Singapore Dental Council      Dental Registration Act 1999
2. Singapore Medical Council     Medical Registration Act 1997

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
          Public Sector

2020 Ed.  (Governance) Act 2018                                      42

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               Public body                    Constitutional Act
3. Singapore Pharmacy Council     Pharmacists Registration Act 2007

             THIRD SCHEDULE            Sections 2 and 42

           GROUP 3 PUBLIC BODIES
                       PART 1

          GROUP 3A PUBLIC BODIES

               Public body                    Constitutional Act
1. Majlis Ugama Islam, Singapura
                                  Administration of Muslim Law
                                  Act 1966

                       PART 2
          GROUP 3B PUBLIC BODIES

               Public body          Constitutional Act

1. [Deleted by Act 3 of 2026 wef .
   01/08/2026]

                                    [Act 3 of 2026 wef 01/08/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                      PUBLIC SECTOR
                (GOVERNANCE) ACT 2018

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018

2. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 73 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/2018

First Reading         : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 73)

3. Act 11 of 2019 — Singapore Food Agency Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 66(5) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2019

First Reading         : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (section 66(5))

4. Act 21 of 2019 — Home Team Science and Technology Agency Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 51(4) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2019

First Reading         : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2019

Commencement          : 1 December 2019 (section 51(4))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                      ii

5. Act 40 of 2020 — Personal Data Protection (Amendment) Act 2020
   (Amendments made by section 43 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 37/2020

First Reading         : 5 October 2020

Second Reading        : 2 November 2020

Notice of Amendments  : 2 November 2020

Third Reading         : 2 November 2020

Commencement          : 1 February 2021 (section 43)

6. 2020 Revised Edition — Public Sector
                                    (Governance) Act 2018

Operation             : 31 December 2021

7. Act 33 of 2021 — Judicial Service (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2021

Bill                  : 30/2021

First Reading         : 4 October 2021

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 2021

Commencement          : 14 January 2022

8. Act 14 of 2022 — Gambling Regulatory Authority of Singapore Act 2022
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2022

First Reading         : 14 February 2022

Second and Third Readings : 11 March 2022

Commencement          : 1 August 2022

9. Act 4 of 2025 — Communicable Diseases Agency Act 2025
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 46/2024

First Reading         : 2 January 2025

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement          : 1 April 2025

10. Act 17 of 2026 — Skills and Workforce Development Agency Act 2026
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2026

First Reading         : 8 April 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
               iii

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement   : 1 July 2026

11. Act 3 of 2026 — National Council of Social Service (Amendment) Act
                           2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 21/2025

First Reading  : 5 November 2025

Second and Third Readings : 13 January 2026

Commencement   : 1 August 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
  COMPARATIVE TABLE

      PUBLIC SECTOR
(GOVERNANCE) ACT 2018

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                Act 5 of 2018
7—(4)
                                7—(3A)
   (5)                             (4)
   (6)                             (4A)
   (7)                             (5)
8—(3)
  (4)                           8—(2A)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  45
[Omitted as having had effect]  46
[Omitted as having had effect]  47
[Omitted as having had effect]  48
[Omitted as having had effect]  49
[Omitted as having had effect]  50
[Omitted as having had effect]  51
[Omitted as having had effect]  52
[Omitted as having had effect]  53
[Omitted as having had effect]  54
[Omitted as having had effect]  55
[Omitted as having had effect]  56
[Omitted as having had effect]  57
[Omitted as having had effect]  58
[Omitted as having had effect]  59
                                60
                                61

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                 2020 Ed.       ii
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]                  Act 5 of 2018
[Omitted as having had effect]   62
[Omitted as having had effect]   63
[Omitted as having had effect]   64
[Omitted as having had effect]   65
[Omitted as having had effect]   66
[Omitted as having had effect]   67
[Omitted as having had effect]   68
[Omitted as having had effect]   69
[Omitted as having had effect]   70
—                                71
[Omitted as having had effect]   72
[Omitted as having had effect]   73 [Repealed by Act 10 of 2018]
[Omitted as having had effect]   74
[Omitted as having had effect]   75
[Omitted as having had effect]   76
[Omitted as having had effect]   77
[Omitted as having had effect]   78
[Omitted as having had effect]   79
[Omitted as having had effect]   80
[Omitted as having had effect]   81
[Omitted as having had effect]   82
[Omitted as having had effect]   83
[Omitted as having had effect]   84
[Omitted as having had effect]   85
[Omitted as having had effect]   86
[Omitted as having had effect]   87
                                 88
                                 89

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
                 2020 Ed.       iii
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]                   Act 5 of 2018
[Omitted as having had effect]    90
[Omitted as having had effect]    91
[Omitted as having had effect]    92
[Omitted as having had effect]    93
[Omitted as having had effect]    94
[Omitted as having had effect]    95
[Omitted as having had effect]    96
[Omitted as having had effect]    97
[Omitted as having had effect]    98
[Omitted as having had effect]    99
[Omitted as having had effect]    100
[Omitted as having had effect]    101
[Omitted as having had effect]    102
[Omitted as having had effect]    103
—                                 104
[Omitted as having had effect]    105
[Omitted as having had effect]    106 [Repealed by Act 10 of 2018]
[Omitted as having had effect]    107
[Omitted as having had effect]    108
[Omitted as having had effect]    109
45                                110
[Omitted as spent]                111
                                  112
    (6)
[Omitted as spent]                    (6)
                                      (7)
                                      (8)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/8/2026
