THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                       NGEE ANN KONGSI

          (INCORPORATION) ORDINANCE 1933

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                                   2020 Ed.

        Ngee Ann Kongsi
(Incorporation) Ordinance 1933

Section                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.   Short title
     2.   Incorporation
     3.   Membership
     4.   Rights on incorporation
     5.   Office
     6.   Objects and purposes
     7.   Management
     8.   First Committee of Management
     9.   Officers
     9A.  Honorary Past Presidents
     9B.  Publication and advertisement of appointments
   10.    Proceedings of Committee of Management
   11.    Accounts, etc.
   12.    Annual meeting
   13.    Extraordinary general meetings
   14.    General meetings and notice thereof
   15.    Place of meeting
   16.    Proceedings at general meetings
   16A.   Amendment of Ordinance
   17.    Where records, etc., to be kept
   18.    The seal
   19.    Vesting of property
   20.    Immovable property of Corporation
   20A.   Moneys received by Corporation
   20B.   Subsidiaries of Corporation
   21.    Rules
   22.    Saving of Government and other rights
          First Schedule
          Second Schedule

                                                   1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2

An Ordinance to incorporate the Ngee Ann Kongsi.

                                          [10 March 1933]

  Whereas in or about the year 1845 the late Seah Eu Chin a Teochew
Merchant in Singapore and 12 other Teochew Merchants of
Singapore (hereinafter referred to as “the Founders”) of the
12 Sehnhs of clans Lim, Heng, Tan, Quek, Low, Chia, Goh, Teo,
Yeo, Ng, Sim and Chua respectively, subscribed, collected and
established funds for the promotion, propagation and observance of
the doctrines, ceremonies, rites and customs of the religion or
religions (other than the Christian religion) commonly professed or
maintained by the Teochew Community in Singapore and for such
other charitable purposes for the benefit of the members in Singapore
of the Teochew Community who originated from the 8 Districts
(hereinafter referred to as “the said Eight Districts”) following, viz:
The Teo Ann District, Theng Hai District, Teo Yeonh District, Kit
Yeonh District, Jeow Pheng District, Phow Leng District, Hui Lye
District and Nam Oh District of the Kwangtung Province of China as
the Founders in their discretion thought fit to assist or contribute to:

  And whereas the Founders established a society (hereinafter
referred to as “the said Society”) in Singapore called or known as
“The Ngee Ann Kongsi” for the purposes hereinbefore mentioned
and for the purposes of administering and managing the properties
purchased with such funds and the income derived in respect thereof
and the said Seah Eu Chin and others of the Founders were the first
trustees of the said Society:

  And whereas the said Society acquired land at Phillip Street in
Singapore upon which was erected a temple (hereinafter referred to as
“the Teochew Temple”) for the observance of the doctrines,
ceremonies, rites and customs of the religions (other than the
Christian religion) professed and maintained by the members in
Singapore of the Teochew Community of the said Eight Districts:

  And whereas the said Society purchased or otherwise acquired
other lands in Singapore which were and are used as sites of temples
and as burial grounds for the members in Singapore of the Teochew
Community of the said Eight Districts and for other purposes of the
said Society:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Ngee Ann Kongsi

3  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

  And whereas the said Society never adopted any definite rules or
by-laws for the purpose of defining its objects, constitution,
management and administration, and the management of its affairs
and its administration generally were left in the hands and to the
discretion of the persons who from time to time acted as Trustees of
the said Society:

  And whereas the Trustees of the said Society were changed from
time to time and the persons who immediately before the
consideration and conferences hereinafter more particularly
referred to were the Trustees of the said Society were the persons
following, that is to say, Seah Eng Tong of Bendemeer, Serangoon
Road, Singapore, Seah Chin Mui of No. 58, River Valley Road,
Singapore, Kwek Liang Choon of Chop Kwek Khai Seng of No. 60,
Chulia Street, Singapore, Low Peng Soy of Chop Low Yong Hong of
No. 57, Boat Quay, Singapore, Chan Kim Seng of Chop Chan Yong
Soon of No. 561, Beach Road, Singapore, Goh Tek Chng of Chop
Goh Yong Buan Long of No. 51, Circular Road, Singapore, Teo
Keong Meng of Chop Teo Nguan Hwa of No. 49, North Boat Quay,
Singapore, Heng Pang Keat of Chop Heng Say Yee Heng of No. 7,
North Canal Road, Singapore, Yeo Huang Kok of Chop Yeo Liang
Huat of No. 21, Teochew Street, Singapore, Tan Miang Long of Chop
Tan Liang Seng of No. 25, Hertford Road, Singapore, Ng Chok Sam
of Chop Ng Hock Seng of No. 55, River Valley Road, Singapore, Sim
Ka Siew of Chop Sim Kheng Soon Seng of No. 48, Circular Road,
Singapore, Chua Ngak Chew of No. 21, Carpenter Street, Singapore,
Lim Hak Khiam of No. 1-B, River Valley Road, Singapore:

  And whereas the property, affairs and management of the said
Society were the subject of consideration and conferences between
the several persons mentioned in the last preceding recital and other
influential members in Singapore of the Teochew Community of the
said Eight Districts, viz: — “Lim Nee Soon of Chop Thong Mui, 112
and 144 Robinson Road, Singapore, Yeo Chan Boon of Chop Yong
Guan Seng, 60 Circular Road, Singapore, Tan Chew Char of Chop
Sam Lye Heng, 10 Carpenter Street, Singapore, Lee Wee Nam of
Chop Chye Hua Seng, 17 New Bridge Road, Singapore, Goh Yang
Pheng of Chop Siang Hua, 58 Boat Quay, Singapore, Yeo Choo Tian
of Chop Long Huat, 35 Circular Road, Singapore, Chew Swee Lin of

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           4

Chop Nam Heng Hak Kee, 4-5 Fish Street, Singapore, Tan Lip Sek of
Chop Tan Guan Lee, 79 Boat Quay, Singapore, Quek Theng Thong of
Chop Teo Siang Guan Kee, 65 Circular Road, Singapore, Sim Ai Tng
of Chop Kheng Soon Long, 9 Circular Road, Singapore, Lim Woo
Ngam of Chop Seng Moh, 166-5 Middle Road, Singapore, Nah Wee
Liat of Chop Wee Heng, 253 South Bridge Road, Singapore, Tan
Guan Chua of Chop Chua Seng Heng, 20-14, Armenian Street,
Singapore, and Low Chia Heng of Chop Low Miang Heng, 25 and 26
Circular Road, Singapore” and as a result of such consideration and
conferences in which the aforesaid persons were assisted by the
Secretary for Chinese Affairs, it was considered expedient that the
said Society should be incorporated, and that its constitution should
be governed by definite rules, and that the administration of its
property and affairs should be vested in the Society when
incorporated as aforesaid so that the Society might be enabled
better to carry out its objects:

  And whereas subsequent to the said consideration and conferences
the administration and management of the affairs, property and funds
of the Society were on 8 September 1930 handed over to the
following persons, that is to say, to Lim Nee Soon, Low Peng Soy,
Lee Wee Nam, Tan Lip Sek, Lim Woo Ngam, Yeo Choo Tian, Kwek
Liang Choon, Liau Chia Heng, Yeo Chan Boon, Tan Chew Char, Goh
Teck Chng, Tan Miang Long, Sim Ka Siew, Goh Yang Pheng, Kwek
Soo Kow, Low Chia Heng, Lim Soo Siam, Chew Swee Lin, Nah Wee
Liat, Kwek Teng Thong, Low Peng Soo, Lee Kim Soo, Lim Chong
Pang and Seah Eng Tong, who from the time of such handing over
have acted as Trustees of the said Society.

  Now it is hereby enacted by the Governor of the Straits Settlements
with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council thereof as
follows:

Short title

 1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Ngee Ann Kongsi
(Incorporation) Ordinance 1933.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               Ngee Ann Kongsi

5              (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933               2020 Ed.

Incorporation

 2. The persons whose names are from time to time inscribed in the

Register of Members hereinafter mentioned shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter called “the Corporation”) and shall have perpetual
succession under the name of “The Ngee Ann Kongsi”.

Membership

 3.—(1) The Committee of Management hereinafter mentioned
shall within one month after 10 March 1933 cause to be inserted for
not less than 2 consecutive weeks in at least 2 of the Chinese daily
newspapers circulating in Singapore notices inviting persons eligible
to become members of the Corporation to apply for registration as
members of the Corporation, and when and as often as application for
membership shall be received or within a reasonable time thereafter
the Committee of Management shall consider the same and shall elect
to be members of the Corporation such applicants for membership as
it shall in its absolute discretion consider desirable to elect.

 (2) No person shall be eligible for membership of the Corporation
unless at the time of his application for membership —

       (a) he has attained the age of 21 years and has ordinarily
            resided in Singapore for not less than 2 years and is a
            member of the Teochew Community of or originating from
            one of the said Eight Districts; and

       (b) he fills up and signs a declaration in the form set forth in
            the First Schedule.

 (3) If any applicant for membership whose application shall be
rejected by the Committee of Management shall enquire the reasons
for such rejection, the Committee of Management may, but shall not
be bound to, state such reasons.

 (4) No applicant for membership whose application shall be
rejected by the Committee of Management shall be entitled again
to apply for membership of the Corporation until the expiration of
6 months from the date of his previous application.

 (5) The Committee of Management shall within one month after
10 March 1933 cause to be kept a Register of Members of the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           6

Corporation and to be inscribed therein the name, address and
occupation of every person elected to be a member of the Corporation
and the date of his election.

Rights on incorporation

 4.—(1) The Corporation shall have and may use a corporate seal
which may from time to time be broken, changed, altered and made
anew as to the Corporation shall seem fit.

 (2) The Corporation may sue and be sued in respect of its property
and otherwise in all Courts of Justice.

 (3) The Corporation may acquire, purchase, lease, take, hold and
enjoy movable and immovable property of every description and
subject as hereinafter provided may sell, exchange, convey, assign,
surrender and yield up, mortgage, demise, re-assign, transfer or
otherwise dispose of and deal with any movable and immovable
property vested in the Corporation upon such terms as to the
Corporation shall seem fit.

Office

 5. The Corporation shall have an office at the Teochew Temple in
Phillip Street, Singapore, or at such other place as may from time to
time be decided.

Objects and purposes

 6. The objects and general purposes of the Corporation shall be —

       (a) the promotion, propagation and observance of the
            doctrines, ceremonies, rites and customs of the religion
            or religions (other than the Christian religion) commonly
            professed or maintained in Singapore by members of the
            Teochew Community of the said Eight Districts;

       (b) the maintenance, administration and improvement of and,
            if necessary, enlargement and rebuilding of the Teochew
            Temple and the maintenance, administration and
            improvement and, if necessary, the enlargement or
            rebuilding of any other temple which may belong to or
            be acquired by the Corporation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Ngee Ann Kongsi

7  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

   (c) the maintenance, administration and improvement and, if
       necessary, the enlargement and development of all burial
       grounds and other property belonging to or acquired by the
       Corporation, and the Corporation shall be at liberty to
       develop for building or other purposes any land belonging
       to or acquired by the Corporation which is not required for
       use as a burial ground;

   (d) the establishment, maintenance, administration and
        improvement in Singapore of any school or schools for
        the advancement of the moral, intellectual and physical
        education and wellbeing of scholars thereat and the general
        promotion and advancement of education of scholars from
        any school or schools in Singapore which is, are or may be
        regulated, conducted, maintained or controlled from time
        to time by members of the Teochew Community of the said
        Eight Districts or by any person;

   (e) the support or assistance towards the support of poor
       Teochew students below the age of 20 years who desire to
       prosecute higher studies in Singapore or abroad and who
       shall be considered deserving of such support or
       assistance; and

   (f) such other charitable purposes for the benefit of the
       Teochew Community in Singapore of the said Eight
       Districts, or any community in Singapore, as shall be
       considered desirable.

                                                                                                   [37/2007]

Management

 7.—(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by a
Committee of Management.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (2) Each of the following persons shall ex-officio be and be entitled
to act as a member of the Committee of Management (referred to in
this Act as an ex-officio member) if he is eligible for membership of
the Corporation, whether or not he is a member of the Corporation:

       (a) every Chinese Member of Parliament who is a Teochew;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           8

(b) a representative of the Singapore Chinese Chamber of
     Commerce and Industry who is a Teochew and is the
     President or a Vice-President of the Singapore Chinese
     Chamber of Commerce and Industry;

          (c) a representative of the Singapore Teochew Poit Ip Huay
              Kuan who is the President or a Vice-President of the
              Singapore Teochew Poit Ip Huay Kuan; and

(d) a representative of the family of the late Seah Eu Chin who
     is nominated by his descendants.

                                                                                                 [37/2007]

 (3) The members of the Committee of Management (other than the
ex-officio members and the first members of the Committee of
Management referred to in section 8) shall comprise —

(a) 20 persons elected from the members of the Corporation
     (each referred to in this Act as an elected member); and

(b) not more than 5 persons co-opted by the Committee of
     Management from the members of the Corporation (each
     referred to in this Act as a co-opted member).

                                                                                                 [37/2007]

 (4) If any person entitled to act as an ex-officio member shall hold
more than one of the public appointments specified in subsection (2),
such person shall specify in writing the public appointment in respect
of which he desires to exercise his right to act, and shall exercise such
right in respect only of the public appointment held by him so
specified.

 (5) If any person entitled to act as an ex-officio member ceases to
hold the public appointment or appointments specified in
subsection (2) entitling him so to act —

(a) he shall cease to be a member of the Committee of
     Management; and

(b) any vacancy in the Committee of Management thereby
     created may be filled by another person who holds that
     public appointment, is eligible for membership of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Ngee Ann Kongsi

9  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

            Corporation and is elected by the Committee of
            Management.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (5A) If any person entitled to act as an ex-officio member is unable
or refuses to accept appointment or to act as an ex-officio member —

   (a) he shall cease to be a member of the Committee of
        Management, notwithstanding that he may continue to
        hold any public appointment specified in subsection (2);
        and

         (b) any vacancy in the Committee of Management thereby
              created may be filled by another person who holds that
              public appointment, is eligible for membership of the
              Corporation and is elected by the Committee of
              Management.

                                                                                                            [37/2007]

   (6) Every elected member of the Committee of Management —

   (a) shall retire from office at the second annual general
        meeting of the Corporation held next after he became a
        member of the Committee of Management; but

         (b) shall be eligible for re-election, or to be co-opted by the
              Committee of Management appointed, at the annual
              general meeting of the Corporation at which he retires.

                                                                                                            [37/2007]

   (6A) Every co-opted member of the Committee of Management —

   (a) shall retire from office at the annual general meeting of the
        Corporation at which the elected members of the
        Committee of Management which co-opted him retire
        from office under subsection (6)(a); but

       (b) shall be eligible for election, or to be co-opted by the
            Committee of Management appointed, at the annual
            general meeting of the Corporation at which he retires.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (7) The members of the Committee of Management appointed at
any annual general meeting of the Corporation shall take over the
duties of the members of the outgoing Committee of Management on

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           10

or before the 15th day of the third lunar month in each year according
to the old Chinese calendar.

 (8) If any member of the Committee of Management desires to
retire from acting as such he shall give to the Corporation one
month’s notice in writing of such his desire, and his resignation shall
take effect from the date of the expiration of such notice or its earlier
acceptance by the remaining members of the Committee of
Management.

 (9) Subject to subsections (5) and (5A), if for any cause any casual
vacancy shall occur in the Committee of Management such vacancy
may be filled by a member of the Corporation elected by the
Committee of Management, and any person so elected shall (unless
otherwise arranged at the time of his election) hold office for the
remainder of the period during which the member in whose place he
shall be elected would have held office had such vacancy not
occurred.

 (10) For the purposes of an election under the provisions of
subsection (9) the Committee of Management shall take into
consideration such one or more, not exceeding 10 of those persons
who at the last previous election of members of the Committee of
Management at an annual general meeting was or were proposed for
election but did not then receive sufficient votes.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (11) No person shall be eligible for election as a member of the
Committee of Management unless —

(a) he shall have attained the age of 22 years and is a person
     professing the religions (other than the Christian religion)
     professed by members or some of the members in
     Singapore of the Teochew Community of the said Eight
     Districts;

(b) he shall have been a member of the Corporation for at least
     6 months prior to the date of the annual general meeting of
     the Corporation or other date at which his election is
     proposed.

 (12) If any member of the Committee of Management becomes
bankrupt he shall ipso facto vacate office.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

11  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

 (13) If in the opinion of the Committee of Management any
member thereof shall misconduct himself or his affairs, or otherwise
be or become unfit to continue to act, he may, by the vote of
two-thirds of the members of the Committee of Management
attending at a meeting specially called to consider the matter, be
expelled from the Committee of Management but he shall at the said
meeting be given an opportunity of explaining his conduct, or the
matters giving rise to the calling of the meeting, and no vote shall be
passed at such meeting unless such opportunity aforesaid shall have
been given.

First Committee of Management

 8. The first members of the Committee of Management shall be the
following:—

       (a) Lim Nee Soon of Chop Thong Mui of Nos. 112/114,
            Robinson Road, Singapore;

       (b) Lee Wee Nam of Chop Chye Hua Seng of No. 17, New
            Bridge Road, Singapore;

       (c) Goh Yang Pheng of Chop Siang Hua of No. 58, Boat Quay,
            Singapore;

       (d) Yeo Choo Tian of Chop Long Huat of No. 35, Circular
            Road, Singapore;

       (e) Chew Swee Lin of Chop Nam Heng Hak Kee of Nos. 4/5,
            Fish Street, Singapore;

        (f) Tan Lip Sek of Chop Tan Guan Lee of No. 79, Boat Quay,
            Singapore;

       (g) Quek Theng Thong of Chop Teo Siang Guan Kee of
            No. 65, Circular Road, Singapore;

       (h) Lim Woo Ngam of Chop Seng Moh of No. 754, North
            Bridge Road, Singapore;

        (i) Nah Wee Liat of Chop Wee Heng of No. 81, Boat Quay,
            Singapore;

        (j) Tan Guan Chua of Chop Chua Seng Heng of No. 20-14,
            Armenian Street, Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           12

          (k) Low Chia Heng of Chop Low Hong Thye of No. 30,
              Circular Road, Singapore;

          (l) Low Peng Soy of Chop Yong Hong of No. 57, Boat Quay,
              Singapore;

(m) Kwek Liang Choon of Chop Quek Khye Seng of No. 30,
     Boat Quay, Singapore;

(n) Liau Chia Heng of Chop Buan Mui Seng of No. 5,
     Cumming Street, Singapore;

(o) Yeo Chan Boon of Chop Yong Guan Seng of No. 60,
     Circular Road, Singapore;

(p) Tan Chew Char of Chop Sin Heng of No. 1167, Serangoon
     Road, Singapore;

(q) Goh Teck Chng of Chop Yong Buan Long of No. 51,
     Circular Road, Singapore;

          (r) Tan Miang Long of Chop Liang Seng of No. 326, Thomson
              Road, Singapore;

          (s) Sim Ka Siew of Chop Kheng Soon Seng of No. 57, Boat
              Quay, Singapore;

          (t) Quek Soo Kow of Chop Kow Hak of No. 12, North Canal
              Road, Singapore;

(u) Lim Soo Siam of Chop Yong Swee Seng of No. 66, Canal
     Road, Singapore;

          (v) Low Peng Soo of Chop Low Joon Hong of No. 31, Boat
              Quay, Singapore;

(w) Lee Kim Soo of Chop Kwang Moh of No. 89, High Street,
     Singapore;

          (x) Lim Chong Pang of Chop Thong Yak of Nos. 112/114,
              Robinson Road, Singapore;

          (y) Seah Eng Tong of Chop Chin Heng of No. 4, North Bridge
              Road, Singapore,

and the first members of the Committee of Management shall be
entitled to hold office until 25 January 1933, or until the second

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

13  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

annual general meeting of the Corporation, whichever shall be the
later date.

Officers

 9.—(1) The Committee of Management shall in such manner as
they think fit elect from their number a President, 2 Vice-Presidents,
an Honorary Secretary and an Honorary Treasurer, and in addition
shall appoint an Assistant to the Honorary Secretary and an auditor or
auditors, and such persons are hereinafter referred to as “the officers”
of the Corporation.

 (2) No person shall be elected or appointed to be an officer of the
Corporation unless he shall have attained the age of 25 years.

 (3) If any officer of the Corporation shall during his term of office
be absent from Singapore or incapacitated from acting as such officer
the remaining elected members of the Committee of Management
may appoint one of their number or some other proper person to act in
the place of the officer absent or incapacitated from acting, and any
person so appointed shall hold office only during the absence or
incapacity of the officer in whose place he shall have been appointed
and in any event shall cease to hold office at the next annual general
meeting of the Corporation.

 (4) Any person elected to be the President or Honorary Treasurer of
the Corporation for 2 years shall not be entitled to hold office as such
for the next ensuing 2 years.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

Honorary Past Presidents

 9A.—(1) The Committee of Management may appoint one or more
Honorary Past Presidents to serve as advisers to the Committee of
Management.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (2) No person shall be eligible for appointment as an Honorary Past
President unless he is —

    (a) a member of the Corporation; and

    (b) a former President of the Corporation.

                                                             [37/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           14

 (3) The term of office of an Honorary Past President shall end on
the date on which the members of the Committee of Management
(other than ex-officio members) which appointed him retire from
office under section 7(6)(a) and (6A)(a).

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (4) Every person who has been appointed as an Honorary Past
President shall be eligible for re-appointment.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

Publication and advertisement of appointments

 9B. The particulars of every appointment of an officer of the
Corporation, a member of the Committee of Management, or an
Honorary Past President, including the name, address and occupation
of the person appointed, the date of the appointment, and the office to
which the person was appointed, shall be —

       (a) published in the Gazette within 21 days after the date of the
            appointment; and

       (b) advertised in at least 2 issues of one Chinese daily
            newspaper circulating in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

Proceedings of Committee of Management

 10.—(1) The Committee of Management shall meet together at
least once in every 3 months to discuss the management and affairs of
the Corporation and 7 members shall form a quorum.

 (2) The President, or in his absence one of the Vice-Presidents of
the Corporation, shall preside at all meetings of the Committee of
Management, but if at the time appointed for the meeting the
President and both Vice-Presidents shall be absent the members
present shall appoint one of their number to preside.

 (3) All questions arising at any meeting of the Committee of
Management shall be decided by a majority of votes on a show of
hands or on a ballot if a ballot be demanded by at least 3 members,
and each member present shall be entitled to one vote, and in the case
of an equality of votes the member presiding at the meeting shall have
a second or casting vote.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

15  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

 (4) The Honorary Secretary shall cause to be kept minutes of the
proceedings of all meetings of the Committee of Management and
such minutes shall be submitted for confirmation at such meeting or
at the next succeeding meeting of the Committee of Management and
if then confirmed shall be signed by the Chairman of the meeting at
which such confirmation is made and thereafter shall be prima facie
evidence of all proceedings evidenced thereby.

Accounts, etc.

 11.—(1) The Honorary Treasurer shall cause proper books of
account to be kept and therein to be entered full particulars of all
assets and liabilities and of all receipts and disbursements on account
of the Corporation and of all other matters and things relative thereto
and necessary to explain such entries.

 (2) Not later than the last day of the first lunar month in each year
according to the old Chinese calendar the Honorary Treasurer shall
cause to be prepared a statement in the form of a balance sheet
containing particulars of all assets and liabilities of the Corporation
and an account of the receipts and disbursements during the Chinese
year preceding.

 (3) The accounts kept by the Honorary Treasurer and the annual
statement prepared by him in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding subsections shall be audited by the auditor or auditors as
and when requested by the Committee of Management, and the
auditor or auditors shall certify in writing the result of his or their
audit.

 (4) When and as soon as the annual statement above referred to
shall have been audited as aforesaid a copy thereof shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the office of the Corporation for at least 7 days
prior to the holding of the next annual meeting of the Corporation.

Annual meeting

 12.—(1) The Corporation shall once every year on or before the last
day of the second lunar month according to the old Chinese calendar
hold an annual meeting of members.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           16

 (2) The business to be transacted at each annual meeting shall be the
consideration of the annual statement and accounts of the
Corporation for the preceding year and the consideration of any
question raised as to the management of the affairs of the
Corporation, and at every alternate annual general meeting the
business shall also include the election of the members of the
Committee of Management to take the place of those retiring.

Extraordinary general meetings

 13.—(1) Upon receipt of a requisition by at least 5 members of the
Committee of Management or by at least 10 members of the
Corporation the Committee of Management shall proceed to convene
an extraordinary general meeting of the Corporation.

 (2) The requisition shall state the objects of the meeting and shall be
signed by the requisitionists and deposited at the office of the
Corporation. The requisition may consist of more documents than
one provided the same are duly signed and specify the same or similar
objects.

 (3) The Committee of Management shall within 10 days from the
receipt of the requisition aforesaid cause an acknowledgment thereof
to be sent to the requisitionists and shall within 20 days from the
receipt of such requisition cause an extraordinary general meeting to
be held to discuss the objects specified in the requisition.

 (4) If the Committee of Management does not within the time
aforesaid cause an extraordinary general meeting of the Corporation
to be held in the manner aforesaid the requisitionists or a majority of
them may themselves convene the meeting, and any meeting
convened by requisitionists shall be convened in the same manner
as nearly as possible as that in which such meetings ought to be
convened by the Committee of Management.

General meetings and notice thereof

 14.—(1) The annual general meeting and all extraordinary general
meetings are hereinafter referred to as general meetings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                     Ngee Ann Kongsi

17  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

 (2) The Committee of Management shall serve a written notice of
every general meeting not less than 7 clear days before the day on
which the general meeting is to be held.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (3) The notice under subsection (2) shall be served on every
member of the Corporation, and on every ex-officio member (not
being a member of the Corporation), who has provided to the
Corporation an address for service —

    (a) personally;

    (b) by post addressed to him at his address for service; or

       (c) by delivering the notice to his address for service.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (4) Where the notice under subsection (2) is sent by post, it shall be
deemed to be served at the time when the notice would, in the
ordinary course of post, be delivered.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (5) In proving service of the notice under subsection (2) by post, it
shall be sufficient to prove that the cover containing the notice was
properly addressed, stamped and posted.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (6) Notwithstanding subsections (2) and (3), the proceedings at a
general meeting are not invalidated by reason only of —

    (a) any accidental omission to give the notice under
         subsection (2) to any person; or

       (b) the non-receipt by any person of the notice under
            subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (7) The Committee of Management shall cause a notice of every
general meeting to be advertised in one Chinese daily newspaper
circulating in Singapore not less than 7 clear days before the day on
which the general meeting is to be held.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (8) The notice under subsection (7) shall specify —

    (a) the date, time and place of the general meeting;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           18

(b) the general nature of the business to be transacted at the
     general meeting; and

          (c) in the case of any special business, concise particulars of
              that business.

                                                                                                          [37/2007]

Place of meeting

 15. Every general meeting of the Corporation shall be held at the
office of the Corporation or at such other place as may be specified by
the Committee of Management or if called under the provisions of
section 13 by the requisitionists in the notice calling such meeting.

Proceedings at general meetings

 16.—(1) Subject to subsection (1A), 20 members of the
Corporation shall form a quorum at any general meeting.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (1A) If, after 30 minutes from the time appointed for a general
meeting, there are fewer than 20 members of the Corporation present
at the place of the general meeting, any 10 or more members of the
Corporation present at that place shall form a quorum for the general
meeting.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (2) The President of the Corporation or in his absence one of the
Vice-Presidents shall be entitled to take the chair at every general
meeting, but in the absence of the President and Vice-Presidents at the
time appointed for any general meeting the members present may
elect a member of the Committee of Management to take the chair.

 (3) Every question arising at a general meeting shall unless
otherwise decided be decided by a majority of votes on a ballot,
and every member present shall be entitled to one vote, and in case of
an equality of votes the member presiding at the meeting shall have a
second or casting vote.

 (4) The Honorary Secretary (or some other person appointed for the
purpose by the Chairman of the Meeting) shall cause minutes to be
kept of all proceedings at every general meeting of the Corporation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

19  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

Amendment of Ordinance

 16A. The Committee of Management shall not propose any
amendment to this Ordinance without the prior approval of a
majority of the members of the Corporation present at a general
meeting.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

Where records, etc., to be kept

 17.—(1) The Register of Members, the minutes of proceedings at
all general meetings of the Corporation and at all meetings of the
members of the Committee of Management, and the books of account
of the Corporation, shall be kept at the office of the Corporation and
shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by any member of
the Corporation, provided that the written permission of the President
or a Vice-President be obtained prior to such inspection.

 (2) The title deeds and securities of the Corporation shall be kept at
such place and in such custody as the President of the Corporation
with the approval of the Committee of Management shall decide, and
the President of the Corporation shall be responsible for their safe
custody.

The seal

 18.—(1) The seal of the Corporation shall be kept at the office of
the Corporation and shall not be used except by the authority of a
resolution of the Committee of Management, and all deeds and other
documents requiring to be sealed shall be sealed with such seal in the
presence of and shall be signed by the President of the Corporation or
one of the Vice-Presidents and by the Honorary Secretary and one
other member of the Committee of Management.

 (2) The signatures of the President or Vice-President and the
Honorary Secretary and one member of the Committee of
Management shall for all purposes be accepted as sufficient
evidence of the due sealing of all deeds, documents and other
instruments sealed on behalf of the Corporation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                     Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           20

Vesting of property

 19.—(1) The several persons mentioned in the third column of the
Second Schedule or the survivors or survivor of them or the personal
representative or representatives of the last survivor of them, being
the persons or person in whom are vested the respective estates and
interests mentioned in the second column of the said Schedule in the
lands, hereditaments and premises specified in the first column of the
said Schedule, are hereby divested of such estates and interests, and
such estates and interests are hereby vested in the Corporation as
trustee for the members in Singapore of the Teochew Community of
the said Eight Districts subject nevertheless to all conditions of tenure
incident thereto and to any trusts affecting the same but with full
power subject as aforesaid for the Corporation as such trustee to deal
with the property so vested in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance.

 (2) All moneys and movable property held by any person on behalf
of the said Society and all moneys subscribed for the purposes of the
Corporation and all property movable or immovable purchased or
agreed to be purchased with such moneys shall be vested in the
Corporation and the same and all subscriptions and donations to the
Corporation shall be held by the Corporation in trust for the purposes
in this Ordinance declared.

 (3) Within 3 months after 10 March 1933, the persons who prior to
10 March 1933, have been or have been acting as Trustees of the said
Society, and who are not members of the Committee of Management
referred to in section 8, shall deliver to the first members of the
Committee of Management all deeds, documents of title, securities,
moneys and other movable property of the said Society in their
possession or under their control, and thereafter the Committee of
Management shall be responsible therefor, and all debts due to the
said Society on 10 March 1933, shall be payable to the Corporation,
and the Committee of Management shall out of the funds of the
Corporation pay all debts payable by the said Society.

Immovable property of Corporation

 20.—(1) The Corporation shall not sell, exchange, mortgage, lease
(otherwise than upon a tenancy not exceeding 3 years) or otherwise

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

21  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

alienate or encumber any immovable property belonging to the
Corporation without the permission of the General Division of the
High Court, and the Corporation shall not purchase any immovable
property out of the funds of the Corporation without such permission,
and no application to the General Division of the High Court for such
permission shall be made without a resolution being first passed at a
general meeting of members held for such purpose.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                                                [37/2007; 40/2019]

 (2) An application for such permission shall be made to the Court
by originating application supported by an affidavit setting out the
facts and reasons for which the Corporation desires to sell, exchange,
mortgage or otherwise alienate or encumber or purchase the
immovable property, and the application shall seek a decree of the
court as in a suit relating to charities.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

 (3) A copy of every such application shall be served on the
Attorney-General a reasonable time before the hearing of the
application.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

 (4) The Attorney-General may oppose the application, and if, after
hearing him, the General Division of the High Court is of opinion that
it will be for the general advantage of the Corporation and the
members of the Teochew Community for whose benefit the
Corporation is maintained to grant the application the General
Division of the High Court may make a decree to that effect.

                                                                                                [42/2005; 40/2019]

 (5) The application to the General Division of the High Court and
the decree of the General Division of the High Court shall be recited
in the conveyance, assignment, mortgage, lease or other assurance of
the immovable property to be given to the purchaser, mortgagee,
lessee or other person or taken by the Corporation.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (6) Any immovable property so sold, exchanged, leased or
otherwise alienated, except by way of mortgage, shall be held by
the purchaser or person exchanging or otherwise taking the same free
from the trusts imposed under this Ordinance.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           22

Moneys received by Corporation

 20A.—(1) The Committee of Management shall, in each
accounting period of the Corporation, set apart 75% of the net
income of the Corporation in that accounting period, and shall, by the
end of the next accounting period, donate —

(a) 25% of the net income to the Ngee Ann Polytechnic
     constituted under the Ngee Ann Polytechnic Act 1967;

(b) 40% of the net income to such other educational
     institutions and in such manner as the Minister may
     approve; and

       (c) 10% of the net income to other charitable purposes in
            Singapore.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the net income of the
Corporation in any accounting period of the Corporation shall be the
amount determined in accordance with the following formula:

          A − B þ C;

          where A . is the amount of all moneys received by the
                         Corporation in that accounting period by way
                         of income from any source other than —

                         (a) the sale, disposition or compulsory
                              acquisition of any relevant asset or
                              immovable property belonging to the
                              Corporation; and

                         (b) the withdrawal of any relevant deposit
                              belonging to the Corporation;

                  B is the amount which is the total of —

                         (a) all operating expenses reasonably incurred
                              by the Corporation during that accounting
                              period; and

                         (b) any depreciation in the value of the fixed
                              assets of the Corporation during that
                              accounting period; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

23  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

    C is the amount of all moneys received by the
          Corporation, whether by way of income or
          otherwise, in the accounting period
          immediately preceding that accounting period
          from —

           (a) the sale, disposition or compulsory
                acquisition of any relevant asset or
                immovable property belonging to the
                Corporation; and

           (b) the withdrawal of any relevant deposit
                belonging to the Corporation,

          which at the end of the accounting period
          second-mentioned in this definition were not
          utilised for the purchase of any relevant asset or
          immovable property, or the making of any
          relevant deposit, by the Corporation.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (3) Subject to subsections (1) and (2), no moneys received by the
Corporation, whether by way of income or otherwise, from —

       (a) the sale, disposition or compulsory acquisition of any
            relevant asset or immovable property belonging to the
            Corporation; or

       (b) the withdrawal of any relevant deposit belonging to the
            Corporation,

shall be utilised otherwise than for the purchase of any relevant asset
or immovable property, or the making of any relevant deposit, by the
Corporation.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (4) All moneys received by the Corporation, whether by way of
income or otherwise, shall, as soon as practicable, be deposited in a
relevant bank account pending the utilisation of those moneys.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (5) Subject to subsections (1), (2) and (3), no moneys deposited in
any relevant bank account shall be utilised otherwise than for —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           24

(a) the purchase of any relevant asset or immovable property,
     or the making of any relevant deposit, by the Corporation;

(b) the payment of any operating expenses reasonably incurred
     by the Corporation;

          (c) the making of any donation referred to in subsection (1); or

(d) the making of any donation for any purpose consistent with
     the objects and general purposes of the Corporation
     referred to in section 6.

                                                                                                 [37/2007]

 (6) The Minister, or any person authorised by the Minister, may
require the Honorary Treasurer or the Committee of Management to
furnish him with —

(a) all accounting and other records relating, directly or
     indirectly, to the financial transactions of the
     Corporation; and

(b) such other information in the possession of the Honorary
     Treasurer or the Committee of Management, or to which
     the Honorary Treasurer or the Committee of Management
     has access,

as he considers necessary for ascertaining whether subsections (1),
(3), (4) and (5) have been complied with, and the Honorary Treasurer
or Committee of Management, as the case may be, shall comply with
that requirement.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (7) The Minister may institute such proceedings as he considers
necessary for ensuring compliance with this section and section 20B.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (8) In this section —

“charitable purposes” has the same meaning as in section 2(1) of
   the Charities Act 1994;

“Minister” means the Minister charged with the responsibility
   for education;

“relevant asset” means any asset held or to be held for the
   purposes of investment;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

25  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

    “relevant bank account” means any bank account maintained
       and operated by the Corporation in the ordinary course of
       business for the purpose of depositing moneys received by
       the Corporation pending the utilisation of those moneys;

    “relevant deposit” means any deposit made or to be made, as an
       investment, with —

    (a) any bank licensed under the Banking Act 1970;

    (b) any finance company licensed under the Finance
         Companies Act 1967; or

    (c) any merchant bank licensed under the Banking
        Act 1970,

    but does not include any deposit in any relevant bank
    account.

                                                                                       [37/2007; 1/2020]

Subsidiaries of Corporation

 20B.—(1) The Corporation shall not act in any manner which is
prejudicial to the interests of the educational institutions referred to in
section 20A(1)(a) and (b) when exercising the voting rights attached
to its shares in any of its subsidiaries in relation to any significant
proposal affecting the subsidiary concerned.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (2) Where the Corporation contravenes subsection (1) in relation to
any significant proposal affecting any subsidiary of the Corporation,
any resolution passed in relation to the significant proposal at a
general meeting of the subsidiary, and anything done pursuant to any
such resolution, shall be invalid and of no effect.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (3) Notwithstanding section 157 of the Companies Act 1967, a
relevant director of any subsidiary of the Corporation shall not act in
any manner which is prejudicial to the interests of the educational
institutions referred to in section 20A(1)(a) and (b) when exercising
his voting rights as a director of the subsidiary in relation to any
significant proposal affecting the subsidiary.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           26

 (4) Where any relevant director of any subsidiary of the
Corporation contravenes subsection (3) in relation to any
significant proposal affecting the subsidiary, any resolution passed
in relation to the significant proposal by the board of directors of the
subsidiary, and anything done pursuant to any such resolution, shall
be invalid and of no effect.

                                                                                                           [37/2007]

 (5) A relevant director of any subsidiary of the Corporation does
not —

(a) commit any breach of any provision of section 157 of the
     Companies Act 1967; or

(b) breach any duty under any other written law or rule of law
     relating to the duty or liability of directors or officers of a
     company,

merely because he has complied with subsection (3).                [37/2007]
 (6) In this section —

“relevant director”, in relation to any subsidiary of the
   Corporation, means —

          (a) any director of the subsidiary who is appointed,
               nominated or proposed by the Corporation or the
               Committee of Management;

          (b) any director of the subsidiary who is a member of, or
               whose appointment as a director follows necessarily
               from his being a member of, the Committee of
               Management, regardless of whether he was
               appointed, nominated or proposed by the
               Corporation or the Committee of Management;

          (c) any director of the subsidiary who is accustomed or
              under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
              act in accordance with the directions, instructions or
              wishes of the Corporation or the Committee of
              Management, regardless of whether he was
              appointed, nominated or proposed by the
              Corporation or the Committee of Management;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Ngee Ann Kongsi

27  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

    (d) any director of the subsidiary appointed by the board
         of directors of the subsidiary who was nominated or
         proposed by any director of the subsidiary referred to
         in this paragraph or paragraph (a), (b) or (c); or

    (e) any alternate director of the subsidiary appointed by
        any director of the subsidiary referred to in
        paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d);

    “significant proposal”, in relation to any subsidiary of the
       Corporation, means —

    (a) a proposal to dispose of the whole or substantially the
         whole of the undertaking or property of the
         subsidiary;

    (b) a proposal to voluntarily wind up the subsidiary;

    (c) a proposal to add, delete or alter any provision of the
        memorandum or articles of association of the
        subsidiary; or

    (d) a proposal to appoint, remove or replace any director
         of the subsidiary.

                                                                                           [37/2007]

Rules

 21. The Committee of Management may make rules not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance —

       (a) to prescribe the conditions relating to eligibility for
            membership of the Corporation and the method of election;

       (b) to prescribe the conditions requisite to be complied with to
            entitle a student to support or assistance under section 6(e);

       (c) to regulate the election of officers of the Corporation;

       (d) to regulate the calling and conduct of meetings of the
            Committee of Management and their procedure in
            transacting business;

       (e) for the appointment of subcommittees to whom may be
            delegated powers to manage the Teochew Temple at

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
            Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.    (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           28

            Phillip Street and any other temple and any burial ground
            or other property of the Corporation;

          (f) to allocate duties to and to regulate the exercise of
              executive powers by the President, the officers, the
              Committee of Management, and subcommittees of the
              Corporation;

(g) to regulate the collection of subscriptions for the purposes
     of the Corporation;

(h) to regulate the keeping and presentation of accounts;

          (i) to regulate the appointment, conduct and dismissal of
              servants of the Corporation;

          (j) for any other purpose necessary or expedient,

and a copy certified under the hand of the President of the
Corporation of all such rules shall be published in the Gazette and
shall not be effective until the expiration of one month from the date
of such publication.

Saving of Government and other rights

 22. Nothing in this Ordinance shall affect the rights of the
Government or of any bodies politic or corporate or of any other
persons except such as are mentioned in this Ordinance and those
claiming by, through, from or under them.

                                                                                                                [7/97]

            FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                     Section 3(2)

    I, (a)  DECLARATION FOR MEMBERSHIP
of (b)
                                                               (a) Here insert
                                                               full name of
                                                               applicant.

                                                               (b) Here insert
                                                               full address of
                                                               applicant.

            Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

29              (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                   2020 Ed.

                FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

being a non-Christian and a member of the Teochew
Community of Singapore from the (c)

                                                                 (c) Here insert
                                                                 the name of
                                                                 District from
                                                                 which applicant
                                                                 originates.

who am (d)                                                       (d) Here insert
                                                                 occupation.

desire to be elected as a member of the Ngee Ann Kongsi and
to have my name inscribed on the Register of Members of the
said Ngee Ann Kongsi.

    And I agree that if I am elected to be such member as
aforesaid I will abide by the rules and regulations of the said
Ngee Ann Kongsi for the time being.

    Dated this           day of  .

                                 ........................
                                     (Signature of applicant)

                         SECOND SCHEDULE

Particulars of property          Estate and                            Section 19(1)
                                 interest held
                                                    In whom vested

    1. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple  Seah Lian Seah, Quek
                                                    Num Seng, Lim Chew
       ground situate in the District of            Kwang, Low Teng
                                                    Pheow, Chan Wai
       Amokiah in the Island of                     Chua, Goh Teck Chue,
                                                    Teo Wee Choi, Heng
       Singapore estimated according                Pang Kiat, Yeo Swee
                                                    Keong, Tan Seow
       to the Government Resurvey to                Kwang, Ng Yeow
       contain an area of 186,130.2 m2              Quee, Sim Lye Choon,
       and now known as Lot No. 91 of

       Town Subdivision XXIX, less
       an area of 175.6 m2 acquired

       and vested in the Crown for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.        (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                        30

                SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property            Estate and         In whom vested
                                   interest held

site of an electricity substation                     Seah Chin Moey and
vide L.O. 494/1928                                    Chua Sok Chew as
                                                      Trustees of the Ghee
                                                      Ann Kongsi.

2. A piece of land situate in the Leasehold for The same persons as
   District of Singapore Town in the residue of a those abovementioned.
   the Island of Singapore term of 99 years
   estimated according to the from 29 July
   Government Resurvey to 1865
   contain an area of 363.7 m2
   and known as Lot No. 11612 of
   Town Subdivision VII:
   Together with the 4 houses
   erected thereon and known as
   Nos. 197, 198, 199 and 200,
   New Bridge Road

3. A piece of land situate in the Leasehold for Seah Lian Seah, Quek

District of Singapore Town in the residue of a Num Seng, Goh Teck

the Island of Singapore term                      of Chue, Heng Pang Kiat,

estimated according to the 999 years from Yeo Swee Kwong, Ng

Government Resurvey to 15 January 1828 Yeow Quee, Sim Lye

contain an area of 58.9 m2 and                        Choon, Seah Chin

known as Lot No. 427 of Town                          Moey and Chua Sok

Subdivision IV: Together with                         Cheu.

the house erected thereon and

known as No. 30, Phillip Street

4. A piece of land the site of a Leasehold for The same persons as

temple situate in the District of the residue of a those in whom the

Singapore Town in the Island of term              of properties first and

Singapore estimated according 999 years from secondly

to the Government Resurvey to 1 October 1827 abovementioned are

contain an area of 170.0 m2 and                       vested.

known as Lot No. 4282 of Town

Subdivision IV

5. A piece of land situate in the Leasehold for                Do.

District of Singapore Town in the residue of a

the Island of Singapore term                      of

estimated according to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

31                  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                      2020 Ed.

                    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property              Estate and         In whom vested
                                     interest held

    Government Resurvey to 999 years from
    contain an area of 229.7 m2 12 April 1832
    and known as Lot No. 231 of
    Town Subdivision IV: Together
    with the 2 houses erected
    thereon and known as No. 32,
    Circular Road, and No. 48,
    South Boat Quay

    6. Two pieces of land situate in the Leasehold for  Do.

    District of Singapore Town in the residue of a

    the Island of Singapore term                    of

    estimated according to the 999 years from

    Government Resurvey to 25 January 1827

    contain respectively areas of
    241.4 m2 and 50.5 m2 and

    respectively known as
    Lots 4301 and 4302 now Lots
    4303,4 & 5 and Lot 4302 of Town

    Subdivision IV: Together with

    the house erected thereon and

    known as No. 33, Phillip Street
    (less an area of 123.9 m2 known
    as Lots 4302, 4303 and 4304

    acquired by the Municipality of

    Singapore on the 2 October

    1929)

    7. A piece of land the site of a Leasehold for      Do.

    temple situate adjoining Phillip the residue of a

    Street in the District of term                  of

    Singapore Town in the Island 999 years from

    of Singapore estimated 8 April 1909

    according to the Government (subject to

    Resurvey to contain an area of proviso that if
    1,233.1 m2 and known as Lot the land ceased
    No. 4281 of Town to be used for a

    Subdivision IV                   Chinese temple

                                     it should be

                                     lawful for the

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.   (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           32

           SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property            Estate and       In whom vested
                                   interest held

                                   Government to
                                   re-enter)

8. A piece of land the site of a Leasehold for      Do.

temple situate in the District of the residue of a

Singapore Town in the Island of term of 99 years

Singapore estimated according from 10 January

to the Government Resurvey to 1882
contain an area of 247.7 m2 and

known as Lot 357 of Town

Subdivision XIII

9. A piece of land the site of a Fee simple         Do.

temple situate in the District of

Rochore in the Island of

Singapore estimated according

to the Government Resurvey to
contain an area of 337.2 m2 and

known as Lot No. 14 of Town

Subdivision XVII

10. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple     Do.

ground situate in the District of

Ang Mo Kio in the Island of

Singapore containing by
admeasurement 23,623.5 m2

which with the dimensions,

boundaries and abuttals thereof

is delineated in the plan drawn

on Statutory Land Grant

No. 2305.

11. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple     Do.

ground situate in the District of

Amokiah in the Island of

Singapore estimated to contain
an area of 94,392.9 m2 whereof

the lines of boundary and their

bearings are laid down in the

plan endorsed on Government

Grant No. 40 now known as
Lot 512 pt. of Mukim XXIV

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

33            (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                     2020 Ed.

              SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property           Estate and     In whom vested
                                  interest held             Do.

12. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple             Do.
     ground situate in the District of
     Amokiah in the Island of                               Do.
     Singapore estimated to contain
     an area of 68,164.2 m2 whereof
     the lines of boundary and their
     bearings are laid down in the
     plan endorsed on Government
     Grant No. 14, now known as
     Lot 512 pt. of Mukim XXIV

13. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple
     ground situate at Pandan in the
     Island of Singapore containing
     by admeasurement 10,243.6 m2
     which with the dimensions
     boundaries and abuttals thereof
     is delineated in the plan drawn
     on Statutory Land Grant
     No. 13072 and is now known
     as Lot 1pt. Mukim V

14. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple
     ground situate in the District of
     Upper Tanglin in the Island of
     Singapore estimated to contain
     an area of 412,956.4 m2
     whereof the lines of boundary
     and their bearings are laid down
     in the plan endorsed on
     Government Grant No. 14
     dated 20 October 1860, less
     the following small areas
     acquired:

    (1) an area of 1,062.3 m2

    acquired             under

    Ordinance 6 of 1890, vide

    L.O. 731/1900;

    (2) 2 areas known as Lots 11
         and 13 of Mukim IV and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                          Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.      (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           34

              SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property             Estate and     In whom vested
                                    interest held

          containing respectively
          505.9 m2 and 5,058.6 m2

          acquired by the Crown

          in  1918        vide

          L.O. 381/1918;

(3) an area of 362.2 m2

     acquired for Admiralty

     pipeline and known as
     Lot 472 of Mukim IV;

(4) an area acquired by

          Government      vide

          L.O. 1230/30, which
          contains 204.9 m2 but

          consists partly of a

          portion of Grant 14 and

          partly of a portion of

          Grant 13072

The remainder of the land

comprised in Grant 14 vested

in the Ngee Ann Kongsi is now
known as Mukim IV Lots 12 471
473 and Mukim V Lot 1pt.

15. A piece of land used as a burial Fee simple    Seah Eu Chin and Choa
     ground situate in the District of
     Claymore (Orchard Road) in the                Poh Choo or their
     Island of Singapore containing
     an area of 292,537.1 m2 held                  representatives as
     under a Government Grant
     No. 36 issued by the East India               Trustees of the
     Company on 20 October 1845,
     less the following areas                      Chinese         Burial
     acquired:
                                                   Ground “Tie Swah”.

(1) An area of 895.0 m2

          known as Town

          Subdivision     XXI,

          Lot 1601 acquired by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

35                  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933           2020 Ed.

                SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property                Estate and     In whom vested
                                       interest held
                                                      Seah Peck Seah as
    Government see Misc.                              Trustee for the Ghee
    5829/1920;                                        Ann Kongsi.

    (2) An area of 1,049.2 m2                         Seah Liang Seah, Quek
                                                      Liang Choon, Goh
    known as Town                                     Teck Chue, Heng
                                                      Pang Kiat, Yeo Swee
    Subdivision XXI, Lot
    No. 1602 acquired by the

    Government           see

    C.S. 220/1920;

    (3) An area of 121.5 m2

    known as Town

    Subdivision          XXI,

    Lot 1603 pt. acquired by

    the Government vide

    709/30 Dem. 1382/30

    The remainder of the land

    comprised in Grant No. 36

    vested in the Ngee Ann Kongsi

    is now known as Town
    Subdivision XXI, Lot 1603 pt.
    1604 and 1605

16. Three pieces of land situate at Fee simple

    Orchard Road (General

    Nos. 7024, 7025 and 7026)

    held under Statutory Land

    Grants 419, 420 and 354 and

    containing           respectively

    215.5 m2, 215.5 m2 and

    205.9 m2; Together with the

    dwelling houses erected

    thereon and known as Nos. IA,

    IB and IC, Orchard Road, now

    known as Lot 98 of Town

    Subdivision XX

17. A piece of land situate at Fee simple

     Thompson Road, in the Island

     of Singapore containing an area
     of 799.3 m2 being part of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                             Ngee Ann Kongsi

2020 Ed.       (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                          36

               SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property                 Estate and     In whom vested
                                        interest held

land comprised in Government                           Kiong alias Yeo Swee
                                                       Kiong or Kwong Tan
Grant No. 5 and known as                               Siow Kwong, Ng
                                                       Yeow Quee, Sim Lye
Lot        97            of  Town                      Choon, Choa Quek
                                                       Chew, Seah Chin
Subdivision XXIX                                       Moey, Chan Kim
                                                       Seng, Teo Kiong Siew,
                                                       Lim Hak Khiam and
                                                       Low Chuan Sim alias
                                                       Low Koon Yee as
                                                       Trustees of the Ghee
                                                       Ann Society.

18. All those 2 pieces of land situate Fee simple      Sim Keng Hoe, Kway
     in the District of Buddoh in the                  Tye Hak and Heng
     Island of Singapore containing                    Kwan Chiap as joint
     respectively 3,541.0 m2 and                       tenants or their
     1,264.6 m2 and being part of                      representatives in
     the land held under Government                    interests.
     Grant No. 85 dated 19 July
     1861, now known as
     part Lot 113 of Mukim XXXI
     District Changi

19. A piece of vacant land Possessory title            The present trustees of
                                                       the Ngee Ann Kongsi.
containing               approximately

4,046 m2 situate at Kallang

Pudding in the Island of

Singapore near a Chinese

Temple known as Mah Kow

Yeo and known as

Mukim XXIV Lot 468

Indenture      109           and

part Indenture 140 (see

Deposit Plan 134)

20. All that piece of land (Survey Fee simple          Lim Nee Soon, Low
     No. 2531) situate in the District                 Peng Soy, Lee Wee
     of Upper Mandai in the Island                     Nam, Tan Lip Sek,
     of Singapore estimated                            Lim Woo Ngam, Yeo

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                         Ngee Ann Kongsi

37  (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933                           2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

Particulars of property              Estate and     In whom vested
                                     interest held
                                                    Choo Tian, Kwek
    according to Government                         Liang Choon, Liau
    Resurvey to contain an area of                  Chia Heng, Yeo Chan
    146,243.3 m2 and marked on the                  Boon, Tan Chew Char,
    Government Resurvey Map as                      Goh Teck Chng, Tan
    Lot 56 of Mukim XIV being the                   Miang Long, Sim Ka
    land comprised in Government                    Siew, Goh Yang Pheng,
    Grant No. 5 dated 12 June 1858,                 Kwek Soo Kow, Low
    and made in favour of Lye                       Chia Heng, Lim Soo
    Hoah. Less an area of                           Siam, Chew Swee
    1,568.2 m2 acquired by                          Lin, Nah Wee Liat,
    Government for widening of                      Kwek Teng Thong,
    Bukit Timah Road, vide                          Low Peng Soo, Lee
    L.O. 457/29 and L.O. Misc.                      Kim Soo, Lim Chong
    1463/30                                         Pang, Seah Eng Tong.

21. A piece of land situate at Fee simple           Lim Nee Soon, Low
     Thompson Road in the District                  Peng Soy, Lee Wee
     of Toah Pyoh Singapore                         Nam, as trustees for
     estimated according to                         the Ngee Ann Kongsi.
     Government Resurvey to
     contain an area of 2,820.2 m2
     and marked on the Government
     Resurvey Map as Lot 98 of
     Town Subdivision XXIX being
     part of Grant No. 5

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                  NGEE ANN KONGSI
      (INCORPORATION) ORDINANCE 1933

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 5 of 1933 — Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation) Ordinance,
                                   1933

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1800/1932

First Reading         : 19 October 1932

Second Reading        : 5 December 1932

Notice of Amendments  : 16 January 1933

Third Reading         : 16 January 1933

Commencement          : 25 February 1933 (assent)
                            10 March 1933 (publication)

2. 1936 Revised Edition — Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation) Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 258)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

3. Ordinance 41 of 1936 — Statute Law (Revised Edition) Amendment
                                    Ordinance, 1936

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with paragraph XVI of the Schedule to
   the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3285/1936

First and Second Readings : 7 December 1936

Notice of Amendments  : 7 December 1936

Third Reading         : 7 December 1936

Commencement          : 30 December 1936 (section 2 read
                            with paragraph XVI of the Schedule)

4. 1955 Revised Edition — Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation) Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 307)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               ii

5. Ordinance 62 of 1959 — State Advocate-General (Transfer of Powers)
                                    Ordinance, 1959

   (Amendments made by section 5 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill           : 22/1959

First Reading  : 13 August 1959

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 1959

Commencement   : 11 September 1959 (section 5 read
                     with the Schedule)

6. Act 20 of 1972 — Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation) (Amendment) Act,
                           1972

Bill           : 5/1972

First Reading  : 7 March 1972

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 1972

Commencement   : 12 May 1972

7. Act 4 of 1982 — Ngee Ann Technical College (Amendment) Act, 1982
   (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill           : 28/1981

First Reading  : 22 December 1981

Second and Third Readings : 3 March 1982

Commencement   : 16 April 1982 (section 4)

8. G.N. No. S 218/1985 — Metrication (Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation)
                                   Ordinance) Order 1985

Commencement   : 23 August 1985

9. 1985 Revised Edition — Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation) Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 370)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

10. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 6 read with item (26) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 6/1997

First Reading  : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                      iii

Commencement          : 1 October 1997 (section 6 read with
                            item (26) of the First Schedule)

11. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (40) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 30/2005

First Reading         : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement          : 1 January 2006 (section 5 read with
                            item (40) of the First Schedule)

12. Act 37 of 2007 — Ngee Ann Kongsi (Incorporation) (Amendment) Act
                             2007

Bill                  : 25/2007

First Reading         : 21 May 2007

Second and Third Readings : 17 July 2007

Commencement          : 1 September 2007

13. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 105 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 105 of the Schedule)

14. Act 1 of 2020 — Banking (Amendment) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 59 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2019

First Reading         : 4 November 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 January 2020

Commencement          : 1 July 2021 (section 59)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                     iv

15. 2020 Revised Edition — Ngee Ann Kongsi
                                     (Incorporation) Ordinance 1933

       Operation                     : 31 December 2021

16. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 169 of the above Act)

       Bill                          : 18/2021

       First Reading                 : 26 July 2021

       Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

       Commencement                  : 1 April 2022

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          COMPARATIVE TABLE

            NGEE ANN KONGSI
(INCORPORATION) ORDINANCE 1933

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.           1985 Ed.
7—(9) and (10)
                           7—(9)
   (11)                       (10)
   (12)                       (11)
   (13)                       (12)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
