THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  CIVIL DEFENCE ACT 1986

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                                                              2020 Ed.

Civil Defence Act 1986

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                           PART 2

CONSTITUTION, ORGANISATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF FORCE

    3. Raising and maintenance of Singapore Civil Defence Force
    4. Functions of Force
    5. Organisation
    6. Administration of Force by Commissioner

                                        PART 3

     ENLISTMENT AND DISCHARGE OF MEMBERS OF FORCE

 7. Appointment of officers and enlistment of servicemen in Force
 8. Public officers serving as members of Force
 9. Enlistment of national servicemen in Force
 9A. Volunteer ex-NSmen
 9B. Appointments and promotions
10. Discharge of national servicemen from Force
10A. Discharge of volunteer ex-NSmen
11. Discharge of auxiliary members
12. Identity card
13. Delivery of Government property on leaving Force

                                        PART 4
                       JURISDICTION AND LIABILITY
                    Division 1 — Persons subject to this Act
14. Application

                        1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                     2

Section
   15. Modification of Act
   16. Certain persons to remain subject to Act

Division 2 — Liability of persons subject to this Act to be tried and punished for
                                       service offences

17. Trial and punishment of person committing service offence
18. Trial and punishment of service offences under Act despite

         offender ceasing to be subject to Act
19. Limitation of time for trial of offences under Act
20. Jurisdiction of courts
21. Persons not to be tried under Act for offences already disposed

         of
22. Application of principles of Penal Code 1871

          PART 5

          SERVICE OFFENCES

23.       Looting
24.       Desertion
25.       Connivance at desertion
26.       Assault on guard
27.       Offence by or in relation to person on guard or on watch
28.       Violence to superior
29.       Assault on subordinate
30.       Cruel, indecent or disgraceful conduct
31.       Obstruction of provost officer
32.       Insubordinate behaviour
32A.      Refusing medical or dental examination or treatment
33.       Disobedience to command
34.       Failure to comply with direction of person‑in‑command
35.       Failure to comply with order
36.       Abuse of authority
37.       Destruction of, or damage to, service property
37A.      Causing irrecoverable loss of service property
38.       Dishonest misappropriation of service property
39.       Misapplication and waste of service property
40.       False statement in application
41.       Falsification, etc., of service documents
42.       False statement in relation to appointment or enlistment
43.       False evidence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
3        Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Section  Delay or denial of justice
         Resistance to arrest
   44.   Escape from custody
   45.   Unlawful release, etc., of person in custody
   46.   Absence without leave
   47.   Malingering
   48.   Drunkeness on duty, etc.
   49.   Assaults, insulting words, etc.
   50.   Negligent performance of duty
   51.   Contempt
   52.   Attempts to commit service offence
   53.   Aiding, etc., commission of service offence
   54.   Conduct to the prejudice of Force discipline
   55.
   56.

                                           PART 6

                        ARREST, CUSTODY AND SEARCH

   57. Arrest without warrant
   58. Arrest under warrant
   59. Reasonable force to effect arrest
   60. Arrested person to be informed of alleged offence
   61. Detention in civil custody of arrested person
   62. Person in custody to be dealt with in accordance with Act
   63. Avoidance of delay after arrest
   64. Conditional release
   65. Making of physical examination
   66. Search of place where person sought to be arrested has entered
   67. Search of person in custody
   68. Search by person of same sex, etc.
   69. Disposal of property taken on search

                                           PART 7

         TRIAL AND PUNISHMENT BY DISCIPLINARY OFFICERS

   70. Manner of dealing with charges
   71. Manner of dealing with charge against members who are public

            officers
   72. Jurisdiction of disciplinary officers
   73. Trial of former members
   74. Dismissal of charge

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    4

Section   Punishments
   75.    Power of Disciplinary Board to deal with charges against
   76.    lieutenant-colonel, etc.
          Appeal against award or finding
   76A.   Reduction after conviction
   76B.   Commencement of sentence of detention
   77.    Sentence of detention
   78.    Suspension of sentence
   79.    Provisions as to persons unlawfully at large
   80.    Review of findings and awards
   81.    [Repealed]
   82.    Inapplicability of law of evidence
   83.    Detention in default of payment of fine
   84.    Rules of Procedure
   85.    Composition of service offences
   85A.

                                        PART 8
                         POWERS OF INVESTIGATION

86. Provost officer may investigate service offences
87. Powers of investigation of provost officer

                                        PART 9

                  DEDUCTIONS FROM PAY OF MEMBER

88. Authorised deductions only to be made from pay
89. Deductions from ordinary pay of member
90. Supplemental provisions as to deductions from ordinary pay
91. Write-off of public property

                                       PART 10

                               BOARD OF INQUIRY

92. Board of inquiry
93. Composition
94. Powers
95. Summoning and privilege of witnesses at board of inquiry and

         misconduct of civilian thereat
96. Evidence and procedure
97. Admissibility of evidence
98. Sittings not open to public

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
5         Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Section
   99. Person who may be affected by finding
  100. Record of proceedings

                                            PART 11
                            CIVIL DEFENCE FORCE FUND
   101. Civil Defence Force Fund

                                           PART 11A

                               DAY‑TO‑DAY OPERATIONS

   101A. Powers for day‑to‑day operations
   101B. Persons assisting Force
   101C. Protection from personal liability

                                            PART 12
                     STATE OF CIVIL DEFENCE EMERGENCY

   102. Declaration of state of civil defence emergency
   103. Special powers during emergency

          PART 12A

          PUBLIC WARNING SYSTEM

   103A.  Interpretation of this Part
   103B.  Provision of space to install prescribed civil defence emergency
          devices
   103C.  Power to enter premises for assessment, repair and maintenance
   103D.  Damage, etc., to prescribed civil defence emergency devices

                                            PART 13
         TRAINING OF CIVILIAN POPULATION IN CIVIL DEFENCE

   104. Civil defence training for civilian population
   105. Protection of civil defence volunteers

                                           PART 13A
                            SERVICE OUTSIDE SINGAPORE

   105AA. Definitions for Part 13A
   105A. Minister may send members of Force outside Singapore

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                          6

Section   Members of Force serving outside Singapore to remain subject
  105B.   to this Act
          Jurisdiction during overseas service
  105C.   Offences and misconduct during overseas service
  105D.   Extent of powers for incident management operations for cross-
  105E.   border incidents

          PART 14

          GENERAL

106.      Persons exercising power, etc., not to be obstructed
106A.     Wearing and possession of uniforms, etc., by others
107.      Offences by body corporate
108.      Protection of employment rights
109.      Members deemed to be public servants
110.      Civil Defence General Orders and Standing Orders
111.      Compensation for personal injury
112.      Protection from liability
113.      Mobilisation of ex-NSmen or auxiliary members
114.      Section 14 of Government Proceedings Act 1956 applies to
          Force
115.      Regulations

An Act to provide for the raising, maintenance and discipline of a
  civil defence force and for the exercise of the functions and powers
  of the Force during national emergencies, and for purposes
  connected therewith.

                                                         [14 November 1986]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Civil Defence Act 1986.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
7               Civil Defence Act 1986                       2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “auxiliary member” means any person who has been recruited to
      serve as a member of the Force on a part-time basis;

   “civil defence” means the planning, organisation, coordination
      and implementation of measures, other than measures
      amounting to an actual combat, that are necessary or
      desirable for the safety of the public and are designed to
      guard against, prevent, reduce, or overcome the effects or
      possible effects of a national emergency or a civil defence
      emergency, and includes the conducting of, and participation
      in, drills, exercises and training for such purposes;

   “civil defence emergency” means any fire, explosion,
      earthquake, oil spill, eruption, flood, storm, hazardous
      materials incident or other happening (whether or not
      attributable to an attack by an enemy or to any warlike act)
      that causes or may cause destruction of or damage to property
      or loss of life or injury or distress to persons or that in any
      way endangers the safety of the public in Singapore or in any
      part thereof;

   “commanding officer” means —

   (a) an officer who is in command of a unit; or

   (b) an officer on whom the powers and functions of a
        commanding officer are conferred by or under the
        regulations;

   “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Civil Defence
      appointed under section 6;

   “detention barracks” means any building or part of a building
      which is set apart by the Commissioner for those members
      who are serving sentences of detention;

   “disciplinary officer” means a junior disciplinary officer or a
      senior disciplinary officer designated as such under Part 7;

   “emergency services” means any organisation or group of
      persons providing services to respond to and deal with civil

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    8

          defence emergencies, and includes firefighting services,
          ambulance services and the police;

“ex-NSman” means a former operationally ready national
   serviceman;

“Force” means the Singapore Civil Defence Force raised and
   maintained in accordance with the provisions of this Act;

“full-time service” has the meaning given by the Enlistment
   Act 1970;

“Fund” means the Civil Defence Force Fund established under
   section 101;

“hazardous material” means any substance or article set out in
   the Third Schedule to the Road Traffic (Expressway Traffic)
   Rules;

“hazardous materials incident” means an actual or suspected
   spillage or other escape of any hazardous material the
   spillage or escape of which causes or may cause destruction
   of or damage to property or loss of life or injury or distress to
   persons or that in any way endangers the safety of the public
   in Singapore or in any part thereof;

“junior disciplinary officer”, in relation to a person charged with
   an offence, means an officer commanding a company or
   equivalent sub‑unit or any other officer designated as a junior
   disciplinary officer by the Commissioner to deal with charges
   made against a member for the commission of a service
   offence;

“medical practitioner” includes a medical officer in the service
   of the Government;

“member” means an officer or a serviceman of the Force, and
   includes a volunteer ex‑NSman or an auxiliary member;

“national service” and “national serviceman” have the meanings
   given by the Enlistment Act 1970;

“non-commissioned officer” means a member holding a rank
   not higher than the rank of senior warrant officer and not
   lower than the rank of lance‑corporal;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
9  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

   “offence” means an offence punishable under any written law or
      a service offence;

   “officer” means an officer of the rank of second lieutenant and
      above;

   “operationally ready national service” has the meaning given by
      the Enlistment Act 1970;

   “operationally ready national serviceman” means a person liable
      to render operationally ready national service under the
      Enlistment Act 1970;

   “person of a higher rank”, in relation to a member, includes any
      other member who, by virtue of his or her office or
      appointment, is entitled to exercise command over the
      firstmentioned member;

   “police officer” means any member of the Singapore Police
      Force;

   “prescribed civil defence emergency device” means —

   (a) a public warning device; or

   (b) such device for the detection or monitoring of a civil
        defence emergency as may be prescribed,

   and includes a prescribed civil defence emergency device
   installed by the Commissioner, with the agreement of the
   owner of the premises, before 1 February 2019;

   “proper authority” has the meaning given by the Enlistment
      Act 1970;

   “provost officer” means any member of the Force appointed by
      the Commissioner as a provost officer for the purposes of this
      Act;

   “psychoactive substance” means —

   (a) a psychoactive substance within the meaning given
        by section 2 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    10

          (b) a specified psychoactive substance within the
               meaning given by section 2(1) of the Tobacco and
               Vaporisers Control Act 1993;

                                                                        [Act 9 of 2026 wef 01/05/2026]

“public officer” has the meaning given by the Constitution;

“public authority” includes a body corporate constituted under
   any written law to perform certain functions or vested with
   certain powers;

“regulations” means the regulations made under this Act;

“senior disciplinary officer”, in relation to a person charged with
   an offence, means an officer commanding a division,
   battalion, training school or its equivalent or any other
   officer designated as a senior disciplinary officer by the
   Commissioner to deal with charges made against a member
   for the commission of a service offence;

“serviceman” means a member of the Force holding a rank not
   higher than the rank of senior warrant officer and includes a
   recruit in the Force;

“service land” means land (including a building or other
   structure or part thereof) in the possession of or under the
   control of —

          (a) the Force; or

          (b) a mess, club, common room, canteen or other
               institution of the Force;

“service offence” means an offence punishable under any of the
   provisions of Part 5;

“service property” means property used by, or in the possession
   or control of —

          (a) the Force; or

          (b) a mess, club, common room, canteen or other
               institution of the Force,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
11  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    and “service equipment”, “service facilities”, “service ship”,
    “service aircraft” and “service vehicle” have corresponding
    meanings;

    “state of civil defence emergency” means a state of civil defence
       emergency declared under section 102;

    “state of emergency” means the period when a Proclamation of
       Emergency issued by the President under Article 150 of the
       Constitution is in force;

    “volunteer ex‑NSman” means an ex‑NSman enrolled as a
       volunteer ex‑NSman under section 9A.

                            [32/2010; 53/2018]

                                    PART 2

 CONSTITUTION, ORGANISATION AND ADMINISTRATION
                                  OF FORCE

Raising and maintenance of Singapore Civil Defence Force

 3. There is raised and maintained in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, a civil defence force called the Singapore Civil Defence
Force, which consists of such number of officers and servicemen as
are from time to time approved by the Minister.

Functions of Force

 4.—(1) The functions of the Force are —

       (a) to carry out civil defence duties;

       (b) to instruct the members of the public regarding civil
            defence and, if necessary, to equip them for the purposes of
            such defence; and

       (c) to carry out, on a day‑to‑day basis, operations for the
            protection of the life, health or safety of individuals,
            whether or not arising out of a civil defence emergency.

                                                                                                [32/2010; 53/2018]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Force may exercise and
perform all the following functions and duties:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    12

(a) rescue endangered persons and remove them to areas of
     safety;

(b) provide first-aid to casualties and for their removal for
     medical treatment or to areas of safety;

          (c) train and, if necessary, equip the civilian population to cope
              with any civil defence emergency;

(d) assist the public authorities to undertake measures for the
     retrieval and, if necessary, decontamination of the dead
     bodies from any place affected by any civil defence
     emergency;

          (e) disseminate information and advice to the public;

          (f) take lawful measures to extinguish and prevent the spread
              of fire;

(g) provide, maintain, control and operate prescribed civil
     defence emergency devices;

(h) manage all public shelters including air-raid shelters and
     temporary shelters;

          (i) take lawful measures for protecting life and property in
              case of fire;

          (j) take lawful measures to mitigate the consequences of
              hazardous materials incidents and for protecting life and
              property in such an event;

          (k) provide and maintain an adequate emergency ambulance
              service;

          (l) ensure effective coordination between the Force and other
              emergency services in Singapore; and

(m) execute such other duties as may be imposed on the Force
     by this Act or any other written law.

                                                                                      [32/2010; 53/2018]

Organisation

 5.—(1) The Force consists of such units, corps or divisions as are
from time to time organised by or under the authority of the Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
13  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister may disband any unit, corps or division
constituted under subsection (1) in whole or in part or amalgamate
any unit, corps or division with any other unit, corps or division.

(3) The Force consists of —

    (a) officers appointed to, and servicemen enlisted in, the
         Force;

    (b) national servicemen enlisted in the Force;

    (c) volunteer ex‑NSmen enrolled under section 9A;

    (d) persons who are recruited to serve as auxiliary members;
         and

    (e) public officers who are serving in the Force.

                                                                                         [32/2010; 53/2018]

Administration of Force by Commissioner

 6.—(1) The Minister may appoint a Commissioner of Civil
Defence who must —

       (a) be responsible for the supreme command, direction and
            administration of the Force and of members of the Force
            who are appointed, enlisted or recruited under the
            provisions of this Act; and

       (b) exercise such functions, and perform such duties and
            powers with respect to civil defence as are conferred upon
            him or her by this Act.

 (2) The Minister may appoint any number of Deputy
Commissioners, Senior Assistant Commissioners and Assistant
Commissioners of Civil Defence as the Minister thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (3) Unless otherwise provided, the Deputy Commissioners, the
Senior Assistant Commissioners and the Assistant Commissioners of
Civil Defence have and may exercise all the powers conferred on the
Commissioner by or under this Act, subject to such limitations as the
Commissioner may see fit to impose.

                                                                                                [32/2010; 53/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    14

          PART 3

ENLISTMENT AND DISCHARGE OF MEMBERS OF FORCE

Appointment of officers and enlistment of servicemen in Force

 7.—(1) The Minister may appoint and enlist any number of officers
and servicemen for the Force as the Minister thinks fit.

 (2) The Commissioner may, in accordance with such conditions
and subject to such qualifications or requirements as are prescribed or
provided for by the regulations, recruit persons to serve in the
auxiliary units of the Force on a part‑time basis.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) Auxiliary members are not bound to serve continuously but are
bound to render service for such periods as are prescribed by the
regulations.

 (4) The Minister may, from time to time, authorise such allowances
to be paid to auxiliary members for their services.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) The Commissioner may at any time dismiss an auxiliary
member from the Force without assigning any reason.

Public officers serving as members of Force

 8.—(1) The Public Service Commission continues to have control
over the confirmation, emplacement on the permanent or pensionable
establishment, promotion, transfer, dismissal and exercise of
disciplinary control over public officers who are posted to serve in
the Force.

 (2) A public officer who is posted to the Force as an officer or a
serviceman may resign from the Force by giving the notice of
termination of service prescribed by the terms and conditions of his or
her appointment as a public officer.

Enlistment of national servicemen in Force

 9.—(1) A person on whom a notice under section 10 of the
Enlistment Act 1970 has been served requiring the person to report
for enlistment in the Force is, as from the time when the person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
15                  Civil Defence Act 1986                    2020 Ed.

reports for enlistment for national service, deemed to have been
enlisted in the Force.

 (2) A person enlisted for national service pursuant to the provisions
of the Enlistment Act 1970 is, from such time as the proper authority
transfers the person to the service of the Force, deemed to have been
enlisted in the Force.

 (3) National servicemen who are enlisted in the Force must
render —

    (a) full-time service for the period prescribed by the
         Enlistment Act 1970; and

    (b) where they have completed full-time service for the
         prescribed period, operationally ready national service
         for the period prescribed by the Enlistment Act 1970.

Volunteer ex-NSmen

 9A.—(1) The Commissioner may enrol under this section, as a
volunteer ex‑NSman, any ex‑NSman who was enlisted as a national
serviceman in the Force where —

    (a) the Commissioner wants that ex‑NSman to continue to
         serve in the Force; and

    (b) the ex‑NSman is offering his service.

                                                              [53/2018]

 (2) The provisions of sections 14, 15, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 30 of
the Enlistment Act 1970 affecting any person who is liable for
operationally ready national service apply (so far as relevant) to a
volunteer ex‑NSman enrolled under this section as if the volunteer
ex‑NSman were an individual liable for operationally ready national
service, with such prescribed exceptions, modifications and
adaptations as the differences between an operationally ready
national serviceman and a volunteer ex‑NSman require.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) The provisions of any other existing law that relate to an
individual liable for operationally ready national service have effect
as if any reference therein to any such individual also includes a
reference to any volunteer ex‑NSman, with such prescribed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    16

exceptions, modifications and adaptations as the differences between
this Part and that existing law require.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) The Minister may, from time to time, authorise such
emoluments to be paid to volunteer ex‑NSmen for their services.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) In this section, “existing law” means any written law having
effect as part of the law of Singapore immediately before 1 February
2019.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Appointments and promotions

 9B.—(1) Subject to section 8, the Minister may do the following:

       (a) appoint or promote a member to the rank of
            lieutenant‑colonel and above;

       (b) reduce the rank of a member of the rank of
            lieutenant‑colonel and above.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) Subject to section 8, the Commissioner may do the following:

       (a) appoint or promote a member to the rank of major and
            below;

       (b) reduce the rank of a member of the rank of major and
            below.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) The Commissioner may delegate the power under
subsection (2) to any officer of the rank of lieutenant‑colonel and
above.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Discharge of national servicemen from Force

 10. A member who is enlisted in the Force pursuant to the
Enlistment Act 1970 is discharged —

       (a) from continuous full-time service in the Force when the
            member has completed the period of full‑time service
            prescribed by the Enlistment Act 1970; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
17  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (b) from operationally ready national service in the Force
         when —

    (i) the proper authority notifies the member that the
        member has been transferred from the Force to
        another force specified by the proper authority;

    (ii) the proper authority notifies the member that the
         member is released from the Force; or

    (iii) the member ceases to be a person subject to the
          Enlistment Act 1970.

Discharge of volunteer ex-NSmen

 10A.—(1) The Commissioner may, without notice, discharge any
volunteer ex‑NSman.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) Any volunteer ex‑NSman is entitled, except when a state of
emergency or a state of civil defence emergency is in force or when
volunteer ex‑NSmen are mobilised under section 113(1)(a), to be
discharged from the Force after giving the Commissioner at least
3 months’ notice in writing of the volunteer ex‑NSman’s intention to
resign from the Force.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Discharge of auxiliary members

 11. Except when a state of emergency or a state of civil defence
emergency is in force or when auxiliary members are mobilised for
continuous full-time service, an auxiliary member is entitled to be
discharged from the Force after giving the Commissioner at least
30 days’ notice in writing of the auxiliary member’s intention to
resign from the Force.

Identity card

 12. An identity card must be issued to every full‑time national
serviceman and is evidence of the national serviceman’s enlistment in
the Force under this Act.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    18

Delivery of Government property on leaving Force

 13.—(1) Every member who, by resignation, dismissal, discharge
or otherwise, leaves the Force must before leaving deliver up in good
order (fair wear and tear excepted) any accoutrement, uniform or
other article supplied to him or her and any other property belonging
to the Government which may be in his or her possession.

 (2) Any person neglecting to deliver up any such article or property
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months, and in addition thereto shall be liable to pay the value of the
article or property not delivered up, which value is to be ascertained
in a summary manner by the same court before which the person was
convicted.

                                    PART 4

                   JURISDICTION AND LIABILITY

                Division 1 — Persons subject to this Act

Application

 14.—(1) The following members are persons subject to this Act at
all times:

       (a) national servicemen enlisted in the Force who are
            rendering continuous full-time service either as officers
            or servicemen;

       (b) officers and servicemen who are appointed to or enlisted in
            the Force under section 7(1).

 (2) National servicemen enlisted in the Force as either officers or
servicemen who are rendering operationally ready national service
and volunteer ex‑NSmen are subject to this Act while on duty, in
uniform or while under arrest, in custody or undergoing punishment
or detention in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) Auxiliary members are subject to this Act while on duty, in
uniform or while under arrest, in custody or undergoing punishment
or detention in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
19  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), a member is deemed to be on
duty —

    (a) from the time appointed by the Commissioner for the
         member to report to or to attend at a place specified by the
         Commissioner for rendering any operationally ready
         national service which the member is required to render
         under the Enlistment Act 1970 until the member is duly
         released or discharged from that service; or

    (b) while acting or purporting to act in or with intended
         reference to his or her capacity as a member of the Force.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3), an auxiliary member is
deemed to be on duty while acting or purporting to act in or with
intended reference to his or her capacity as a member of the Force.

Modification of Act

 15. The regulations may make provision for —

       (a) the exemption of all or any of the classes of members from
            all or any of the provisions of this Act;

       (b) the modification of any provision so far as it relates to all or
            any of those classes; or

       (c) the addition or substitution of provisions relating to all or
            any of those classes.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

Certain persons to remain subject to Act

 16. Subject to section 73, a person who has ceased to be a member
may, in respect of a service offence committed within 6 months
before he or she ceased to be a member, be dealt with as though he or
she were still a member, if and only if he or she is charged with the
offence not later than 3 years from the date of the commission of the
offence.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    20

Division 2 — Liability of persons subject to this Act to be tried and
                       punished for service offences

Trial and punishment of person committing service offence

 17.—(1) Any person subject to this Act who is alleged to have
committed a service offence may be charged, dealt with and tried by a
court or may be dealt with by a disciplinary officer under the
provisions of this Act and shall, if found guilty of the service offence
by a court or by a disciplinary officer, be liable to be punished or dealt
with in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Where a charge against a person for a service offence is dealt
with by a disciplinary officer, a reference in any provision of this Act
to a conviction is to be construed as a reference to a finding of guilt
made by a disciplinary officer.

Trial and punishment of service offences under Act despite
offender ceasing to be subject to Act

 18.—(1) Subject to section 19, where a service offence under this
Act has been committed, or is reasonably suspected of having been
committed, by any person while subject to this Act, then in relation to
that service offence the person is to be treated, for the purposes of this
Act relating to arrest, keeping in custody, investigation of charges,
trial and punishment by a disciplinary officer including review and
execution of sentences, as continuing to be subject to this Act despite
the person’s ceasing at any time to be subject thereto.

 (2) Subject to section 19, where a service offence under this Act has
been committed, or is reasonably suspected of having been
committed, by any person while subject to this Act, then the
disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board before whom the offence is
triable may, under the authority of the Commissioner, order that
person to report for trial for the offence as if that person continued to
be subject to this Act despite the person ceasing at any time to be
subject to this Act.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any order under
subsection (2) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
21  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) is deemed to have failed to comply with a lawful order
         within the meaning of section 35(1); and

       (b) is liable to be arrested, proceeded against and punished for
            an offence under section 35(1) as if the person continued to
            be subject to this Act.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) Where, while a person is in service custody by virtue of this
section (whether before, during or after trial) the person commits, or
is reasonably suspected of having committed, an offence which if the
person were subject to this Act would be a service offence, then in
relation to that offence or suspected offence the person is to be
treated, for the purposes of this Act mentioned in subsection (1) and
the provisions thereof as to the dealing with charges by a disciplinary
officer, as having been subject to this Act when the offence was
committed or is suspected of having been committed and as
continuing to be subject to this Act thereafter.

 (5) Where under subsection (1) or (4) a person is treated as being at
any time subject to this Act for the purpose of any provision of this
Act, that provision is to apply to the person —

    (a) if the person holds any service rank, as to a person having
         that rank; and

    (b) in any other case, as to a person having the rank which the
         person had when last actually subject to this Act.

 (6) Where apart from this subsection any provision of this Act
would under subsection (5) apply to a person, in relation to different
service offences, as to a person having different ranks, the provision
is to apply to the person as to a person having the lower or lowest of
those ranks.

Limitation of time for trial of offences under Act

 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person is not liable to be tried
by a disciplinary officer for a service offence unless the trial begins
within 3 years after the later of the following dates:

       (a) the date on which the service offence was alleged to have
            been committed;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    22

       (b) the date on which information relating to the commission
            of that offence was first reported to or discovered by an
            investigating officer for that service offence.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) Every person who is subject to this Act at the time of the alleged
commission by the person of a service offence of desertion or absence
without leave continues to be liable to be charged, dealt with and tried
at any time under this Act.

 (3) In calculating the period of limitation referred to in
subsection (1), there is not to be included —

(a) any time during which a person was serving sentence in a
     prison;

(b) any period of absence caused by a person’s detention in a
     drug rehabilitation centre or at any other place pursuant to
     the provisions of any other written law; and

          (c) any period of absence in respect of which a person has been
              found guilty by a disciplinary officer of desertion or
              absence without leave.

 (4) This section does not affect the jurisdiction of a court to try any
person for any service offence committed by the person.

Jurisdiction of courts

 20.—(1) This Act does not affect the jurisdiction of any court to try
a person for any offence under any other written law triable by the
court where the act or omission of that person also constitutes a
service offence.

 (2) Where a person subject to this Act has been charged with a
service offence and has had the charge dealt with by a disciplinary
officer, a court is debarred from trying the person subsequently for an
offence substantially the same as that offence.

 (3) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act is to be construed as
restricting the jurisdiction of any court to try a person subject to this
Act for an offence.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a case is deemed to have been
dealt with by a disciplinary officer notwithstanding that the finding of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
23  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

that officer has been quashed, or the award of that officer quashed or
varied, on the review thereof.

 (5) A person subject to this Act must not be tried by a court for any
service offence unless the Public Prosecutor has given his or her
consent for the trial.

Persons not to be tried under Act for offences already disposed
of

 21. Where a person subject to this Act has been tried for a service
offence by a court or has had a service offence committed by the
person taken into consideration by the court in sentencing him or her,
the person shall not be liable in respect of that offence to be dealt with
and punished by a disciplinary officer pursuant to this Act.

Application of principles of Penal Code 1871

 22. The principles of the Penal Code 1871 with respect to criminal
liability apply in relation to service offences under this Act.

                                    PART 5

                           SERVICE OFFENCES

Looting

 23. Any person who —

       (a) steals from, or, with intent to steal, searches the person of
            anyone killed or injured in a civil defence emergency;

       (b) steals any property which has been left exposed or
            unprotected in consequence of a civil defence emergency;

       (c) takes, otherwise than for the purposes of the Force, any
            property abandoned or left exposed in consequence of a
            civil defence emergency,

shall be guilty of the offence of looting and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years or any
other punishment authorised by this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.   Civil Defence Act 1986                                   24

Desertion

 24. Any person who being on duty, or having been notified to report
for duty, with intent to remain permanently absent without leave,
leaves or does not attend at, the person’s place of duty without leave,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Connivance at desertion

 25. Any person who —

       (a) being aware of the desertion or intended desertion of a
            member, does not without reasonable excuse inform the
            person’s superior officer immediately; or

       (b) fails to take any steps in the person’s power to cause the
            apprehension of a member whom the person knows, or has
            reasonable cause to believe, to be a deserter,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Assault on guard

 26.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) commits an assault on a member who is on guard duty; or

       (b) by threat or force compels that member to let him or her or
            any other person pass a member’s post,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

 (2) In this section, any reference to a person on guard duty includes
a reference to a person who is —

       (a) posted or ordered to patrol; or

       (b) a member of a guard or other party mounted or ordered to
            patrol,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
25                    Civil Defence Act 1986                  2020 Ed.

for the purpose of —

    (c) protecting any person, premises or place or ship, vehicle,
        aircraft or other thing;

    (d) preventing or controlling access to, or egress from any
         premises or place or ship, vehicle, aircraft or other thing; or

    (e) regulating traffic by road, rail or water.

Offence by or in relation to person on guard or on watch

 27.—(1) Any person who, while on guard duty or on watch —

       (a) sleeps at his or her post or on watch;

       (b) not being on duty at a post, sleeps when his or her duty
            requires him or her to be awake;

       (c) is drunk; or

       (d) leaves his or her post or otherwise absents himself or
            herself from a place where it is his or her duty to be,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

 (2) In this section, “a person on guard duty” has the meaning given
by section 26.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, a person is deemed to be drunk
if, and only if, the person’s faculties are, by reason of being under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, a drug or a psychoactive substance,
so impaired that —

       (a) it would be imprudent to trust the person, or to allow the
            person to continue, with the discharge of the person’s
            duties; or

       (b) the person is unfit for the discharge of the person’s duties.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

Violence to superior

 28. Any person who commits an assault on a person of a higher rank
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    26

imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Assault on subordinate

 29. Any person who commits an assault on, or ill‑treats, a person of
a lower rank shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any
other punishment authorised by this Act.

Cruel, indecent or disgraceful conduct

 30. Any person who behaves in a cruel, indecent or disgraceful
manner or in a manner unbecoming of a member of the Force shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised
by this Act.

Obstruction of provost officer

 31. Any person who —

       (a) obstructs; or

       (b) when called upon refuses to assist,

a provost officer, or a person lawfully exercising authority under or
on behalf of a provost officer, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Insubordinate behaviour

 32. Any person who —

       (a) uses threatening, insubordinate or insulting language to a
            person of a higher rank; or

       (b) in the presence of a person of a higher rank uses
            threatening, insubordinate or insulting language about
            the person of a higher rank,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
27  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Refusing medical or dental examination or treatment

 32A. Any person who, without reasonable excuse, does not submit
to —

    (a) a medical or dental examination or test;

    (b) inoculation, vaccination or immunisation; or

    (c) medical or dental treatment,

where required to by the Commissioner, shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to any other punishment authorised by this
Act.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Disobedience to command

 33. Any person who disobeys a lawful command given to him or
her by a person of a higher rank shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Failure to comply with direction of person‑in‑command

 34. Any person who, when in or near any service ship, aircraft or
vehicle, fails to comply with a lawful direction given to him or her by
or with the authority of the person‑in‑command of the ship, aircraft or
vehicle —

       (a) in relation to the sailing or handling of the ship, flying or
            handling of the aircraft or handling of the vehicle; or

       (b) affecting the safety of the ship, aircraft or vehicle or
            persons on board the ship, aircraft or vehicle,

whether the person‑in‑command is a member or not, shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised by this
Act.

Failure to comply with order

 35.—(1) Any person who does not comply with a lawful order that
is applicable to him or her shall be guilty of an offence and shall be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    28

liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

(2) In this section, “order” means —

(a) an order, instruction or directive issued by, or under the
     authority of, the Commissioner; or

(b) a general standing or routine order or instruction in force
     with respect to the Force.

Abuse of authority

 36. Any person who knowingly exceeds his or her authority over a
person of a lower rank shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or
any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Destruction of, or damage to, service property

 37. Any person who intentionally, recklessly or negligently
destroys or damages service property shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Causing irrecoverable loss of service property

 37A.—(1) Any person who wilfully causes the irrecoverable loss of
any service property shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or
any other punishment authorised by this Act.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (2) Any person who, by any negligent act or omission, causes the
irrecoverable loss of any service property shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

Dishonest misappropriation of service property

 38. Any person who —

       (a) steals or dishonestly misappropriates any service property
            or any property belonging to a person subject to this Act or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
29  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    is concerned in the stealing or dishonest misappropriation
    of any such property; or

    (b) receives any service property or property belonging to a
         person subject to this Act knowing it to have been stolen or
         to have been dishonestly misappropriated,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Misapplication and waste of service property

 39. Any person who misapplies or wastefully expends any service
property shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

False statement in application

 40. Any person who, in or in connection with, or in support of, an
application for any grant, payment, allotment of money or
allowances, leave of absence or any other benefit or advantage, for
himself or herself or another, makes, either orally or in writing, any
statement which is to his or her knowledge false in a material
particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any
other punishment authorised by this Act.

Falsification, etc., of service documents

 41.—(1) Any person who with a view to gaining for himself or
herself or another or with intent to deceive another or cause loss to
another —

       (a) makes or signs a service document that is false in a material
            particular;

       (b) makes in a service document an entry that is false in a
            material particular;

       (c) alters a service document so that the document is false in a
            material particular;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    30

(d) suppresses, defaces, makes away with or destroys a service
     document, or a part of a service document, that it is his or
     her duty to preserve or produce; or

          (e) does not make an entry in a service document that it is his
              or her duty to make,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

(2) In this section, “service document” means —

(a) any document which is the property of the Force; or

(b) any document submitted to the Force for any purpose,

and includes any such document in the form of an electronic record,
and a reference to signing of a service document is deemed to include
the application of an electronic signature to an electronic record.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

False statement in relation to appointment or enlistment

 42.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) for the purposes of the person’s appointment to or
            enlistment in the Force with intent to deceive —

               (i) makes a false answer to any question set out in a
                   document required to be completed in relation to the
                   person’s appointment or enlistment;

              (ii) provides any false information or document in
                   relation to the person’s appointment or enlistment; or

             (iii) does not disclose, if and when lawfully required to do
                   so, particulars of any prior service in the Force; and

       (b) is subsequently appointed to or enlisted in the Force,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
31  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

(2) Any person who, with intent to deceive —

    (a) makes a false answer to any question set out in a document
         required to be completed in relation to the person’s
         appointment or enlistment;

    (b) provides any false information or document in relation to
         the person’s appointment or enlistment; or

    (c) does not disclose, if and when lawfully required to do so,
        particulars of any prior service in the Force,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

False evidence

 43. Any person who having been lawfully sworn as a witness or as
an interpreter in proceedings before a disciplinary officer or a board
of inquiry makes a statement material in those proceedings which the
person knows to be false or does not believe to be true shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised by this
Act.

Delay or denial of justice

 44.—(1) Where any person is under arrest or in custody for an
alleged service offence, a person who does not take such action as is
required of the person by or under this Act —

       (a) to have the case of the firstmentioned person brought
            before a commanding officer for investigation; or

       (b) to have the case of the firstmentioned person disposed of or
            tried summarily by a disciplinary officer,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

 (2) Where a person in custody under this Act is entitled to be
released, a person who does not take such action as is required of him

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    32

or her by or under this Act to release, or to order the release of the
firstmentioned person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or
any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Resistance to arrest

 45. Any person who —

       (a) refuses to obey a lawful order for the person’s arrest; or

       (b) commits an assault on —

               (i) a member who gives the order; or

              (ii) a person, whether a member or not who attempts to
                   apprehend the firstmentioned person, or take or hold
                   the firstmentioned person in custody, pursuant to the
                   order,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Escape from custody

 46. Any person who escapes from custody or a place of detention in
which the person is being held under this Act shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Unlawful release, etc., of person in custody

 47.—(1) Any person who allows to escape or without authority
releases a person who is delivered into his or her custody under this
Act or whom it is his or her duty to guard shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

 (2) Any person who facilitates the escape of a person who is in
custody or confinement under this Act shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised by this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
33  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person who with intent to facilitate an escape from a place
of confinement under this Act conveys anything into that place shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Absence without leave

 48.—(1) Any person who is absent without leave shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or any other punishment authorised by this
Act.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a person is absent without leave
if the person —

       (a) without authority leaves his or her place of duty;

       (b) without authority is absent from his or her place of duty;

       (c) having been authorised to be absent from his or her place of
            duty, fails to return to his or her place of duty at the
            expiration of the period for which his or her absence was
            authorised; or

       (d) having been notified to report for duty fails to report to his
            or her place of duty without lawful excuse.

 (3) It is a defence for any person charged with an offence under this
section to prove that the person’s absence was a result of
circumstances over which the person had no control.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

Malingering

 49.—(1) Any person who with intent to render or keep himself or
herself unfit for service or duty —

       (a) injures himself or herself or causes or permits himself or
            herself to be injured; or

       (b) by act or omission causes himself or herself to suffer from
            a sickness or disability or prolongs or aggravates a sickness
            or disability from which he or she suffers,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    34

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

 (2) Any person who, with intent to avoid service or duty, falsely
represents himself or herself to be suffering from a sickness or
disability shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
any other punishment authorised by this Act.

Drunkeness on duty, etc.

 50.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) is drunk on duty; or

       (b) is drunk when the person reports or should report for duty,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a person is deemed to be drunk
if, and only if, the person’s faculties are, by reason of being under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, a drug or a psychoactive substance,
so impaired that —

       (a) it would be imprudent to entrust the person, or to allow the
            person to continue, with the discharge of the person’s
            duties; or

       (b) the person is unfit for the discharge of the person’s duties.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

Assaults, insulting words, etc.
 51. Any person who, on service land, in a service ship, aircraft or

vehicle or in a public place —
       (a) commits an assault on another person;
       (b) causes a disturbance or behaves in a manner likely to cause
            a disturbance;
       (c) behaves in an obscene manner;
       (d) uses insulting or provocative words to another person; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
35  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (e) by reason of being under the influence of intoxicating
        liquor, a drug or a psychoactive substance behaves in a
        disorderly manner,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2023 wef 01/06/2024]

Negligent performance of duty

 52. Any person who, in the performance of a duty that he or she is
required by his or her office or appointment to perform, does not
exercise such care as he or she could reasonably be expected to
exercise having regard to the activities upon which he or she is
engaged and to his or her training and experience in the Force shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 3 years or any other punishment authorised
by this Act.

Contempt

 53. Any person who —

       (a) fails to comply with a summons or order to attend as a
            witness at a board of inquiry or at a trial of a service
            offence before a disciplinary officer;

       (b) refuses to take an oath or make an affirmation when
            required to do so by a disciplinary officer at a trial of a
            service offence or by a board of inquiry;

       (c) refuses to produce any document or material in the
            person’s custody or control which a board of inquiry, a
            disciplinary officer or an investigating officer lawfully
            requires the person to produce;

       (d) as a witness refuses to answer any question which a board
            of inquiry or a disciplinary officer lawfully requires an
            answer;

       (e) wilfully insults a disciplinary officer at a trial of a service
            offence or a board of inquiry; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    36

          (f) wilfully interrupts, obstructs or disturbs the proceedings of
              a trial before a disciplinary officer or a board of inquiry,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or any other
punishment authorised by this Act.

Attempts to commit service offence

 54.—(1) Any person who, with intent to commit an offence under
this Part, by act or omission behaves in a manner that is, or that the
person believes to be, a substantial step towards the commission of
the offence is deemed, for the purpose of this section, to have
attempted to commit the offence.

 (2) Any person who attempts to commit a service offence under any
of the provisions of this Part shall be liable on conviction to the like
punishment for that offence.

 (3) Any person charged with attempting to commit a service
offence may be convicted of the attempt even though the evidence in
the proceedings proves that the person committed the offence.

 (4) Where an attempt to commit a service offence is voluntarily
abandoned, the fact and circumstances of that abandonment may be
taken into consideration in mitigation of any punishment to be
imposed in respect of the attempt.

Aiding, etc., commission of service offence
 55. Any person who intentionally or recklessly —
       (a) aids, abets, counsels or procures;
       (b) incites to, urges or encourages; or
       (c) commands or orders,

the commission of a service offence shall be guilty of the offence.

Conduct to the prejudice of Force discipline

 56. Any person who is guilty of any conduct or neglect to the
prejudice of good order or discipline of the Force shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment for a term

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
37  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

not exceeding one year or any other punishment authorised by this
Act.

                                    PART 6

                 ARREST, CUSTODY AND SEARCH

Arrest without warrant

 57.—(1) A member may, without warrant, arrest a person over
whom the member has a power of arrest if —

       (a) the member finds the person committing a service offence;
            or

       (b) the member suspects, on reasonable grounds, that the
            person is committing or has committed a service offence
            and believes, on reasonable grounds, that the arrest of the
            person without warrant is necessary —

               (i) to ensure the appearance of the person before a
                   disciplinary officer;

              (ii) to prevent any further disturbance of a substantial
                   nature to public order;

             (iii) to ensure the personal safety or wellbeing of the
                   person; or

             (iv) to prevent persistence in, or a repetition or
                   continuance of, the service offence.

 (2) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) an officer has subject to the regulations a power of arrest
            over —

               (i) a member of a lower rank; and

              (ii) any officer, if the officer is behaving in a disorderly
                   or violent manner;

       (b) a non-commissioned officer has a power of arrest over —

               (i) a serviceman of a lower rank; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    38

          (ii) any serviceman, if the serviceman is behaving in a
               disorderly or violent manner;

          (c) a provost officer, or a person lawfully exercising authority
              under or on behalf of a provost officer, has a power of
              arrest over any member; and

(d) a police officer has a power of arrest over a person whom
     the police officer suspects on reasonable grounds —

          (i) to be unlawfully at large during the currency of a
              sentence of imprisonment or detention imposed
              under this Act; or

          (ii) to be in desertion or absence without leave.

 (3) A power of arrest under this section may be exercised
personally or by giving an order for the arrest of the person
concerned, and it is the duty of the member to whom such an order is
given to carry out the order.

Arrest under warrant

 58.—(1) A commanding officer, an officer superior in command to
that officer or an officer authorised by the regulations may issue a
warrant for the arrest of a person subject to this Act where that person
is not present and the issuing officer has reasonable grounds for
suspecting that that person —

       (a) has committed an offence against this Act; and

       (b) will not appear before a disciplinary officer.

 (2) A police officer or a member may, in execution of a warrant
issued in accordance with subsection (1), arrest the person for whose
arrest the warrant has been issued.

Reasonable force to effect arrest

 59. Any person authorised to effect an arrest may use such force as
is reasonably necessary for that purpose.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
39  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Arrested person to be informed of alleged offence

 60. A person exercising a power of arrest must inform the person he
or she is arresting at the time of the arrest, in ordinary language, of the
nature of the charge upon which the person is being arrested, unless it
is not reasonably practicable to do so or unless the reason for the
arrest is obvious in the circumstances.

Detention in civil custody of arrested person

 61. Any police officer may detain a person arrested (whether by
himself or herself or by another) at a police station or other place
provided for the holding of persons in custody for such time as is
reasonably necessary to enable the arrested person to be delivered
into the custody of a provost officer or of any other member who is
authorised for the purpose by or under the regulations.

Person in custody to be dealt with in accordance with Act

 62. It is the duty of a member who receives a person into the
member’s custody to deal with the person as provided by this Act and
the regulations.

Avoidance of delay after arrest

 63.—(1) When a member exercises his or her power of arrest or
receives a person into service custody, the member must as soon as
practicable having regard to the circumstances of the arrest cause the
person arrested to be transferred to the custody of a commanding
officer.

 (2) Where a person arrested has come into the custody of a
commanding officer, that commanding officer must release the
person arrested as soon as the person’s continued custody, for one of
the reasons specified in section 57(1)(b), is no longer necessary and
may impose such restrictions as are permitted by section 64.

 (3) When a person arrested is not released in accordance with
subsection (2), the commanding officer into whose custody the
person arrested has been transferred in accordance with
subsection (1) must, within 24 hours of receiving the person into

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    40

custody, cause the person to be given a copy of the charge on which
the person is being held.

 (4) Within 48 hours of a person arrested being received into custody
of a commanding officer, the commanding officer is to cause
proceedings to be commenced for the hearing and determination of
the charge or report his or her reasons for not so doing to the
appropriate authority.

 (5) Where a person who has been charged with an offence remains
in custody for a period exceeding 4 days without the charge having
been disposed of or tried by a disciplinary officer, the commanding
officer must make a written report to the appropriate authority stating
the reasons for the delay.

 (6) The commanding officer must make a similar report to the
appropriate authority at the conclusion of each subsequent period of
4 days if the person is still held in custody without the charge having
been disposed of or tried by a disciplinary officer.

 (7) A commanding officer who certifies in writing that, having
regard to the exigencies of service, it is not reasonably practicable to
do so, is not required to comply with subsection (5) or (6).

 (8) Where a person remains in custody for 8 days and the charge
against the person has not been heard and determined, it is the duty of
the appropriate authority to whom a report under subsection (5) or (6)
has been made to notify the Commissioner of the reasons why the
charge has not been heard and determined.

 (9) Upon receipt of a notification in accordance with subsection (8),
the Commissioner must, unless the Commissioner is satisfied that it is
proper that the person should continue in custody, order the release of
the person from custody.

Conditional release

 64.—(1) A commanding officer may at any time release from
custody a person charged with an offence and may impose such
reasonable restrictions on the person as the commanding officer
considers appropriate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
41  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) A person released under subsection (1) or under section 63 may
only be returned into custody —

    (a) if the person is in breach of a restriction imposed upon the
         person under subsection (1);

    (b) if the person is arrested under section 57 or 58 in relation to
         another offence; or

    (c) if it is necessary for any of the reasons specified in
        section 57(1)(b).

 (3) A restriction imposed upon a person under subsection (1) may,
at any time, be revoked by the officer who imposed it, or by an officer
acting in the place of that officer and, if not so revoked ceases to have
effect when —

    (a) the person is again taken into custody in connection with
         the charge; or

    (b) the charge is heard and determined.

Making of physical examination

 65.—(1) Where a person is in custody and a provost officer
believes, on reasonable grounds, that the making of a physical
examination of the person may —

       (a) provide evidence of the commission of an offence by the
            person; or

       (b) provide evidence of the identity of the person,

that officer may authorise a duly qualified medical practitioner to
make a physical examination of the person and may authorise the use
of such force as is reasonably necessary to convey that person to a
duly qualified medical practitioner.

 (2) A duly qualified medical practitioner who is authorised to do so
under subsection (1) may make a physical examination of a person
and may, for that purpose, use such force and obtain such assistance
as is reasonably necessary.

 (3) Where a duly qualified medical practitioner makes a physical
examination of a person under this section, that medical practitioner

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    42

has to give to the provost officer who authorised the examination a
report setting out the results of the examination.

Search of place where person sought to be arrested has entered

 66.—(1) If any person acting with a warrant of arrest issued under
section 58 or acting without a warrant of arrest under section 57 has
reason to believe that any person to be arrested has entered into or is
within any place, the person residing in or in charge of such place
must, on demand of such person acting as aforesaid, allow him or her
free entry thereto and afford all reasonable facilities for search therein
of the person to be arrested.

 (2) Where free entry to such place cannot be obtained under
subsection (1) it is lawful for a person acting with a warrant of arrest
or a provost officer acting without a warrant of arrest, where such
warrant is not immediately obtainable in order to enter such place, to
break open any outer or inner door or window of any place whether
that of the person to be arrested or of any other person if, after
notification of his or her authority and purpose and demand of
admittance duly made, he or she cannot otherwise obtain admittance.

Search of person in custody
 67. Subject to section 68, where a person is in custody —
       (a) the person whose custody he or she is in;
       (b) a provost officer; or
       (c) a person acting in accordance with the directions of a
            person referred to in paragraph (a) or (b),

may search the firstmentioned person and may take from the
firstmentioned person anything found on him or her.

Search by person of same sex, etc.

 68. Despite section 67 —

       (a) a person must not be searched except by a person of the
            same sex;

       (b) a person must not be searched except in the presence of a
            third person of the same sex; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
43  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (c) an officer must not be searched except by or under the
        authority of an officer.

Disposal of property taken on search

 69.—(1) Where property of which possession has been taken under
section 67 is required as evidence in connection with a charge, the
property may be retained for that purpose and then disposed of as the
disciplinary officer hearing the charge orders but, if it is not so
required, it must be returned to the person from whose possession it
was taken.

 (2) The power to retain and dispose of property conferred by
subsection (1) is in addition to, and not in derogation of, the powers
conferred by any other provision of this Act.

                                    PART 7

  TRIAL AND PUNISHMENT BY DISCIPLINARY OFFICERS

Manner of dealing with charges

 70.—(1) Before an allegation against a person subject to this Act
(called in this Act the accused) that he or she has committed a service
offence is further proceeded with, the allegation must —

       (a) if the accused is a public officer — be reported in the form
            of a charge to a disciplinary officer and dealt with in
            accordance with the provisions of this Part; or

       (b) if the accused is not a public officer —

               (i) be reported in the form of a charge to a disciplinary
                   officer and dealt with in accordance with the
                   provisions of this Part; or

              (ii) be referred to a member or public officer authorised
                   by the Commissioner to compound service offences
                   for composition of the offence under section 85A.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2022 wef 28/10/2022]

 (2) A disciplinary officer when dealing with a charge against an
accused —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    44

(a) must refer the charge to the Commissioner if the accused is
     a public officer or if the disciplinary officer considers that
     the charge ought to be dealt with by a court;

(b) may dismiss the charge if the disciplinary officer is of the
     opinion that it ought not to be further proceeded with; or

          (c) may try the accused.

 (3) References in this Act to dealing with a charge by a disciplinary
officer are references to the taking by the appropriate disciplinary
officer, as the case may require, of the following actions:

(a) determining whether the accused is guilty;

(b) dismissing the charge or recording a finding of guilt
     accordingly; and

          (c) awarding punishment.

Manner of dealing with charge against members who are
public officers

 71. A charge against an accused who is a public officer may, if the
Commissioner thinks fit, be referred to the Public Service
Commission for the member to be dealt with by the Public Service
Commission in accordance with the regulations governing
disciplinary proceedings against officers in the public service.

Jurisdiction of disciplinary officers

 72.—(1) If the accused is an officer below the rank of
lieutenant‑colonel, the charge must, within such time as may be
prescribed, be brought before a senior disciplinary officer who is at
least 2 ranks above the accused.

 (2) If the accused is a senior warrant officer or a warrant officer, the
charge must, within such time as may be prescribed, be brought
before a senior disciplinary officer.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (3) If the accused is a serviceman below the rank of warrant officer,
the charge must, within such time as may be prescribed, be brought
before a junior disciplinary officer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
45  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Trial of former members

 73. A person who is subject to this Act under section 16 may be
tried for an offence committed while the person was a member only
by a court.

Dismissal of charge

 74. Where a disciplinary officer dismisses a charge, the disciplinary
officer must record the reason for the dismissal of the charge.

Punishments

 75.—(1) Where a junior disciplinary officer finds an accused guilty
of a charge, the junior disciplinary officer may award one of the
following punishments:

       (a) detention for a period not exceeding 40 days;

       (b) a fine not exceeding $1,500;

       (c) a reprimand;

       (d) any other minor punishment that may be prescribed by
            regulations.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) Where a senior disciplinary officer finds an accused guilty of a
charge, the senior disciplinary officer may award one of the following
punishments:

       (a) if the accused is a warrant officer (of any rank), detention
            for a period not exceeding 40 days;

       (b) if the accused is a warrant officer (of any rank), second
            lieutenant or lieutenant, a fine not exceeding $2,000 or, if
            the accused is a captain or major, a fine not exceeding
            $3,000;

       (c) a reprimand;

       (d) any other minor punishment that may be prescribed by
            regulations.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) Where a disciplinary officer is of the opinion that the accused
should be reduced in rank in addition to or in lieu of any punishment

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    46

which may be awarded by the disciplinary officer, he or she may refer
the charge and the record of the proceedings to the Commissioner
with a recommendation that the accused be reduced in rank and the
Commissioner may, at his or her discretion but subject to section 76B,
reduce the rank of the accused in addition to or in substitution for the
punishment imposed by the disciplinary officer.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) In addition to any of the punishments mentioned in
subsection (1), a disciplinary officer may order an officer or
serviceman found guilty of any offence under this Act to pay
compensation, not exceeding $300, to any person who suffered
bodily injury, damage or loss occasioned by the commission of the
service offence.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (5) In addition to or in lieu of any other punishment, a disciplinary
officer may order the accused to pay such sum as the disciplinary
officer may determine as compensation to the Government for the
loss of or damage to any service property or part thereof occasioned
by the commission of the service offence.

 (6) In assessing the amount of compensation payable under
subsection (5), the disciplinary officer must have regard to the
earnings of the accused.

 (7) Nothing in subsection (4) shall prejudice the right of any person
to a civil remedy for the recovery of damages beyond the amount of
compensation ordered.

Power of Disciplinary Board to deal with charges against
lieutenant-colonel, etc.

 76.—(1) A charge against an officer of the rank of
lieutenant‑colonel or above may be dealt with only by a
Disciplinary Board consisting of 3 persons (none of whom may be
the Commissioner) appointed for the purpose, either generally or
specially, by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) The following provisions apply to an officer dealt with by a
Disciplinary Board as if the officer were dealt with by a disciplinary
officer:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
47  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Sections 17, 18(1), 19(1) and (3), 20, 21, 43, 53, 74, 75(4), (5), (6)
and (7), 83, 85, 89(1)(b), (c) and (d), 91, 97 and 115(2)(e).

                                                                                                         [53/2018]

(3) A Disciplinary Board may —

    (a) dismiss the charge if it thinks that the charge ought not to
         be proceeded with; or

    (b) deal with the case and upon conviction of the accused
         impose —

    (i) a reprimand; or

    (ii) if the accused is a lieutenant-colonel or a colonel, a
         fine not exceeding $6,000, or if the accused is an
         Assistant Commissioner, a fine not exceeding
         $10,000,

    (b) and may additionally make a recommendation to the
         Minister that the accused be reduced in rank, and the
         Minister may, subject to section 76B, reduce the rank of the
         accused in addition to or in substitution for the punishment
         imposed by the Disciplinary Board.

                                                                                                     [53/2018]

Appeal against award or finding

 76A.—(1) An accused who is aggrieved by a finding or punishment
awarded by a disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board may, within
5 days after being notified of the finding or punishment (or a longer or
shorter period if prescribed in substitution), appeal to the
Commissioner against the finding or punishment.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) An appeal under subsection (1) must be made in such form and
manner as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) Where an appeal has been made under subsection (2) against a
finding or punishment awarded by a disciplinary officer or
Disciplinary Board, the punishment awarded is suspended pending
the determination of the appeal.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    48

 (4) The Commissioner may determine an appeal under
subsection (2) against a finding or punishment awarded by a
disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board —

(a) by confirming any finding of guilt or punishment ordered
     by the disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board;

(b) by quashing any finding of guilt or punishment ordered by
     the disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board and, if the
     Commissioner is of the opinion that the case against the
     appellant should be re-tried, by ordering the case to be
     re‑tried by another disciplinary officer or Disciplinary
     Board;

          (c) by replacing any finding by the disciplinary officer or
              Disciplinary Board that, in the Commissioner’s opinion, is
              illegal or cannot be supported by the evidence with a new
              finding that could validly have been made by the
              disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board on the charge
              and on the facts; or

       (d) by varying the punishment by way of enhancement,
            reduction, substitution or otherwise except that no
            greater or more severe punishment is to be ordered
            unless the appellant has been given a reasonable
            opportunity of being heard.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) The Commissioner’s decision under this section is final.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Commissioner’s
decision under this section.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (7) The Commissioner may designate a Deputy Commissioner to
hear and determine, in the Commissioner’s place, any appeal to the
Commissioner under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (8) A reference to the Commissioner in subsections (4), (5) and (6)
includes a reference to a person designated under subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
49                   Civil Defence Act 1986                   2020 Ed.

Reduction after conviction

 76B. Where a disciplinary officer or Disciplinary Board
recommends to the Commissioner or the Minister under
section 75(3) or 76(3)(b) to reduce the rank of an accused, the
Commissioner or the Minister must not reduce the rank of the accused
before —

    (a) the expiry of the period for making an appeal under
         section 76A(1); or

    (b) the determination of any appeal under section 76A,

whichever is later.

                                                              [53/2018]

Commencement of sentence of detention

 77.—(1) A sentence of detention imposed as a punishment takes
effect from the date on which it was passed, unless the disciplinary
officer passing the sentence otherwise directs.

 (2) Where a person convicted of a service offence was already
under service custody prior to the date on which an order for the
person’s detention was made, the sentence of detention takes effect
from the date the person was in service custody.

Sentence of detention

 78. Any person sentenced to detention under this Act must, unless
otherwise provided for in the regulations, serve the person’s sentence
in detention barrack.

Suspension of sentence

 79.—(1) It is lawful for a disciplinary officer when passing a
sentence of detention to order that the sentence be suspended and the
accused must not in that event be committed to detention barrack.

 (2) Where any such sentence is suspended and the offender so
sentenced is sentenced for a fresh offence during the period of
suspension by a disciplinary officer to detention, the disciplinary
officer —

       (a) may cancel the suspension of the earlier sentence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    50

(b) must direct whether the 2 sentences are to run concurrently
     or consecutively.

Provisions as to persons unlawfully at large

 80.—(1) Any person who, having been sentenced to detention
under this Act, is at large may (without prejudice to any other power
of arrest) be arrested by any police officer or any officer of the Force
or a provost officer without warrant and taken to any place in which
the person may be required to be detained in accordance with this Act.

 (2) Where any person sentenced to detention under this Act is at
large at any time during the period for which the person is liable to be
detained in pursuance of the sentence, no account is to be taken, in
calculating the period for which the person is liable to be so detained,
of any time elapsing after the person was at large and before either the
person is taken into custody or the person is received into a detention
barrack.

Review of findings and awards

 81.—(1) Where a charge has been dealt with by a disciplinary
officer otherwise than by the dismissal thereof, the Commissioner
may review the finding or award.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) Where on a review under this section it appears to the
Commissioner expedient to do so by reason of any mistake in law
in the proceedings on the dealing with the charge or of anything
occurring in those proceedings which in the Commissioner’s opinion
involved substantial injustice to the accused, the Commissioner may
quash the finding and may order a re‑trial if the Commissioner
considers that a re‑trial is necessary in the interests of justice.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) If a finding in any proceedings is quashed under subsection (2)
and the award made in those proceedings relates only to the finding
quashed, the Commissioner may also quash the award.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) If the award relates also to any other finding and it appears to the
Commissioner that the award was not warranted by this Act in respect
of that other finding, the Commissioner may vary the award by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
51  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

substituting such punishment as the Commissioner may think proper,
being a punishment which could have been included in the original
award in relation to that other finding, and not being in the opinion of
the Commissioner more severe than the punishment included in the
original award.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) Where on a review under this section it appears to the
Commissioner that a punishment awarded was invalid, or too
severe, the Commissioner may vary the award by substituting such
punishment as the Commissioner may think proper, being a
punishment which could have been included in the original award
and not being in the Commissioner’s opinion more severe than the
punishment included in the original award.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (6) Where on a review under this section it appears to the
Commissioner that an order to pay compensation made under
section 75(4) or (5) was invalid, or unduly excessive, the
Commissioner may quash the order or vary the amount of
compensation payable under the order.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (7) The Commissioner may at any time suspend the execution of
any sentence passed by a disciplinary officer for such period as the
Commissioner thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 82. [Repealed by Act 32 of 2010]

Inapplicability of law of evidence

 83. A disciplinary officer is not bound by the law of evidence and
must act in such manner as seems to the disciplinary officer most
expedient for the disposal of the charge.

Detention in default of payment of fine

 84.—(1) A disciplinary officer, if he or she is empowered under this
Act to impose detention as a punishment, may direct that in default of
the payment of any fine imposed by him or her on any offender, the
offender must, subject to subsection (2), undergo detention for such
period as the disciplinary officer may determine.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    52

 (2) The period of detention which a disciplinary officer may direct
under subsection (1) is as follows:

(a) if the fine does not exceed $300, detention for a period not
     exceeding 10 days;

(b) if the fine exceeds $300 but does not exceed $1,000,
     detention for a period not exceeding 20 days;

       (c) in any other case, detention for a period not exceeding
            40 days.

                                                                                                [32/2010; 53/2018]

 (3) Such detention takes effect from such date as the disciplinary
officer may direct and terminates whenever the fine is paid.

Rules of Procedure

 85.—(1) Subject to this section, the Minister may make rules
(called in this Act the Rules of Procedure) with respect to the
investigation and trial of, and awarding of punishment for, offences
which may be dealt with by a disciplinary officer.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Rules of Procedure may
make provision with respect to all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the procedure to be observed in the bringing of charges
            before a disciplinary officer;

       (b) the manner in which charges so brought are to be
            investigated, and the taking of evidence (whether orally
            or in writing, whether or not on oath and whether in full or
            in summary or abstract form) for the purpose of
            investigating or dealing with such charges;

       (c) the addition to, or substitution for, a charge which has been
            investigated of a new charge for an offence disclosed by
            evidence taken on the investigation and the treating of the
            investigation as the investigation of the new charge;

       (d) the procedure to be observed in proceedings before a
            disciplinary officer;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
53  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (e) procuring the attendance of witnesses before such
        proceedings and at the taking of evidence pursuant to
        rules made under paragraph (b);

    (f) empowering a disciplinary officer to amend a charge which
        is being tried by him or her;

    (g) the forms of orders and other documents to be made or
         used for the purposes of any provision of this Act or the
         Rules of Procedure relating to the investigation or trial of,
         or award of punishment for, service offences; and

    (h) any matter which by this Part is required or authorised to be
         prescribed.

 (3) Any provision of the Rules of Procedure which is inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act is to the extent of the inconsistency
void.

Composition of service offences

 85A.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), any member or public officer
authorised by the Commissioner to compound service offences
(called in this section an authorised composition officer), may
compound any service offence that is prescribed as a compoundable
offence (called in this section a prescribed offence) by collecting
from an accused (not being a public officer) reasonably suspected of
having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            authorised to be imposed by a disciplinary officer on the
            accused for the offence under this Part;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) An authorised composition officer must not compound a
prescribed offence reasonably suspected to have been committed
by an accused who is in the same chain of command as the authorised
composition officer.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (1), no
further proceedings are to be taken against the accused in respect of
the prescribed offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    54

 (4) All sums collected for the composition of a service offence
under this Act must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 24 of 2022 wef 28/10/2022]

                                    PART 8

                     POWERS OF INVESTIGATION

Provost officer may investigate service offences

 86. A provost officer may conduct an investigation where there is
reason to believe that a service offence has been committed.

Powers of investigation of provost officer

 87.—(1) In an investigation relating to the commission of a service
offence, a provost officer has all the powers of a police officer under
the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in relation to an investigation of a
seizable offence.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), when a provost officer is
exercising the powers of a police officer under the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, the provost officer is deemed to be an
officer not below the rank of inspector of police.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

                                    PART 9
              DEDUCTIONS FROM PAY OF MEMBER
Authorised deductions only to be made from pay
 88. The pay of a member is to be paid without any deduction other
than the deductions authorised by this Act or by any other written law.

Deductions from ordinary pay of member
 89.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the following deductions may,

or if the regulations so provide must, be made from the ordinary pay
due to a member:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
55  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) all ordinary pay —

    (i) for every day of absence on desertion or without
        leave, or for overstaying the period for which leave
        of absence is granted;

    (ii) for every day of imprisonment, corrective training,
         preventive detention, reformative training or
         detention of any other description, to which the
         member is liable in consequence of an order or
         sentence of a court;

    (iii) for every day of detention imposed by a disciplinary
          officer under section 75;

    (iv) for every day during which the member is in a drug
         rehabilitation centre;

    (v) for every day during which the member is in hospital
         on account of sickness certified by the proper
         medical officer attending to the member at the
         hospital to have been caused by a service offence
         committed by the member;

    (b) the sum required to make good any compensation which a
         disciplinary officer has in exercise of the powers conferred
         by section 75(4) ordered the member to pay to any person;

    (c) the sum to make good any compensation which a
        disciplinary officer has under section 75(5) ordered the
        member to pay to the Government;

    (d) the sum required to pay any fine or penalty which a
         disciplinary officer before which the member has been
         charged with a service offence has ordered the member to
         pay; and

    (e) the sum which the member is required to pay as
        contribution to the Government pursuant to an order
        made under section 92(3).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    56

 (2) The total amount of deductions from the ordinary pay due to a
member in respect of the sums referred to in subsection (1) must not
exceed such sums as will leave to the member less than $5 a day.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (3) A member must not be subjected to any deduction greater than
the sums which he or she has been ordered to pay to make good the
loss or damage.

Supplemental provisions as to deductions from ordinary pay

 90.—(1) Any sum authorised by this Act to be deducted from the
ordinary pay of a member may, without prejudice to any other mode
of recovering the same, be deducted from the ordinary pay or from
any sum due to the member, in such manner, and when deducted or
recovered may be appropriated in such manner, as may from time to
time be directed by the regulations.

 (2) The regulations may from time to time declare what is, for the
purposes of this Act relating to deductions from pay, deemed to
constitute a day of absence or a day of imprisonment or detention, so
that —

       (a) no person may be treated as absent, imprisoned or detained
            for the purposes of this Act unless the absence,
            imprisonment or detention has lasted 6 hours or more,
            except where the absence prevented the absentee from
            fulfilling any duty;

       (b) a period of absence, imprisonment or detention which
            commences before and ends after midnight may be
            reckoned as a day;

       (c) the number of days may be reckoned as from the time when
            the absence, imprisonment or detention commences; and

       (d) no period of less than 24 hours may be reckoned as more
            than one day.

Write-off of public property

 91. Without affecting section 19 of the Financial Procedure
Act 1966 —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
57  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) where, during or at the conclusion of a trial by a
         disciplinary officer, the disciplinary officer —

    (i) makes an order under section 75(5) for the payment
        of compensation for part of the loss of or damage to
        service property; or

    (ii) does not make any order for the payment of
         compensation for the loss of or damage to service
         property; or

    (b) where there is any loss of or damage to any service
         property which was caused by the commission of an
         offence which has been dealt with by a court,

the Commissioner may write off the full value or part thereof of the
loss or damage to service property which remains irrecoverable or
unrecovered.

                                   PART 10

                           BOARD OF INQUIRY

Board of inquiry

 92.—(1) Where it is expedient that the Minister, or such other
person as the Minister may appoint to exercise the powers conferred
upon the Minister by this Part, should be informed on any matter
connected with the government, discipline, administration or
functions of the Force or affecting any person subject to this Act,
the Minister or the person appointed by the Minister may convene a
board of inquiry.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (2) A board of inquiry must inquire into and report on the facts
relating to any matter referred to it and, if directed by the Minister to
do so, express its opinion on any question arising out of any such
matter.

 (3) The Minister may, where a board of inquiry has found that any
wrongful or negligent act or omission of a member has caused or will
cause the Government to suffer any loss or to incur any liability
arising from the negligent act or omission of the member, order the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    58

member (whether or not he or she is still a member when the order is
made) to pay such sum as the Minister may determine as contribution
to the Government for the loss or liability.

 (4) The Minister may write off the value of any loss which remains
irrecoverable or unrecovered.

 (5) The Minister may exercise the powers conferred by this section
even though any other person has been appointed under
subsection (1).

 (6) In this Part, “Minister” includes the person appointed by the
Minister under subsection (1) to act on his or her behalf for the
purposes of this Part.

Composition

 93.—(1) A board of inquiry consists of one or more persons who
must be appointed by the Minister.

 (2) Where a board of inquiry consists of more than one person, the
Minister must appoint one of the members to be the chairperson.

 (3) Where a board of inquiry consists of one member only, he or she
is to be vested with the powers of chairperson.

 (4) Members of a board of inquiry need not necessarily be members
of the Force.

Powers

 94. A board of inquiry may —

       (a) summon any person to give evidence on oath or on
            affirmation or produce any document or material necessary
            for the purpose of the inquiry; and

       (b) visit any place in order to inquire into any matter which
            may arise in the course of the inquiry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
59  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Summoning and privilege of witnesses at board of inquiry and
misconduct of civilian thereat

 95.—(1) Every person required to give evidence before a board of
inquiry may be summoned or ordered to attend the proceedings of the
board.

 (2) Every person attending pursuant to such summons or order as a
witness before any board has, during the person’s necessary
attendance at such inquiry and in going to and returning from the
same, the same privilege from arrest as he or she would have if he or
she were a witness before a civil court.

(3) Where any person who is not subject to this Act —

    (a) on being duly summoned as a witness before a board of
         inquiry and after payment or tender of the reasonable
         expenses of the person’s attendance, makes default in
         attending; or

    (b) being in attendance as a witness —

    (i) refuses to take an oath lawfully required by the board
        to be taken;

    (ii) refuses to produce any document in the person’s
         power or control lawfully required by the board to be
         produced by him or her; or

    (iii) refuses to answer any question to which a board may
          lawfully require an answer,

the chairperson of the board may certify the offence of the person
under the hand of the chairperson to a Magistrate’s Court and that
Court may thereupon inquire into the alleged offence.

 (4) After examining any witness that may be produced against or on
behalf of the person so accused, and after hearing any statement that
may be offered in defence, the Magistrate’s Court may, if it seems
just, punish the person in the like manner as if he or she had
committed the offence in a proceeding in the Court.

 (5) Where a person not subject to this Act when examined on oath
or on affirmation before a board of inquiry wilfully gives false
evidence, he or she shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    60

conviction before a competent court to be punished for the offence of
giving false evidence in a judicial proceeding.

 (6) Where a person not subject to this Act is guilty of any contempt
towards a board of inquiry —

(a) by using insulting or threatening language;

(b) by causing any interruption or disturbance in its
     proceedings; or

          (c) by printing observations or using words calculated to
              influence the members of or witnesses before the board or
              to bring the board into disrepute,

the chairperson of the board may certify the offence of the person
under the hand of the chairperson to a Magistrate’s Court.

 (7) The Magistrate’s Court may thereupon inquire into the alleged
offence as specified in subsection (6), and after hearing —

(a) any witness that may be produced against or on behalf of
     the person so accused; and

(b) any statement that may be offered in defence,

if it seems just, punish or take steps for the punishment of the person
in the like manner as if he or she had been guilty of contempt of that
Court.

Evidence and procedure

 96. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a board of inquiry is
not bound by the rules of evidence and may act in such manner as it
thinks most expedient.

Admissibility of evidence

 97. No statement made in the course of any inquiry and no report of
a board of inquiry are admissible as evidence in proceedings before a
disciplinary officer other than proceedings for an offence under
section 43.

Sittings not open to public
 98.—(1) A board of inquiry must not sit in public.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
61  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) A person is not allowed to attend an inquiry or address the board
of inquiry except with the permission of the chairperson of the board
or if the Minister so directs.

Person who may be affected by finding

 99.—(1) Where it appears to a board of inquiry that any person
subject to this Act may be adversely affected by its findings, it must
notify him or her thereof and give him or her an opportunity to be
present at the sittings of the board of inquiry or at such part thereof as
the chairperson of the board may specify.

 (2) Any such person as referred to in subsection (1) is allowed to
give evidence and examine witnesses.

Record of proceedings

 100.—(1) The chairperson of the board of inquiry is to record or
cause to be recorded in writing the proceedings of the board.

 (2) The evidence of each witness before the board of inquiry must
be read over to the person and must be signed by that person.

 (3) A record of the proceedings must be signed by the chairperson
of the board of inquiry and its members (if any) and forwarded to the
Minister.

                                    PART 11
                    CIVIL DEFENCE FORCE FUND
Civil Defence Force Fund
 101.—(1) A fund called the Civil Defence Force Fund is
established.
 (2) The Fund consists of —
       (a) all sums forfeited by or fines inflicted on members under
            the powers conferred by this Act;
       (b) donations offered to the Fund and accepted by the
            Commissioner;
       (c) voluntary contributions from members; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    62

(d) contributions from moneys provided by Parliament.

 (3) The Fund is to be controlled by the Commissioner and applied
for the purposes of the welfare of members, civil defence volunteers
and their families and for such other purposes as the Commissioner
thinks fit.

                                  PART 11A

                      DAY‑TO‑DAY OPERATIONS

Powers for day‑to‑day operations

 101A.—(1) The Commissioner or any member authorised by the
Commissioner may, if the action authorised by this section appears to
him or her to be necessary for the discharge of the function in
section 4(1)(c) —

       (a) enter upon and, if necessary, break into any place, building,
            premises or land;

       (b) remove from any place, vehicle, structure or thing
            impeding such operations and, to facilitate its removal,
            use such force as is reasonably necessary or break into any
            such vehicle;

       (c) remove, using reasonable force if necessary, any individual
            whose life, health or safety is, in his or her opinion,
            endangered;

       (d) stop individuals from entering, or close or cause to be
            closed to traffic, any road, street, path, private street,
            private way, service lane, waterway, right of way or access
            way or other way;

       (e) shut off or disconnect the supply of gas, fuel oil, water or
            electricity to any premises or order any person having the
            control of such supply to shut off or disconnect the supply;

        (f) require any individual whom he or she has reason to
            suspect has been exposed to any hazardous material in a
            hazardous materials incident to undergo such medical

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
63  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    examination and medical treatment at such place or
    hospital as he or she may specify; and

       (g) seize any thing that is contaminated by any hazardous
            material as a result of a hazardous materials incident and
            dispose of the thing.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) The Commissioner or any member authorised by the
Commissioner may, for the purposes of facilitating the provision of
urgent medical care to an individual whose identity is not known and
who is unconscious or otherwise unable to communicate, take the
individual’s fingerprints or other personal identifiers.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Persons assisting Force

 101B.—(1) The powers conferred by section 101A(1)(a) to (e) and
(2) may also be exercised by the following persons:

       (a) any employee of an emergency ambulance service
            provider providing emergency ambulance services for
            the Force in the performance of a contract between the
            emergency ambulance service provider and the
            Government;

       (b) any regular serviceman or national serviceman enlisted
            with the Singapore Armed Forces who is attached to the
            Force to assist in the provision of emergency ambulance
            services by the Force.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) An employee of an emergency ambulance service provider
providing emergency ambulance services for the Force in the
performance of a contract between the emergency ambulance
service provider and the Government is, in relation to the
employee’s performance of the employee’s duties in connection
with the provision of the emergency ambulance services, taken to be a
public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    64

Protection from personal liability

 101C. No liability shall lie personally against the Commissioner or
any member, or any person mentioned in section 101B who, acting in
good faith and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in
the execution or purported execution of this Act.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

                                PART 12
          STATE OF CIVIL DEFENCE EMERGENCY

                                                                    [32/2010]

Declaration of state of civil defence emergency

 102.—(1) If at any time it appears to the Minister that a civil
defence emergency has occurred or may occur in any part or district
of Singapore, the Minister may declare that a state of civil defence
emergency exists in that part or district.

 (2) The Minister must immediately give public notice by such
means of communication as are available of every declaration of a
state of civil defence emergency made under subsection (1) and the
declaration must be published in the Gazette as soon as possible.

 (3) A state of civil defence emergency for any part or district in
Singapore terminates on the expiry of the seventh day from the time
the state of civil defence emergency is in force.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (4) The Minister may, with the approval of the President, extend the
duration of a state of civil defence emergency for such further period
or periods as the Minister thinks fit.

Special powers during emergency

 103.—(1) During a state of emergency or a state of civil defence
emergency, the Commissioner, a member or a police officer may, if
the action authorised by this section appears to him or her to be
necessary for the carrying out of civil defence measures or for the
preservation of human life or property —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
65  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) direct any person to render any assistance to the Force to
         save life in immediate danger;

    (b) direct the evacuation of any area, building or place, and the
         exclusion of persons from any area, building or place and
         in the exercise of that power may remove or cause to be
         removed a person who does not comply with a direction to
         evacuate or a person who enters or is found in any area,
         building or place in respect of which a direction for the
         exclusion of persons has been given;

    (c) remove from any place, vehicle, structure or thing that is
        impeding civil defence operations and to facilitate its
        removal may use such force as is reasonably necessary or
        may break into any such vehicle;

    (d) enter upon and, if necessary, break into any place, building,
         premises or land where he or she believes on reasonable
         grounds that it is necessary to do so for saving life or
         preventing injury or rescuing injured or endangered
         persons or for facilitating the carrying out of any urgent
         measures in respect of the relief of suffering and distress;
         and

       (e) restrict the movement of persons and close to traffic any
            road, street, path, private street, private way, service lane,
            waterway, right of way or access way or other way or close
            any public place.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) Any person who renders any assistance under subsection (1)(a)
is entitled to fair and reasonable remuneration from the
Commissioner, such claim to be made in accordance with the
regulations and paid out of moneys appropriated by Parliament for
the purpose.

 (3) Any person who suffers loss of or damage to his or her property
by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1)(c)
and (d) is entitled to fair and reasonable compensation for such loss or
damage, such claim to be made in accordance with the regulations
and paid out of moneys appropriated by Parliament for the purpose.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    66

 (4) Any person who contravenes a direction lawfully given under
this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                  PART 12A

                      PUBLIC WARNING SYSTEM

Interpretation of this Part

 103A.—(1) In this Part —

      “owner” —

              (a) in relation to any premises comprised in a strata title
                   plan under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967,
                   means —

                     (i) in the case of a lot, the person who is registered
                          as the subsidiary proprietor of the lot under that
                          Act;

                     (ii) in the case of a common property, the
                          management corporation having control of
                          that common property, or the person
                          receiving any rent or charge for the
                          maintenance and management of that
                          common property; and

                    (iii) in the case of a limited common property as
                          defined in section 2(1) of the Building (Strata
                          Management) Act 2004, the subsidiary
                          management corporation established by that
                          Act having control of that limited common
                          property, or the person receiving any rent or
                          charge for the maintenance and management of
                          that limited common property;

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

              (b) in relation to a building in a housing estate of the
                   Housing and Development Board (called an HDB
                   housing estate), means —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
67  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (i) in the case of a flat, any owner of the flat as
        defined in section 2(1) of the Housing and
        Development Act 1959;

    (ii) in the case of the building’s common property
         in an HDB housing estate that is controlled,
         managed and maintained by a Town Council,
         that Town Council; and

    (iii) in the case of the building’s common property
          in an HDB housing estate that is not controlled,
          managed and maintained by a Town Council,
          the Housing and Development Board;

    (c) in relation to a subdivided building that is not
        mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b), means —

    (i) in the case of a lot, the person who is registered
        under the Land Titles Act 1993 as the
        proprietor of the fee simple, estate in
        perpetuity or leasehold estate of that lot; and

    (ii) in the case of the subdivided building’s
         common property, every person who is
         registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 as
         the proprietor of the fee simple, estate in
         perpetuity or leasehold estate of a lot in that
         building, or the person receiving any rent or
         charge for the maintenance and management of
         the common property;

    (d) in relation to any premises which are not a subdivided
         building mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c),
         means any person who is registered under the Land
         Titles Act 1993 as the proprietor of the fee simple,
         estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of those
         premises; and

    (e) in relation to any other premises or building, means
        the person for the time being receiving the rent of the
        premises or building, whether on the person’s own
        account or as agent, trustee or receiver, or who would

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    68

          receive such rent if the premises or building were let
          to a tenant, and includes the person whose name is
          entered in the Valuation List prepared under
          section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960 as the
          owner of the premises or building, or a mortgagee in
          possession;

“relevant premises” means any building or part of a building but
   does not include —

          (a) a residential building not exceeding such height as
               may be prescribed; and

          (b) any other type of building that may be prescribed;

“working day” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or
   public holiday.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of this Part, the height of a building is the
distance, measured in a straight line on a vertical plane, from the
lowest point of the building at ground level to the highest point of the
building (including any structure fixed to the building).

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Provision of space to install prescribed civil defence emergency
devices

 103B.—(1) The Commissioner may by direction require the owner
of any relevant premises to provide, at the owner’s expense and
within such period as may be specified in the direction —

       (a) such space or facility within or on the premises specified in
            the direction; and

       (b) access to the premises,

as will substantially assist the Commissioner in installing a
prescribed civil defence emergency device.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Commissioner may give a direction under
subsection (1) even though the direction may prejudice the
contractual obligations of the owner or occupier of the premises,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
69  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

whether the obligation relates to a contract made before, on or after
1 February 2019.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) No liability shall lie against any party to a contract made before,
on or after 1 February 2019 for or in relation to, any breach of the
contract where the breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned by,
the compliance by that party with any direction of the Commissioner
under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) The Commissioner may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of a direction under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (6) Any owner who contravenes any direction under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

Power to enter premises for assessment, repair and
maintenance

 103C.—(1) The Commissioner may —

       (a) enter any relevant premises to assess whether the premises
            are suitable for installing a prescribed civil defence
            emergency device; and

       (b) enter any premises on which a prescribed civil defence
            emergency device is installed by the Commissioner to
            inspect or carry out works to repair or maintain the
            prescribed civil defence emergency device.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) The Commissioner must not exercise the power under
subsection (1)(a) or (b) in respect of any premises unless the
Commissioner notifies the owner of the premises of the intention to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    70

exercise a power conferred by that subsection not less than 5 working
days before the power is exercised.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) Despite subsection (2), where the Commissioner has reason to
believe that a civil defence emergency is likely to occur and urgent
repairs to a prescribed civil defence emergency device installed on
any relevant premises are needed, and —

(a) entry into those premises has been refused or such refusal
     is apprehended; or

(b) the Commissioner is, after reasonable efforts, unable to
     obtain the owner’s consent to enter the premises for any
     other reason,

the Commissioner may enter the premises to carry out such urgent
repairs to the prescribed civil defence emergency device at any time
and without giving the owner of the premises notice of the
Commissioner’s intention to do so.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) The Commissioner may, in exercising the power under
subsection (1)(a) or (b), take with the Commissioner any other
persons that may be necessary.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) The Commissioner may, in exercising the power under
subsection (3), do all or any of the following:

(a) take with the Commissioner any other persons that may be
     necessary;

(b) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
     the premises;

          (c) forcibly enter the premises and every part of the premises;

(d) remove by force any obstruction to the entry;

          (e) remove or demolish any fixtures or fittings in the premises
              if the removal or demolition is necessary for the carrying
              out of urgent repairs to a prescribed civil defence
              emergency device.

                                                                                                          [53/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
71  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

 (6) The Commissioner’s powers under subsections (1) to (5) may
be exercised by any officer or serviceman authorised by the
Commissioner (called in this section an authorised person), and
any reference to the Commissioner in those subsections includes a
reference to such an authorised person.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (7) Before entering the premises under subsection (1)(a) or (b), an
authorised person must produce, if so required —

    (a) the authorised person’s original identity card or such
         identification card as the Commissioner may direct to be
         carried by the person as proof of the authorised person’s
         identity; and

    (b) some duly authenticated document showing the authorised
         person’s authority.

                                                                                                     [53/2018]

Damage, etc., to prescribed civil defence emergency devices

 103D. Any person who wilfully removes, relocates, destroys,
damages or tampers with any prescribed civil defence emergency
device installed by the Commissioner shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

                                   PART 13

 TRAINING OF CIVILIAN POPULATION IN CIVIL DEFENCE

Civil defence training for civilian population

 104. The Minister may from time to time make arrangements for
the civilian population to be trained in matters of civil defence and for
the conduct of exercises for the purposes of civil defence.

Protection of civil defence volunteers

 105.—(1) For the purposes of the Government Proceedings
Act 1956, any civil defence volunteer acting or purporting in good
faith to be acting under any order or instruction given to the civil
defence volunteer by a member of the Force whilst participating in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    72

any civil defence measures or whilst receiving instruction in civil
defence is deemed to be the agent of and acting under the instructions
of the Government.

 (2) No act or default done or made by the civil defence volunteer in
good faith whilst participating in any civil defence measures or whilst
receiving instruction in civil defence shall subject him or her to any
personal liability.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), “civil defence volunteer”
means any person who has agreed to take part in civil defence
measures or receives instruction in civil defence organised under the
authority of the Commissioner.

                                  PART 13A

                   SERVICE OUTSIDE SINGAPORE

Definitions for Part 13A

 105AA. In this Part —

      “cross-border incident” and “incident management operations”
         have the meanings given by section 6(2) of the Cross-Border
         Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026;

      “cross-border incident site”, for a cross-border incident, means
         the premises mentioned in section 29 of the Cross-Border
         Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026 associated
         with the cross-border incident;

      “cross-border railway” means a railway that —

              (a) has a railway network with a terminus in Singapore
                   and runs to any part of peninsular Malaysia; and

              (b) is constructed under the Cross-Border Railways Act
                   2018;

      “cross-border train” means a train used for or in connection with
         providing a cross-border train service;

      “cross-border train service” means a passenger train service
         provided using a cross-border railway;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
73  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    “Malaysian incident management officer” and “Singapore
       incident management officer” have the meanings given by
       section 27 of the Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-
       location) Act 2026;

    “treaty” has the meaning given by section 3(1) of the Cross-
       Border Railways (Border Control Co-location) Act 2026.

                            [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

Minister may send members of Force outside Singapore

 105A.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (7), the Minister may —

       (a) on a request in that behalf being made by, or with the
            consent of, a government of a territory outside Singapore;

       (b) on a request in that behalf being made by a United Nations
            agency; or

       (c) in connection with any agreement or arrangement with a
            government of a territory outside Singapore,

order such number of members of the Force as to the Minister seems
expedient to proceed outside Singapore to carry out duties to respond
to and deal with a civil defence emergency taking place in such
territory.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (1A) The Minister may make an order under subsection (1) for the
purpose of enabling any member of the Force to carry on incident
management operations in any place in peninsular Malaysia where a
cross-border incident is occurring or has occurred, despite no civil
defence emergency taking place in such territory but subject to
section 105E.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (2) In making an order under subsection (1), the Minister must
specify the purposes for which the members of the Force are to carry
out duties outside Singapore or in any territory outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (3) The Minister must not make an order under subsection (1)
unless the Minister is satisfied that adequate provisions have been or
will immediately be made in the territory outside Singapore for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    74

proper carrying out of duties by members of the Force in that territory,
which may include provisions —

(a) that all members of the Force serving in that territory under
     the provisions of this Part must remain under the orders of
     their own commanding officers; or

       (b) that all members of the Force serving in that territory under
            the provisions of this Part must be conferred with the
            powers, duties and privileges of members of the equivalent
            civil defence force in that territory.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (4) The Commissioner may issue directions of a routine nature for
the deployment, command, control and information of members of
the Force ordered under subsection (1) to proceed outside Singapore
to carry out duties outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (5) Any direction under subsection (4) must not be inconsistent
with subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (6) All members of the Force ordered under subsection (1) to
proceed outside Singapore for service must comply with every
direction issued under subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (7) To avoid doubt, the Minister may order such number of
members of the Force as to the Minister seems expedient to carry out
duties in international waters, and this Part applies, with the necessary
modifications, to members of the Force serving outside Singapore
pursuant to such an order as it applies to members of the Force
serving outside Singapore pursuant to an order under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [14/2013]

 (8) No volunteer ex‑NSman or auxiliary member shall be liable to
serve or proceed on duty outside Singapore unless he or she first
consents to such service.

                                                                                                [32/2010; 53/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
75  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

Members of Force serving outside Singapore to remain subject
to this Act

 105B. Subject to section 105D, a member of the Force who is
temporarily attached to the forces of another territory, or otherwise
serving outside Singapore, pursuant to any order made under
section 105A does not cease to be subject to this Act by reason
only of the member being so temporarily attached, or being outside
Singapore.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

Jurisdiction during overseas service

 105C.—(1) Section 105D applies to any act done or omitted to be
done outside Singapore by any member of the Force while the
member is serving outside Singapore pursuant to any order made
under section 105A.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a person is deemed to be
serving outside Singapore pursuant to an order made under
section 105A from the time the person leaves Singapore to
undertake those duties until the time the person returns to Singapore.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

Offences and misconduct during overseas service

 105D.—(1) If any member of the Force to whom this section
applies does, or omits to do, any act outside Singapore (whether or
not the act or omission concerned constitutes an offence under the
laws in force in the territory where it took place) that if done or
omitted to be done within Singapore would constitute an offence, that
act or omission is deemed to have taken place within Singapore
unless —

       (a) the person is subject to the criminal jurisdiction of the
            territory in which the act or omission took place; and

       (b) the authorities in that territory —

               (i) are not subject to any obligation to cede jurisdiction
                   to the Singapore authorities in respect of that act or
                   omission; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    76

              (ii) are bringing criminal proceedings against the
                   member of the Force in that territory.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (2) No proceedings are to be instituted in any court against a person
for any offence if the person is one over whom jurisdiction is claimed
by virtue of subsection (1) unless the Public Prosecutor consents.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

 (3) If any member of the Force is alleged to have committed an
offence in respect of which the laying of information requires the
Attorney‑General’s consent under subsection (2), the member
concerned may be arrested and detained in custody or remanded in
custody or on bail, even though the Attorney‑General’s consent has
not been obtained to the making of such complaint in respect of that
offence, but no further proceedings may be taken until that consent is
obtained.

                                                                                                           [32/2010]

 (4) If any member of the Force to whom this section applies does, or
omits to do, any act outside Singapore, and that act or omission
would, if it occurred in Singapore, be a disciplinary offence for the
purposes of this Act —

(a) the person may be investigated and, if appropriate,
     proceeded against under this Act by way of disciplinary
     proceedings under Part 7 and punished, in the same manner
     as if the act or omission had occurred in Singapore; and

(b) for that purpose, this Act and the Civil Defence (Arrests,
     Searches, Investigation and Trial of Offences) Regulations
     apply to the person with any necessary modifications.

                                                                                                 [32/2010]

Extent of powers for incident management operations for
cross-border incidents

 105E.—(1) A member of the Force who is a Singapore incident
management officer carrying out incident management operations
relating to a cross-border incident may exercise the powers under this
Act as if to respond to and deal with a civil defence emergency, using
only force that is reasonable in the circumstances and subject to the
following modifications:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
77  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) section 4(2)(c), (e), (g) and (h) does not apply;

    (b) section 4(2)(d) applies as if the reference to public
         authorities includes a reference to Malaysian incident
         management officers;

    (c) section 101A(1)(b) applies as if the reference to a vehicle
        includes a reference to a cross-border train, vessel or an
        aircraft;

    (d) section 101A(1)(d) does not apply;

    (e) section 101A(1)(g) applies as if the reference to disposing
        of the thing seized were deleted and replaced with
        transferring custody of the thing seized to a Malaysian
        incident management officer if Malaysia is responsible for
        managing the cross-border incident under a treaty;

    (f) the incident management operations are carried out only —

    (i) during or immediately after the cross-border incident
        happening;

    (ii) within the cross-border incident site for that cross-
         border incident; and

    (iii) with the prior consent of the Government of
          Malaysia for the specific cross-border incident
          unless the cross-border incident —

    (A) is an explosion or a fire;

    (B) involved the release into the environment or
         exposing the public to any toxic chemical, any
         dangerous, hazardous, radioactive or harmful
         substance, or any biological agent, or toxin; or

    (C) requires search and rescue services or critical
         medical assistance or medical evacuation to be
         provided.

 (2) To avoid doubt, no member of the Force who is a Singapore
incident management officer may make an arrest when carrying on in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    78

peninsular Malaysia any incident management operations relating to
a cross-border incident.

                                                                               [Act 16 of 2026 wef 30/09/2026]

                                   PART 14

                                  GENERAL

Persons exercising power, etc., not to be obstructed

 106. Any person who assaults, obstructs, threatens, abuses, insults
or intimidates a person carrying out or performing his or her duties or
functions under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Wearing and possession of uniforms, etc., by others

 106A.—(1) A person who, when the person is not a member —

       (a) wears or possesses any SCDF uniform, or uses any SCDF
            insignia —

               (i) for the purpose of personating or representing
                   himself or herself as a member; or

              (ii) knowing that it is likely to cause any member of the
                   public to believe that he or she is a member;

       (b) uses the designation of a member or a rank of the Force, in
            connection with any business, occupation or
            employment —

               (i) for the purpose of personating or representing
                   himself or herself as a member; or

              (ii) knowing that it is likely to cause any member of the
                   public to believe that he or she is a member;

       (c) represents himself or herself, by word or conduct, to be a
            member for the purpose of personating or representing
            himself or herself as a member; or

       (d) wears or possesses any SCDF uniform, or uses any SCDF
            insignia, in connection with any business, occupation or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
79  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

    employment, for the purpose of falsely claiming,
    suggesting or implying —

    (i) that the person receives or is to receive, a fee,
        commission or other reward for providing
        professional or other services in relation to a
        matter being dealt with or to be dealt with by the
        Force;

    (ii) that the Force has agreed to acquire any goods or
         services provided by or on behalf of the person, or
         that those goods or services had previously been used
         or acquired by the Force; or

    (iii) that the person has the sponsorship or approval of the
          Force for any goods or services provided by or on
          behalf of the person,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (2) A member who wears an SCDF uniform or uses any SCDF
insignia otherwise than —

    (a) in the course of, and for the purpose of, exercising the
         functions of a member; or

    (b) for such other purpose authorised in writing by the
         Commissioner,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (3) It is a defence to any prosecution for an offence under
subsection (1)(a) or (2) if the accused proves, on a balance of
probabilities, that —

    (a) the accused had the express permission of the
         Commissioner to wear or possess the SCDF uniform or
         use the SCDF insignia, as the case may be; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    80

      (b) the accused wore or possessed the SCDF uniform or used
           the SCDF insignia (as the case may be) for the purposes of
           a public entertainment provided in compliance with the
           Public Entertainments Act 1958.

                                                                                                         [53/2018]

(4) A person (whether or not a member) who —

(a) manufactures any SCDF uniform or SCDF insignia
     otherwise than under an agreement with the Government;

(b) sells any SCDF uniform or SCDF insignia to a person who
     is neither a member nor otherwise authorised or permitted
     under subsection (3) to wear or possess the SCDF uniform
     or use the SCDF insignia; or

          (c) gives or provides, whether or not for a consideration, any
              SCDF uniform or SCDF insignia to a person who is neither
              a member nor otherwise authorised or permitted under
              subsection (3) to wear or possess the SCDF uniform or use
              the SCDF insignia,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (5) It is a defence to any prosecution for an offence under
subsection (4) if the accused proves, on a balance of probabilities,
that —

(a) the accused had reasonable grounds to believe and did
     make reasonable inquiries to ascertain that the person to
     whom the SCDF uniform or SCDF insignia was sold,
     given or provided was —

          (i) a member; or

          (ii) a person otherwise authorised or permitted under
               subsection (3) to wear or possess the SCDF uniform
               or use the SCDF insignia; or

(b) the accused had received from the person to whom the
     SCDF uniform or SCDF insignia was sold, given or
     provided, evidence purporting to show that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
81                     Civil Defence Act 1986                 2020 Ed.

    (i) that person was a member or was otherwise
        authorised or permitted under subsection (3) to
        wear or possess the SCDF uniform or use the
        SCDF insignia; and

              (ii) it was reasonable to and the accused did accept that
                   evidence as correct.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (6) An offence under subsection (1), (2) or (4) is an arrestable
offence.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (7) In this section —

    “SCDF insignia” means —

    (a) any item (being any insignia, emblem, logo, symbol,
         representation, device, badge of rank or other thing)
         that is generally recognised as pertaining to the Force
         or as being used by members;

    (b) any part of any such item;

    (c) any reasonable imitation of any such item, or part of
        such item; or

    (d) any insignia, emblem, logo, symbol, representation,
         device, badge of rank or other thing prescribed as
         being within this definition;

    “SCDF uniform” means the uniform of a member, and
       includes —

    (a) any part of such a uniform or any accoutrement of a
         member that is generally recognised as a part of the
         uniform or accoutrement of a member; or

    (b) any reasonable imitation of such a uniform or
         accoutrement, or part of a uniform or accoutrement;

    “sell” includes —

    (a) exchange or let on hire;

    (b) offer, expose, possess, send, forward or deliver for
         sale, exchange or hire; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    82

          (c) cause, suffer or allow any sale, exchange or hire;

“use”, in relation to SCDF insignia, includes —

          (a) driving on a public road a vehicle that has on it any
               SCDF insignia; and

          (b) using a reproduction or representation of SCDF
               insignia,

          but does not include wearing an SCDF uniform.

                                                                                                       [53/2018]

Offences by body corporate

 107. Where a body corporate commits an offence against this
Act —

       (a) the managing director, manager, or other governing officer,
            by whatever name called, and every member of the
            governing body thereof, by whatever name called; and

       (b) every person who manages or acts or takes part in the
            management, administration, or government of the
            business of the body corporate,

are deemed also to have committed the offence jointly with the body
corporate and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly unless he or she proves that —

       (c) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (d) he or she exercised such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her function
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

Protection of employment rights

 108. A person who, during a state of emergency or a state of civil
defence emergency, is absent from his or her usual employment by
reason of carrying out duties in connection with civil defence
measures in any capacity shall not be liable for dismissal, loss of
vacation leave, or other benefits to which he or she may be entitled

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
83  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

under the industrial award or agreement applicable to his or her usual
employment, by reason only of his or her absence on those duties,
whether or not his or her usual employer has consented to his or her
absence.

Members deemed to be public servants

 109. Members of the Force are deemed to be public servants for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Civil Defence General Orders and Standing Orders

 110.—(1) The Commissioner may from time to time make such
orders not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act to be called
Civil Defence General Orders as the Commissioner may consider
necessary or expedient to provide for —

       (a) conduct and discipline and the regulation and carrying out
            of punishment;

       (b) classifications and promotions;

       (c) instructions and examinations;

       (d) inspections, drill, parades, training and exercises;

       (e) civil defence services and duties of every description and
            the manner in which they are to be carried out;

        (f) the institution and maintenance of common rooms and
            canteens;

       (g) the manner and form of reports, correspondence and other
            records; and

       (h) any other matters that may be necessary and expedient for
            rendering the Force efficient in the discharge of its duties
            and for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

 (2) A commanding officer may issue orders of a routine nature to be
called Standing Orders and any directives not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or the Civil Defence General Orders for the
control, direction and information of the members of the Force in his
or her command.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    84

 (3) It is not necessary to publish any Civil Defence General Orders,
Standing Orders or directives in the Gazette.

Compensation for personal injury

 111. The Government shall be liable to pay compensation in respect
of the loss of life of, or injury to, a person that occurs while that
person is —

       (a) engaged in civil defence measures under the authority of
            the Commissioner; or

       (b) participating in training for civil defence measures under
            the control of the Commissioner or a person acting under
            the authority of the Commissioner,

at the rates prescribed by the regulations and paid out of the Pension
Fund established by the Pension Fund Act 1995.

Protection from liability

 112. No action or proceeding shall lie or be brought against the
Government, any officer or employee of the Government, a member
of the Force or any other person acting under any direction given or
purported to be given under this Act in respect of anything done or
omitted to be done in good faith under and for the purposes of this Act
during a state of civil defence emergency or a state of emergency.

Mobilisation of ex-NSmen or auxiliary members

 113.—(1) During a state of emergency or a state of civil defence
emergency, the Minister may by declaration mobilise all or any of the
following for continuous full‑time service:

(a) volunteer ex‑NSmen;

(b) auxiliary members.

                                                                    [53/2018]

 (2) A declaration under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette as soon as possible.

 (3) Whenever a volunteer ex‑NSman or an auxiliary member is
mobilised for continuous full‑time service, such member is bound to
render continuous full‑time service for such period as the Minister

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
85  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    2020 Ed.

directs until the publication of a declaration in the Gazette notifying
that the employment of volunteer ex‑NSmen or auxiliary members on
continuous full‑time service is no longer required.

                                                                                                           [53/2018]

 (4) Auxiliary members mobilised for continuous full‑time service
are to be paid such salaries and allowances as are prescribed or
provided for by regulations.

Section 14 of Government Proceedings Act 1956 applies to
Force

 114. Section 14 of the Government Proceedings Act 1956 applies to
members of the Force including any person serving as an auxiliary
member of the Force.

Regulations

 115.—(1) The Minister may make regulations, not inconsistent
with this Act, for carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may provide for
all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the manner in which, and conditions subject to which,
            persons are to be enlisted in the Force;

       (b) the administration and organisation of the Force;

       (c) ranks of officers and servicemen;

       (d) the suspension from duty of members suspected of
            committing a service offence or an offence under any
            other written law;

       (e) the practice and procedure to be adopted by disciplinary
            officers when dealing with charges of service offences
            under this Act;

        (f) detention barracks for members of the Force sentenced to
            detention;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Act 1986                                    86

(g) the classification, treatment, employment, discipline and
     control of members serving sentences of detention or in
     custody;

(h) the establishment and administration of any association for
     the welfare of members and the control of the funds of any
     such association and the collection from members thereof
     of subscriptions thereto;

          (i) the reimbursement for or payment to members;

          (j) the payment of compensation in respect of death and
              physical injury suffered by any member of the Force or by
              a member of the public in the course of being trained in
              civil defence measures or taking part in civil defence
              measures or drills;

          (k) the assessment and payment of remuneration for work
              done and services rendered and compensation payable in
              respect of loss of or damage to property in consequence of
              the exercise of the powers conferred by or under this Act
              including the determination of objections made against the
              assessment of such remuneration or compensation;

          (l) the administration of the Fund;

(m) the convening of boards of inquiry;

(n) the instruction of members of the public in civil defence
     and, if necessary, to equip them for the purposes of civil
     defence;

(o) the provision, storage and maintenance of essential
     foodstuff and equipment for the purposes of civil defence;

(p) prescribing anything which may be prescribed.

                                                                                     [32/2010; 53/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                       CIVIL DEFENCE ACT 1986

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
               CIVIL DEFENCE ORDINANCE, 1951

                     (ORDINANCE 19 OF 1951)

1. Ordinance 19 of 1951 — Civil Defence Ordinance, 1951

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 103/1951

First and Second Readings : 24 April 1951

Notice of Amendments  : 24 April 1951

Third Reading         : 24 April 1951

Commencement          : 26 May 1951

2. 1955 Revised Edition — Civil Defence Ordinance (Chapter 73)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

3. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                      ii

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

4. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

5. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

                                 PART 2
             LIGHTING CONTROL ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 74, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

6. Act 4 of 1938 — Lighting Control Ordinance, 1938

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3591/1937

First Reading         : 15 December 1937

Second Reading        : 14 February 1938

Notice of Amendments  : 14 February 1938

Third Reading         : 14 February 1938

Commencement          : 7 March 1938

7. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 87 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                            item 87 of the Schedule)

8. 1955 Revised Edition — Lighting Control Ordinance (Chapter 74)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

9. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               iii

                                    PART 3
                          CIVIL DEFENCE ACT
             (CHAPTER 228, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

10. M. Ordinance 38 of 1951 — Civil Defence Ordinance, 1951

Commencement   : 24 March 1952

Application    : 20 May 1965

Note: This Ordinance was extended to Singapore with modifications by the
        Modification of Laws (Civil Defence) (Extension to Borneo States and
        Singapore) Order, 1965 (L.N. 201/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 91/1965))
        with effect from 20 May 1965.

11. L.N. 201/1965 (G.N. Sp. No. S 91/1965) — Modification of Laws (Civil
                                                            Defence) (Extension to
                                                            Borneo States and
                                                            Singapore) Order, 1965

Commencement   : 20 May 1965

Note: This Order repealed the Civil Defence Ordinance
        (Chapter 73, 1955 Revised Edition) and extended the Federation of
        Malaya Civil Defence Ordinance, 1951 (M. Ordinance 38 of 1951)
        with modifications to Singapore.

12. 1970 Revised Edition — Civil Defence Act (Chapter 228)

Operation      : 31 July 1971

Note: This Revised Edition incorporated the Lighting Control Ordinance
        (Chapter 74, 1955 Revised Edition).

                            PART 4
               CIVIL DEFENCE ACT 1986
               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

13. Act 29 of 1986 — Civil Defence Act 1986

Bill           : 23/1986

First Reading  : 25 August 1986

Second and Third Readings : 22 September 1986

Commencement   : 14 November 1986

14. 1985 Revised Edition — Civil Defence Act (Chapter 42)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
                iv

15. Act 39 of 1993 — Fire Safety Act 1993
     (Amendments made by section 62(6) read with paragraph 1 of the
     Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill            : 31/1993

First Reading   : 12 October 1993

Second and Third Readings : 10 November 1993

Commencement    : 29 April 1994 (section 62(6) read with
                      paragraph 1 of the Second Schedule)

16. Act 19 of 1994 — Enlistment (Amendment) Act 1994
     (Amendments made by section 4 read with paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 21/1994

First Reading   : 25 July 1994

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 1994

Commencement    : 1 December 1994 (section 4 read with
                      paragraph 1 of the Schedule)

17. Act 8 of 1995 — Pension Fund Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 18(1)(a) of the above Act)

Bill            : 2/1995

First Reading   : 23 January 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 1995

Commencement    : 1 April 1995 (section 18(1)(a))

18. 2001 Revised Edition — Civil Defence Act (Chapter 42)

Operation       : 31 July 2001

19. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 17 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 17 of the Sixth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               v

20. Act 32 of 2010 — Civil Defence (Amendment) Act 2010

Bill           : 27/2010

First Reading  : 18 October 2010

Second and Third Readings : 22 November 2010

Commencement   : 1 February 2011

21. Act 14 of 2013 — Fire Safety (Amendment) Act 2013
     (Amendments made by section 58 of the above Act)

Bill           : 1/2013

First Reading  : 14 January 2013

Second and Third Readings : 8 April 2013

Commencement   : 1 September 2013 (section 58)

22. Act 53 of 2018 — Civil Defence and Other Matters Act 2018
     (Amendments made by Part 1 of the above Act)

Bill           : 44/2018

First Reading  : 1 October 2018

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 2018

Commencement   : 1 February 2019 (Part 1 except
                     sections 11, 13 to 17 and 22)
                     13 May 2019 (sections 11, 13 to 17
                     and 22)

23. 2020 Revised Edition — Civil Defence Act 1986

Operation      : 31 December 2021

24. Act 24 of 2022 — Singapore Armed Forces and Other Matters Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 15/2022

First Reading  : 4 July 2022

Second and Third Readings : 2 August 2022

Commencement   : 28 October 2022

25. Act 12 of 2023 — Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2023

First Reading  : 24 February 2023

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
               vi

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2023

Commencement   : 1 June 2024

26. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill           : 10/2020

First Reading  : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement   : 1 October 2025

27. Act 9 of 2026 — Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale)
                           (Amendment) and Other Matters Act 2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2026

First Reading  : 12 February 2026

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2026

Commencement   : 1 May 2026

28. Act 16 of 2026 — Cross-Border Railways (Border Control Co-location)
                             Act 2026

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 May 2026

Commencement   : 30 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
.                                 vii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          COMPARATIVE TABLE
        CIVIL DEFENCE ACT 1986

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2001 Ed.
                  18—(1A)
18—(2)
   (3)               (1B)
   (4)               (2)
   (5)               (3)
   (6)               (4)
                  19—(2) [Deleted by Act 32 of 2010]
—                    (3)
19—(2)               (4)
                     (5)
   (3)            75—(1A)
   (4)               (2)
75—(2)               (3)
   (3)               (4)
   (4)               (5)
   (5)               (6)
   (6)            76—(1A)
   (7)               (2)
76—(2)            81—(1) [Deleted by Act 53 of 2018]
   (3)               (2) [Deleted by Act 53 of 2018]
—                    (3)
—                    (4)
81—(1)               (5)
   (2)               (6)
   (3)               (7)
   (4)
   (5)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
          2020 Ed.  ii

   (6)                                 2001 Ed.
   (7)                   (8)
105A—(7)                 (9)
   (8)               105A—(6A)
                         (7)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 30/9/2026
