THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS
                               ACT 2009

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

Preservation of Monuments
           Act 2009

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

    FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF BOARD UNDER THIS ACT

3. Board to administer Act
4. Functions of Board under this Act
5. Powers of Board under this Act
6. Directions by Minister
7. Appointment of National Monuments Advisory Committee

                                        PART 3

       APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR AND OTHER OFFICERS

 8. Appointment of Director of National Monuments
 9. Appointment of Monument Inspectors
10. Public servants

                                        PART 4

         PROVISIONS FOR PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS

11. Power of Minister to make preservation orders
12. Saving for dwelling house
13. Duty to maintain national monument
14. Execution and costs of works required by preservation notice
15. Control over work
16. Power to require information about activities affecting national

         monument or proposed national monument

                                                      1

                                                                                          31.12.2021
         Preservation of Monuments

2        Act 2009                                  2020 Ed.

Section  Non-compliance with information notice
   17.   Enforcement notice
   18.   Appeal to Minister against enforcement notice
   19.   Non-compliance with enforcement notice
   20.   Injunctions
   21.   Defacing, damaging or interfering with national monuments or
   22.   proposed national monuments
         Interface with other laws and statutory authorities
   22A.

                                           PART 5

           TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

   23. Interpretation of this Part
   24. Transfer of property, assets and liabilities to National Heritage

            Board
   25. Existing contracts
   26. No breach or default because of transfer

                                           PART 6

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   27. Powers of entry and enforcement
   28. Powers of arrest
   29. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   30. Jurisdiction of court
   31. Composition of offences
   32. General exemption
   33. Authentication of documents
   34. Service of documents
   35. Regulations
   36. Saving and transitional provisions

An Act to provide for the preservation and protection of national
  monuments by the National Heritage Board and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                                  [1 July 2009]
             Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.     Act 2009                                   3

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Preservation of Monuments Act 2009.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Board” means the National Heritage Board established under
         the National Heritage Board Act 1993;

      “Director” means the Director of National Monuments
         appointed under section 8;

      “enforcement notice” means a notice issued by the Board under
         section 18;

      “information notice” means a notice served by the Director or a
         Monument Inspector under section 16;

      “inland waters” means any river, stream, reservoir, lake or pond
         (whether natural or artificial) within the limits of the
         territorial waters of Singapore;

      “land” includes any foreshore, site or underground space;

      “monument” means the whole or any part of —

              (a) any building, structure, erection, statue, sculpture or
                   other work, whether above or below the surface of the
                   land, and any cave or excavation;

            (aa) any site;

              (b) any site comprising the remains of any such building,
                   structure, erection, statue, sculpture or other work or
                   of any cave or excavation; or

                                                        31.12.2021
              Preservation of Monuments

4             Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

   (c) any site comprising, or comprising the remains of,
       any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or other movable
       structure or part thereof which neither constitutes
       nor forms part of any work which is a monument
       within paragraph (a),

   and includes any machinery attached to or forming part of a
   monument which cannot be detached from the monument
   without being dismantled;

   “Monument Inspector” means any person appointed under
      section 9 to be a Monument Inspector for the purposes of this
      Act;

   “national monument” means any monument that is subject to a
      preservation order and includes any land containing or
      adjacent to such monument that is specified in the
      preservation order under section 11(3);

   “occupier”, in relation to any monument or land, means the
      person in occupation of, or having the charge, management or
      control of, the monument or land, whether on the person’s
      own account or as an agent of another person, but does not
      include a lodger;

   “owner” —

   (a) in relation to any monument or land, means the
        person for the time being receiving the rent of the
        monument or land whether on the person’s own
        account or as agent or trustee or as receiver, or who
        would receive the same if the monument or land were
        let to a tenant, and the person whose name is entered
        in the Valuation List prepared under section 10 of the
        Property Tax Act 1960 as the owner of the monument
        or land; and

   (b) in relation to the common property of any subdivided
        building, means the person receiving any rent or
        charge for the maintenance of that common property;

   “preservation notice” means a notice issued by the Board under
      section 13;
                Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.        Act 2009                   5

“preservation order” means an order made by the Minister under
   section 11 placing a monument under the protection of the
   Board;

“proposed national monument” means a monument covered by a
   notice under section 11(7)(a) of the Minister’s intention to
   make a preservation order protecting the monument;

“site” means —

          (a) any open space;

          (b) any inland waters; or

          (c) an area of land (including any building, structure,
              erection, statue, sculpture or other work, vegetation,
              inland waters or physiographical formation, or any
              combination thereof) containing anything that
              evidences human activity, present or past,

          but excludes a site falling within paragraph (b) or (c) of the
          definition of “monument”;

“statutory authority” means a body established or constituted by
   or under a public Act to perform or discharge a public
   function, and includes a Town Council.

                                           [36/2021]

                                    PART 2
 FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF BOARD UNDER THIS ACT
Board to administer Act
 3. The Board is responsible for the administration and enforcement
of this Act.

Functions of Board under this Act
 4. Without affecting section 6 of the National Heritage Board

Act 1993, the functions of the Board under this Act are —
       (a) to identify monuments that are of such historic, cultural,
            traditional, archaeological, architectural, artistic or
            symbolic significance and national importance as to be

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Preservation of Monuments

6  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

   worthy of preservation under this Act, and to make
   recommendations to the Minister for the preservation
   under this Act of the monuments so identified;

   (b) to undertake, commission, sponsor or facilitate research on
        monuments which have been identified for preservation or
        which are being preserved under this Act;

   (c) to determine standards and issue guidelines for the
       restoration, preservation or maintenance of monuments
       under this Act and for the proper control, management and
       use of those monuments;

   (d) to determine the best method for the preservation or
        maintenance of any national monument, and to cause or
        facilitate the preservation or maintenance of the national
        monument in accordance with such method;

   (e) to protect national monuments and proposed national
       monuments in accordance with this Act;

   (f) to promote and stimulate public interest and support in the
       preservation or maintenance of monuments, and public
       knowledge, appreciation and understanding of national
       monuments;

   (g) to record, preserve and disseminate information relating to
        national monuments; and

   (h) to advise the Government in respect of matters relating to
        the preservation or maintenance of monuments.

                                                                                                    [36/2021]

Powers of Board under this Act

 5. Without affecting section 7 of the National Heritage Board
Act 1993, the Board, in discharging its functions under this Act, has
and may exercise the following powers:

       (a) advise on, supervise, control and require alterations,
            repairs, maintenance, renovations or construction of any
            kind to be made to any national monument or proposed
            national monument for the purpose of ensuring the better
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   7

          preservation of the national monument or proposed
          national monument;

(b) contribute by grant or loan towards the expenses incurred
     or to be incurred in the restoration, repair, maintenance or
     management of a national monument or proposed national
     monument to ensure its proper preservation;

          (c) publish or sponsor the publication of information and other
              works relating to monuments which have been identified
              for preservation or which are being preserved under this
              Act, or to any other matter concerning the functions of the
              Board;

(d) organise any activities and other programmes that the
     Board thinks necessary or desirable for the discharge of its
     functions under this Act;

          (e) carry out promotional activities or publicity in any form;

          (f) arrange for or provide professional and technical services
              in relation to the preservation of monuments, on any terms
              and conditions that may be approved by the Board;

(g) charge fees or commissions for any service provided by the
     Board under this Act;

(h) generally do all matters and things that may be incidental
     to or consequential upon the exercise of its powers or the
     discharge of its functions under this Act.

                                                                                                 [36/2021]

Directions by Minister

 6.—(1) The Minister may give any directions, not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, as to the performance of the functions and
the exercise of its powers by the Board and the Board must give effect
to those directions.

 (2) The Board must furnish the Minister with any information or
facilities for obtaining information with respect to its functions in any
manner and at any time that the Minister may reasonably require.

                                     31.12.2021
   Preservation of Monuments

8  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

Appointment of National Monuments Advisory Committee

 7. Without affecting section 8 of the National Heritage Board
Act 1993, the Board, on any terms that it may determine, may appoint
a committee, to be known as the National Monuments Advisory
Committee, to advise the Board in the discharge of its functions under
this Act.

                                    PART 3

   APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR AND OTHER OFFICERS

Appointment of Director of National Monuments

 8.—(1) The Board must appoint one of its officers as the Director of
National Monuments who is responsible for the performance of the
duties and functions assigned to the Director under this Act.

 (2) The Board may give any directions, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as to the performance of the Director’s duties
and functions and the Director must give effect to those directions.

Appointment of Monument Inspectors

 9.—(1) The Director may in writing appoint any public officer or
any officer or employee of the Board or of any other statutory
authority to be a Monument Inspector for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Every Monument Inspector must, when exercising his or her
powers and carrying out his or her duties under this Act, comply with
any general or special directions that may be given to him or her by
the Director or the Board.

 (3) Every Monument Inspector when exercising any powers under
this Act must, if not in uniform, declare his or her office and must, on
demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise of those
powers any identification card that the Director may direct to be
carried by the Monument Inspector when exercising those powers.

Public servants

 10. The Director and all Monument Inspectors are deemed to be
public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                                                  9

          PART 4

PROVISIONS FOR PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS

Power of Minister to make preservation orders

 11.—(1) Subject to subsection (7), the Minister may, after
consulting the Board, make a preservation order to place any
monument under the protection of the Board.

 (2) A monument which is subject to a preservation order and any
land containing or adjacent to the monument that is specified in that
preservation order is to be known as a national monument.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (3) A preservation order must specify the monument protected by
it, and extends to —

(a) all the land containing the monument; and

(b) any land adjacent to the monument which is in the same
     ownership as the monument and which the Minister is
     satisfied should also be protected under this Act in order —

          (i) to preserve the monument in its setting;

          (ii) to provide or facilitate access to the monument; or

            (iii) to provide for the exercise of proper control or
                  management with respect to the monument.

(4) A preservation order must —

(a) be published in the Gazette;

(b) take effect as from the date specified in the preservation
     order; and

          (c) remain in force until revoked by the Minister under
              subsection (6) or until it otherwise ceases to have effect by
              virtue of section 12.

 (5) A copy of the preservation order together with a notice stating
the effect of the preservation order must be served upon the owner
and the occupier (if the occupier is a different person from the owner)
of the monument and the land to which the order extends.

                                                        31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

10  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), the Minister may, after consulting the
Board, by order in the Gazette, amend or revoke a preservation order.

 (7) Before the Minister makes, amends or revokes a preservation
order, the Board must —

       (a) give written notice of the Minister’s intention to do so to
            the owner and occupier of the monument and any land
            adjacent to the monument which will be affected by the
            making, amendment or revocation (as the case may be) of
            the preservation order;

    (b) in the notice specify a reasonable period within which the
         owner and occupier may submit to the Board their
         objections (if any) to the making, amendment or
         revocation (as the case may be) of the preservation
         order; and

      (c) consider every objection received under paragraph (b) and
           make its recommendations to the Minister in relation
           thereto.

(7A) To avoid doubt, the Minister is not prevented from —

    (a) amending or revoking a preservation order relating to a
         national monument; or

    (b) making a preservation order in relation to a proposed
         national monument,

if no objection is submitted to the Board under subsection (7)(b) in
relation to that national monument or proposed national monument,
as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (8) A preservation order binds all subsequent owners and occupiers
of, and persons interested in, the land to which it applies and —

    (a) if it affects registered land, is regarded as if it were a
         statutory obligation under section 142 of the Land Titles
         Act 1993; and

    (b) if it affects unregistered land, is regarded as if it were an
         instrument affecting land under the Registration of Deeds
         Act 1988.
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   11

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (8), upon the Minister making a
preservation order under subsection (1), the Board must —

(a) if the preservation order affects registered land, notify the
     Registrar of Titles of the preservation order in accordance
     with section 142 of the Land Titles Act 1993 and the
     Registrar of Titles must then give effect to the preservation
     order in accordance with that section of the Land Titles
     Act 1993 as if the preservation order were a statutory
     obligation; and

(b) if the preservation order affects unregistered land, present a
     copy of the preservation order to the Registrar of Deeds in
     accordance with section 5 of the Registration of Deeds
     Act 1988 and the Registrar of Deeds must then register the
     preservation order under that section of the Registration of
     Deeds Act 1988 as if the preservation order were an
     instrument affecting land.

 (10) Any person who intends to transfer, assign, demise or
otherwise deal with any proposed national monument, monument
or land affected by a preservation order must give to the Board —

(a) not less than 2 weeks’ notice in writing of the intended
     transfer, assignment, demise or dealing (as the case may
     be); and

       (b) written notice of the completion of the transfer,
            assignment, demise or dealing within 2 weeks of the
            completion thereof.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (11) Any person who contravenes subsection (10) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

 (12) The Board must publish, in such manner as it thinks fit, a list of
all national monuments and proposed national monuments.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

12                         Act 2009  2020 Ed.

Saving for dwelling house

 12. Where a preservation order is made in respect of any structure
that appears to the Board to be occupied as a dwelling house and that
structure has not been vested in the Board or the Government (as the
case may be), then, if the structure is not acquired under the Land
Acquisition Act 1966 within the period of one year from the date of
the preservation order, the preservation order ceases to have effect in
relation to that structure.

Duty to maintain national monument

 13.—(1) It is the duty of the owner and the occupier of any national
monument to take all reasonable measures to ensure that the national
monument is properly maintained at all times in accordance with any
guidelines that may be issued by the Board.

 (2) The Board may by notice in writing (called a preservation
notice) require the owner or occupier of a national monument to carry
out, at his or her own expense and within the time specified in the
notice, any works for the preservation, maintenance or repair of the
national monument that may be specified in the notice.

 (3) The owner or occupier of a national monument may, within
14 days of service on him or her of a preservation notice or within
such longer period as the Minister may allow, appeal to the Minister
against the requirements of the preservation notice and the Minister
may —

       (a) dismiss the appeal;

       (b) allow the appeal unconditionally; or

       (c) allow the appeal in whole or in part and subject to such
            conditions as the Minister considers fit,

and may give any directions that the Minister thinks necessary to give
effect to the Minister’s decision on the appeal.

 (4) The Minister’s decision under subsection (3) is final.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), a preservation notice takes effect from
the date specified in the preservation notice despite any appeal under
subsection (3) that is pending.
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   13

 (6) If the Minister is satisfied that the execution of the preservation
notice may be delayed without resulting in any danger or damage to
the national monument, the Minister may, subject to any conditions
that the Minister thinks fit to impose on the appellant, direct that the
preservation notice does not take effect until the determination or
abandonment of the appeal.

 (7) Subject to any direction of the Minister under subsection (6),
any person who fails to comply with the requirements of a
preservation notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Execution and costs of works required by preservation notice

 14. If the requirements of a preservation notice are not complied
with to the satisfaction of the Board —

       (a) the Director or a Monument Inspector may, at any
            reasonable time, enter the national monument to which
            the preservation notice relates and cause any of the works
            specified in the preservation notice and any other works
            which are in the Board’s opinion necessary for the
            preservation of the national monument to be carried out;
            and

       (b) the expenses reasonably incurred by the Director or
            Monument Inspector in the exercise of his or her powers
            under paragraph (a) and any other reasonable expenses that
            may be incidental thereto are to be recoverable by the
            Board as a civil debt from the person who is, on the date of
            the preservation notice, the owner or occupier of the
            national monument.

Control over work

 15.—(1) A person must not, without the prior written permission of
the Board, and whether as principal or agent —

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

14  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

    (a) demolish, reconstruct, alter or make additions to a national
         monument or proposed national monument or any part
         thereof;

    (b) repair, renovate, repaint or redecorate a national monument
         or proposed national monument or any part thereof;

    (c) deposit any waste material on or pollute or flood the land or
        site on which a national monument or proposed national
        monument stands or any part thereof; or

    (d) do in relation to the national monument or proposed
         national monument or any part thereof or to the land on
         which the national monument or proposed national
         monument is located any other act that may be
         prescribed as an act to which this section applies.

                                                                                                     [36/2021]

 (1A) A person must not, without the prior written permission of the
Board, and whether as principal or agent —

    (a) clear, dig up, excavate or cultivate any plant or tree on or in
         a national monument or proposed national monument
         which is a site;

    (b) extract, mine, quarry or interfere with any earth, stone,
         clay, gravel, sand, shell, minerals, mineral oil, natural gas,
         or any thing or group of things that evidence human
         activity (present or past), found on, in or forming part of a
         national monument or proposed national monument which
         is a site;

    (c) destroy the relationship of a building and its environment
        that is incompatible with the character of the
        neighbourhood in a national monument or proposed
        national monument which is a site;

    (d) park or leave any vehicle or vessel on or in a national
         monument or proposed national monument which is a site;
         or
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   15

          (e) damage or enclose a national monument or proposed
              national monument which is a site,

knowing or reckless as to whether it is a national monument or
proposed national monument, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (2) In granting any permission required under subsection (1) or
(1A), the Board may impose any conditions that the Board thinks
necessary for the protection of the national monument or proposed
national monument, including —

(a) conditions requiring any works affecting the national
     monument or proposed national monument to be carried
     out in accordance with the specifications of the Board; and

       (b) conditions requiring the person to whom the permission is
            granted to restore the national monument or proposed
            national monument in accordance with the specifications
            of the Board in the event that any damage is caused to the
            national monument or proposed national monument as a
            result of the works.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (3) The Board may refuse to grant any permission as required under
subsection (1) or (1A) if it is of the opinion that the works proposed to
be done in relation —

(a) to a national monument or any part of a national
     monument, or to the land or site on which the national
     monument is located, would affect the character or
     appearance of the national monument in a manner which
     is inappropriate or unbefitting a national monument; or

(b) to a proposed national monument or any part of a proposed
     national monument, or to the land or site on which the
     proposed national monument is located, would irreparably
     alter the historic, cultural, traditional, archaeological,
     architectural, artistic or symbolic significance attached to
     it or any other condition of the proposed national
     monument before a decision whether or not the proposed

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

16  Act 2009                                    2020 Ed.

           national monument should be protected by a preservation
           order.

                                                                                                         [36/2021]

(4) Any person who —

    (a) contravenes subsection (1) or (1A); or

    (b) fails to comply with any condition imposed by the Board
         under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (c) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
        $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
        12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
        offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every
        day or part of a day during which the offence continues
        after conviction; or

       (d) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $200,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), the court before which a person is
convicted of an offence under subsection (4) may, in addition to
punishing the person in accordance with subsection (4), make an
order requiring the person —

       (a) at the person’s own expense and within the time that may
            be specified in the order, to restore the national monument
            or proposed national monument in accordance with the
            specifications of the Board; or

       (b) to pay to the Board a sum equivalent to the cost of restoring
            the national monument or proposed national monument.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (6) Where the person convicted of an offence under subsection (4)
is a body corporate (as defined in section 29(5)), a partnership or an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership), the court may
make the additional order mentioned in subsection (5) against any
person who, by virtue of section 29 is also guilty of that offence as an
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   17

officer or a partner (as the case may be) of the body corporate,
partnership or unincorporated association.

 (7) In determining the amount of any fine to be imposed on a person
convicted of an offence under this section, the court is to, in
particular, have regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or
appears likely to accrue to the person in consequence of the offence.

 (8) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (4), it is a
defence if the person proves, on a balance of probabilities, that the act
done or omitted to be done in relation to a national monument or
proposed national monument —

       (a) was done or omitted —

          (i) urgently or immediately for the safety of persons or
              property; and

          (ii) with all reasonable care to ensure that the act or
               omission would have no more effect on the character
               or appearance of the national monument or proposed
               national monument (as the case may be) than was
               necessary in the circumstances; or

(b) was done or omitted —

          (i) in good faith; and

              (ii) for the purpose of complying with or giving effect to
                   any order or requirement of the Government or a
                   statutory authority (other than the Board) given in the
                   performance of any function, the exercise of any
                   power or the discharge of any duty of the
                   Government or statutory authority (as the case may
                   be) under any written law other than this Act.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (9) Where the court makes an order requiring any person to pay a
sum to the Board under subsection (5)(b), the sum, if unpaid, is to be
recoverable from that person by the Board as if the sum were a
judgment debt due to the Board.

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

18  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

 (10) The Director or a Monument Inspector may enter, at any
reasonable time, a national monument or proposed national
monument or any part thereof in order —

    (a) to ascertain whether any works being carried thereon
         comply with the conditions imposed by the Board under
         subsection (2); and

    (b) to take any action and give any direction that the Director
         or Monument Inspector considers necessary for the
         protection of the national monument or proposed
         national monument.

                                                                                                     [36/2021]

Power to require information about activities affecting
national monument or proposed national monument

 16.—(1) Where it appears to the Director or a Monument Inspector
that there may have been a contravention of section 15(1) or (1A) in
respect of any national monument or proposed national monument,
the Director or Monument Inspector may serve a notice to that effect
(called an information notice) on any person who —

       (a) is the owner or occupier of the national monument or
            proposed national monument;

       (b) has any other interest in the national monument or
            proposed national monument;

       (c) is carrying out any operation or activity on the national
            monument or proposed national monument; or

       (d) is using the national monument or proposed national
            monument for any purpose,

and may by the information notice require that person to give
information as to —

       (e) the operation or activity that has been or is being carried
            out on the national monument or proposed national
            monument; or

        (f) the purposes for which the national monument or proposed
            national monument has been or is being used.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   19

 (2) In particular, the information notice may require the person on
whom it is served —

(a) to state whether or not the national monument or proposed
     national monument has been or is being used for any of the
     purposes specified in the notice, or whether or not any
     operation or activity specified in the notice has been or is
     being carried out on the national monument or proposed
     national monument;

(b) to state when any such use, operation or activity began;

          (c) to give the name and address of any person whom he or she
              knows has used or is using the national monument or
              proposed national monument for any purpose, or has
              carried out or is carrying out any operation or activity on
              the national monument or proposed national monument;

(d) to give any information he or she holds as to any written
     permission of the Board for any work or any reason for the
     written permission not being required for any work; and

       (e) to state the nature of his or her interest (if any) in the
            national monument or proposed national monument and
            the name and address of any other person known to him or
            her to have an interest in the national monument or
            proposed national monument.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (3) Any requirement of an information notice must be complied
with by giving the information in writing to the Director or a
Monument Inspector or to any officer or employee of the Board that
may be specified in the information notice.

 (4) The service of an information notice does not affect any other
power exercisable by the Board, the Director or a Monument
Inspector in respect of any breach of the provisions of this Act.

Non-compliance with information notice

 17.—(1) If, at any time after the end of the period of 21 days
beginning with the day on which an information notice has been

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

20  Act 2009                                               2020 Ed.

served on any person, such person has not complied with the
requirements of the notice, he or she shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (1) to prove that he or she did not know, and could not with
reasonable diligence have ascertained, the information required.

(3) A person shall be guilty of an offence if he or she —

    (a) makes any statement purporting to comply with a
         requirement of an information notice which he or she
         knows to be false or misleading in a material particular; or

    (b) recklessly makes such a statement which is false or
         misleading in a material particular.

 (4) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Enforcement notice

 18. If the Board is satisfied —

       (a) that section 15(1) or (1A) has been or is being contravened
            in respect of a national monument or proposed national
            monument; or

       (b) that a national monument or proposed national monument
            is, due to any operation or activity by any person, at risk of
            or is actually being destroyed, removed, damaged or
            altered,

the Board may, by notice in writing (called an enforcement notice),
require —

       (c) the owner or occupier of the national monument or
            proposed national monument;

       (d) the person who committed or is committing the
            contravention; or
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   21

          (e) the person who carried out or is carrying out the operation
              or activity,

to do all or any of the following within the time specified in the
enforcement notice:

          (f) to stop carrying out in relation to the national monument or
              proposed national monument any operation or activity that
              may be specified in the enforcement notice;

(g) to stop using the national monument or proposed national
     monument for any purpose that may be specified in the
     enforcement notice;

(h) to take, at the own expense of the owner, occupier or
     person given the enforcement notice, any protective,
     remedial or other measures in relation to the national
     monument or proposed national monument that may be
     specified in the enforcement notice.

                                                                                                 [36/2021]

Appeal to Minister against enforcement notice

 19.—(1) Any person aggrieved by any requirement of an
enforcement notice may, within 14 days of service on him or her
of the enforcement notice or within any longer period that the
Minister may allow, appeal to the Minister against the requirement.

 (2) Where an appeal is made under subsection (1), the Minister
may —

       (a) dismiss the appeal;

       (b) allow the appeal unconditionally; or

       (c) allow the appeal in whole or in part and subject to such
            conditions as the Minister considers fit,

and may give any directions that the Minister thinks necessary to give
effect to his or her decision on the appeal.

 (3) The Minister’s decision under subsection (2) is final.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), an enforcement notice takes effect
from the date specified in the enforcement notice despite any appeal
under subsection (2) that is pending.

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

22  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

 (5) If the Minister is satisfied that the execution of the enforcement
notice may be delayed without resulting in any danger or damage to
the national monument or proposed national monument, the Minister
may, subject to any conditions that the Minister thinks fit to impose
on the appellant, direct that the enforcement notice does not take
effect until the determination or abandonment of the appeal.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

Non-compliance with enforcement notice

 20.—(1) Subject to any direction of the Minister under
section 19(5), if a person on whom an enforcement notice has been
served fails to comply with the notice —

       (a) that person shall be guilty of an offence;

       (b) the Director or a Monument Inspector may enter the
            national monument or proposed national monument and
            take such measures as may be necessary to secure the
            compliance with the enforcement notice; and

       (c) the expenses reasonably incurred by the Director or
            Monument Inspector in the exercise of his or her powers
            under paragraph (b) and any other reasonable expenses that
            may be incidental thereto are to be recoverable by the
            Board as a civil debt from the person who failed to comply
            with the enforcement notice.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (2) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a) shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $200,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   23

 (3) In determining the amount of any fine to be imposed on a person
convicted of an offence under this section, the court is to, in
particular, have regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or
appears likely to accrue to the person in consequence of the offence.

Injunctions

 21.—(1) Where the Director or a Monument Inspector considers it
necessary or expedient for any actual or apprehended contravention
of the provisions of this Act to be restrained by injunction, the
Director or Monument Inspector may apply to the General Division
of the High Court for an injunction, whether or not the Director or
Monument Inspector has exercised or is proposing to exercise any of
his or her other powers under this Act.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) Where the Director or a Monument Inspector applies for an
injunction under subsection (1), the General Division of the High
Court —

       (a) is not bound to require an undertaking in damages from the
            Director or Monument Inspector; and

       (b) may grant any injunction that the General Division of the
            High Court thinks appropriate in the circumstances.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Defacing, damaging or interfering with national monuments or
proposed national monuments

 22.—(1) Any person who wilfully defaces, damages or otherwise
interferes with any national monument or proposed national
monument shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $30,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (2) The court before which a person is convicted of an offence
under subsection (1) may —

       (a) make an order requiring the person, at his or her own
            expense and within the time that may be specified in the
            order, to restore the national monument or proposed

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

24  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

    national monument in accordance with the specifications
    of the Board; or

       (b) order the person to pay to the Board a sum equivalent to the
            cost of restoring the national monument or proposed
            national monument.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (3) Where the court orders any person to pay a sum to the Board
under subsection (2)(b), the sum, if unpaid, is to be recoverable from
that person by the Board as if the sum were a judgment debt due to the
Board.

Interface with other laws and statutory authorities

 22A. Nothing in Part 4 applies to prevent or restrict or render
unlawful the Government or a statutory authority (other than the
Board) doing or omitting to do anything in the performance of any
function, the exercise of any power or the discharge of any duty, of
the Government or statutory authority, as the case may be —

       (a) under any written law other than this Act; and

       (b) in relation to a national monument or proposed national
            monument that is, or is on or within —

               (i) any State land; or

              (ii) any other land or site vested in or under the care,
                   control or management of the Government or that
                   statutory authority.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

                                    PART 5
    TRANSFER OF PROPERTY, ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Interpretation of this Part
 23. In this Part —

      “National Heritage Board” means the National Heritage Board
         established under the National Heritage Board Act 1993;
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   25

“Preservation of Monuments Board” means the Preservation of
   Monuments Board established under the repealed
   Preservation of Monuments Act (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised
   Edition) in force immediately before 1 July 2009.

Transfer of property, assets and liabilities to National Heritage
Board

 24.—(1) As from 1 July 2009, all movable and immovable property
vested in the Preservation of Monuments Board and all assets,
interests, rights, privileges, liabilities and obligations of that Board
are transferred to and vest in the National Heritage Board without
further assurance, act or deed.

 (2) Any immovable property to be transferred to and vested in the
National Heritage Board under subsection (1) is held by that Board
upon such tenure and subject to any terms and conditions that the
President may determine.

 (3) Every proceedings by or against the Preservation of Monuments
Board which are pending on 1 July 2009 may be continued,
completed and enforced by or against the National Heritage Board.

 (4) Every agreement relating to any of the transferred properties to
which the Preservation of Monuments Board was a party
immediately before 1 July 2009, whether or not of such nature that
the rights and liabilities thereunder could be assigned, is to have
effect as from that date as if —

       (a) the National Heritage Board had been a party to such an
            agreement; and

       (b) for any reference to the Preservation of Monuments Board
            there were substituted in respect of anything to be done on
            or after 1 July 2009 a reference to the National Heritage
            Board.

 (5) To avoid doubt —

       (a) any reference in this Part to property vested in the
            Preservation of Monuments Board is a reference to such
            property of that Board whether situated in Singapore or
            elsewhere; and

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

26  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

    (b) any such reference to rights and liabilities of the
         Preservation of Monuments Board is a reference to such
         rights to which that Board is entitled or (as the case may
         be) such liabilities to which that Board is subject, whether
         under the laws of Singapore or any country outside
         Singapore and includes rights and liabilities arising
         under loans raised by that Board.

Existing contracts

 25. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements
subsisting immediately before 1 July 2009 which the Preservation of
Monuments Board is a party continue in force on and after that date
and are enforceable by or against the National Heritage Board as if
the National Heritage Board had been named therein or had been a
party thereto instead of the Preservation of Monuments Board.

No breach or default because of transfer

 26.—(1) The operation of this Part shall not be regarded —

       (a) as a breach of contract or confidence or otherwise as a civil
            wrong;

       (b) as a breach of any contractual provision prohibiting,
            restricting or regulating the assignment or transfer of assets
            or liabilities; or

       (c) as giving rise to any remedy by a party to a legal
            instrument, or as causing or permitting the termination of
            any legal instrument, because of a change in the beneficial
            or legal ownership of any asset or liability.

 (2) The operation of section 24 shall not be regarded as an event of
default under any contract or other legal instrument.

 (3) Any provision in any existing contract, agreement, conveyance,
deed, lease, guarantee, bond, indemnity and other instrument or
undertaking to which the Preservation of Monuments Board is a party
or may be bound prohibiting or having the effect of prohibiting the
transfer of any property, rights, obligations or liabilities comprised in
the undertaking transferred under this Part is deemed by this Act to
have been waived by this Act.
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   27

          PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS

Powers of entry and enforcement

 27.—(1) The Director or a Monument Inspector may, at any
reasonable time without warrant and without using force, enter upon
any land or site for the purpose of —

(a) inspecting any national monument or proposed national
     monument thereon;

(b) investigating into any contravention or suspected
     contravention of this Act;

          (c) ascertaining whether any of the functions or powers
              conferred by or under this Act on the Board should or
              may be exercised; and

       (d) taking any action or carrying out any work authorised or
            required by or under this Act.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (1A) The power conferred on the Director or a Monument Inspector
under subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) includes the following powers:

(a) to examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in
     or on the land or site in question without involving any
     search of any premises, thing or person, or any seizure of
     any thing, in or on that land or site;

(b) to make a sketch, photograph or still or moving image, or
     an audio or a video recording, of the land or site in question
     and any thing in or on that land or site;

          (c) to make measurements of the land in question and any
              thing in or on that land;

       (d) to take samples of water, soil, vegetation or other similar
            substances from the land or site in question and any thing
            in or on that land or site for the purposes of analysis.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (1B) The Director or a Monument Inspector entering any land or
site for any purpose in subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) may be

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

28  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

accompanied by a number of other persons reasonably necessary for
that purpose.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (2) In addition to the powers conferred on him or her by this Act,
the Director or a Monument Inspector may, in relation to any offence
under this Act —

    (a) require any person whom the Director or Monument
         Inspector reasonably believes to have committed that
         offence to furnish evidence of the person’s identity;

    (b) require any person to furnish any information or produce
         any book, document or copy thereof in the possession of
         that person, and may, without fee or reward, inspect, copy
         or make extracts from such book or document; or

    (c) require, by written order, the attendance at such time and
        place as may be specified in the order of any person within
        the limits of Singapore who, from any information given or
        otherwise obtained by the Director or Monument
        Inspector, appears to be acquainted with the
        circumstances of the case.

(2A) However, where the Director or a Monument Inspector —

    (a) suspects on reasonable grounds that an offence under
         section 13(7), 15(4), 20(1)(a) or 22(1) has been or is being
         committed in relation to any land or site; and

    (b) is unable to enter, or is refused entry to, the land or site
         under subsection (1),

the Director or Monument Inspector may forcibly enter the land or
site without warrant for any purpose in subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or
(d), including by breaking open any outer or inner door or window
leading to the land or site and removing by force any obstruction to
the entry.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (2B) If the owner or occupier of the land or site is present when the
Director or a Monument Inspector seeks to enter the land or site under
subsection (1) or (2A), the Director or Monument Inspector (as the
case may be) must, before entering —
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                                           29

(a) declare his or her office to the owner or occupier; and

(b) show to the owner or occupier the identification card that
     the chief executive officer of the Board directs to be carried
     by the Director or Monument Inspector as proof of identity.

                                                                                                 [36/2021]

 (2C) If the owner or occupier of the land or site is not present when
entry under subsection (1) or (2A) to the land or site is sought, but
some other person who appears to be in charge of the land or site is
present, then subsections (1) and (2A) respectively, apply to that other
person as if he or she were the owner or occupier of the land or site.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (2D) However, subsections (2B) and (2C) do not apply if the land or
site in question is unoccupied at the time of entry.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

 (3) Any person who —

(a) refuses to give access to, or assaults, obstructs, hinders or
     delays, the Director or a Monument Inspector in the
     discharge of the Director’s or Monument Inspector’s duties
     under this Act;

(b) wilfully misstates or without lawful excuse refuses to give
     any information or produce any book, document or copy
     thereof required of him or her by the Director or a
     Monument Inspector under subsection (2); or

          (c) fails to comply with a lawful demand of the Director or a
              Monument Inspector in the discharge of the Director’s or
              Monument Inspector’s duties under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Powers of arrest

 28.—(1) The Director, a Monument Inspector or a police officer
may arrest any person whom he or she has reason to believe to be
committing or to have committed an offence punishable under this
Act if —

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

30  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

    (a) the name and address of the person are unknown to him or
         her;

    (b) the person declines to give the person’s name and address;
         or

    (c) there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and
        address given.

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained until his or
her name and address are correctly ascertained.

 (3) A person arrested under this section must not be detained longer
than is necessary for bringing the person before a court unless the
order of a court for his or her continued detention is obtained.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 29.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if he or she were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —
             Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.               Act 2009                              31

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of the officer or
     member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership within
   the meaning of section 4(1) of the Limited Liability
   Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of such a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with any modifications
that the Minister considers appropriate, to any body corporate or
unincorporated association formed or recognised under the law of a
territory outside Singapore.

                                        31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

32                     Act 2009  2020 Ed.

Jurisdiction of court

 30. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 31.—(1) The Director or any officer of the Board authorised by the
Director may compound any offence under this Act which is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding —

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence; or

       (b) $5,000,

whichever is the lower.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]

General exemption

 32. The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, by order in
the Gazette, either permanently or for such period as the Board may
think fit, exempt any monument or person or any class of monuments
or persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act.

Authentication of documents

 33.—(1) Where any notice, order or other document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on any person requires
authentication, the signature of the Director, a Monument Inspector
or any other duly authorised officer or employee of the Board or an
official facsimile of such signature appended to the notice, order or
document is sufficient authentication.
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                   33

 (2) In any proceedings under this Act, the contents of any such
notice, order or document are presumed to be correct until the
contrary is proved.

Service of documents

 34.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be served on any person may be served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of his or her family or household at his or her last
            known place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at his or her usual or last known place of
            residence or place of business in an envelope addressed to
            the person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            his or her usual or last known place of residence or place of
            business; or

       (d) in the case of an incorporated company, a partnership or a
            body of persons —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
                   of the company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business; or

              (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
                   company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order or document sent by registered post to any
person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly served
on the person at the time when the notice, order or document (as the
case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be delivered and, in
proving service of the notice, order or document, it is sufficient to
prove that the envelope containing the same was properly addressed,
stamped and posted by registered post.

 (3) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises may be
served by delivering it or a true copy thereof to some adult person on
the premises or, if there is no such person on the premises to whom it

                                     31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

34  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the notice,
order or document to some conspicuous part of the premises.

 (4) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises is deemed
to be properly addressed if addressed by the description of the owner
or occupier of the premises without further name or description.

Regulations

 35.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes of this Act and for any
matter which is required under this Act to be prescribed.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the purposes for which
regulations may be made under this section include the following:

       (a) to prohibit or to control and regulate the carrying out of any
            work on or in relation to a national monument or proposed
            national monument;

       (b) to prohibit or to control and regulate the use of a national
            monument or proposed national monument for any
            particular purpose;

       (c) to prohibit or to control and regulate the doing of any
            particular act in relation to a national monument or
            proposed national monument (including the placement or
            display of signs, banners, posters, buntings, flags or any
            other advertising material on a national monument or
            proposed national monument);

       (d) to provide for the preservation and protection of any
            fitting, fixture, artefact or other movable object that is
            found in, is attached to or forms part of a national
            monument or proposed national monument;

       (e) to prescribe additional duties to be imposed on the owner
            or occupier of a national monument or proposed national
            monument in relation to the preservation, protection and
            use of the national monument or proposed national
            monument.

                                                                                                           [36/2021]
          Preservation of Monuments

2020 Ed.  Act 2009                         35

(3) Regulations made under this section —

(a) may provide that any contravention of, or failure or neglect
     to comply with, any provision of such regulations shall be
     an offence;

(b) may prescribe the fine with which the offence shall be
     punishable, except that no such fine shall exceed for any
     one offence, the sum of $5,000 and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, the sum of $100 for every day or part
     of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; and

          (c) may prescribe the offences which may be compounded
              under section 31.

 (4) All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Saving and transitional provisions

 36.—(1) To avoid doubt —

       (a) every preservation order made under section 8 of the
            repealed Preservation of Monuments Act (Cap. 239,
            1985 Revised Edition) is deemed to have been made
            under section 11 of this Act;

       (b) any permission, approval, decision, notice, order (not
            being a preservation order) or other document prepared,
            made, granted, issued and any act or thing done under or
            pursuant to the repealed Preservation of Monuments Act
            (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised Edition) and valid immediately
            before 1 July 2009 is deemed to have been prepared, made,
            granted, issued or done under or pursuant to the
            corresponding provision of this Act and continues to
            have effect accordingly;

       (c) any application, request, objection or appeal made to the
            Preservation of Monuments Board or the Minister under
            any provision of the repealed Preservation of Monuments
            Act (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised Edition) on which the
            decision of that Board or the Minister has not been made

                                           31.12.2021
    Preservation of Monuments

36  Act 2009                   2020 Ed.

    immediately before 1 July 2009 is deemed to have been
    made and is to be dealt with under the corresponding
    provision of this Act;

    (d) the powers conferred on the National Heritage Board, the
         Director or a Monument Inspector by this Act may be
         exercised in respect of any breach, contravention or
         non-compliance of or under the repealed Preservation of
         Monuments Act (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised Edition) as if it
         were a breach, contravention or non-compliance of or
         under the corresponding provision of this Act, except any
         offence committed under the repealed Preservation of
         Monuments Act (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised Edition) before
         1 July 2009 is to be dealt with in accordance with the
         provisions of that Act as if this Act had not been enacted;
         and

    (e) any enforcement process or proceedings commenced,
        pending or existing immediately before 1 July 2009 in
        connection with any breach, contravention or
        non-compliance of or under the repealed Preservation of
        Monuments Act (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised Edition) may be
        continued and disposed of under the provisions of that Act
        as if this Act had not been enacted.

 (2) Insofar as it is necessary for preserving the effect of any written
law or document, any reference in the written law or document to the
repealed Preservation of Monuments Act (Cap. 239, 1985 Revised
Edition) is to, unless the context otherwise requires, be construed as a
reference to this Act.
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS

                                   ACT 2009

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
           PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS ACT
           (CHAPTER 239, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 45 of 1970 — Preservation of Monuments Act, 1970

Bill                  : 38/1970

First Reading         : 2 September 1970

Second Reading        : 4 November 1970

Notice of Amendments  : 4 November 1970

Third Reading         : 4 November 1970

Commencement          : 29 January 1971

2. 1970 Revised Edition — Preservation of Monuments Act (Chapter 315)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

3. Act 35 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) (No. 4) Act, 1973

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/1973

First Reading         : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 26 July 1973

Commencement          : 1 September 1973 (section 2 read with
                            the Schedule)

                                                         31.12.2021
               ii

4. Act 13 of 1978 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act, 1978

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 15/1978

First Reading  : 13 March 1978

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 1978

Commencement   : 1 April 1977 (section 2 read with the
                     Schedule)

5. Act 7 of 1983 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act, 1983
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 25/1982

First Reading  : 3 December 1982

Second and Third Readings : 4 March 1983

Commencement   : 15 April 1983 (section 2 read with the
                     Schedule)

6. 1985 Revised Edition — Preservation of Monuments Act (Chapter 239)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

7. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (33) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (33) of the Schedule)

8. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (38) of the Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (38) of the Schedule)
                      iii

                                          PART 2
                 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS ACT 2009

                              (2020 REVISED EDITION)

9. Act 16 of 2009 — Preservation of Monuments Act 2009

Bill                  : 9/2009

First Reading         : 23 March 2009

Second and Third Readings : 13 April 2009

Commencement          : 1 July 2009

10. 2011 Revised Edition — Preservation of Monuments Act (Chapter 239)

Operation             : 31 December 2011

11. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 121 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 121 of the Schedule)

12. Act 36 of 2021 — Preservation of Monuments (Amendment) Act 2021

Bill                  : 33/2021

First Reading         : 4 October 2021

Second and Third Readings : 2 November 2021

Commencement          : 30 November 2021
                             iv

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
