THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          INHERITANCE (FAMILY PROVISION)
                               ACT 1966

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
         2020 Ed.

Inheritance (Family Provision)
             Act 1966

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title and application
     3.  Interpretation
         Power for court to order payment out of net estate of deceased
     4.  for benefit of surviving spouse or child
     5.  Time within which application must be made
     6.  Effect and form of order
         Variation of orders

An Act relating to the disposition of estates of deceased persons and
  for other purposes connected therewith.

                                                         [16 September 1966]

Short title and application
 1.—(1) This Act is the Inheritance (Family Provision) Act 1966.
 (2) This Act shall not apply to the estates of deceased Muslims.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “annual income” means, in relation to the net estate of a
         deceased person, the income that the net estate might be
         expected at the date of the order made under this Act, when
         realised, to yield in a year;
      “court” means the General Division of the High Court or a
         Family Court;
      “death duties” means estate duty and every other duty leviable or
         payable on death;

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Inheritance (Family Provision)

2  Act 1966                        2020 Ed.

   “net estate” means all the property of which a deceased person
      had power to dispose by his will (otherwise than by virtue of
      a special power of appointment) less the amount of his
      funeral, testamentary and administration expenses, debts and
      liabilities and estate duty payable out of his estate on his
      death;

   “Registrar” means the registrar of the Family Justice Courts;

   “son” and “daughter”, respectively, include a male or female
      child adopted by the deceased by virtue of an order made
      under the provisions of any written law relating to the
      adoption of children for the time being in force in Singapore,
      Malaysia or Brunei Darussalam, and also the son or daughter
      of the deceased en ventre sa mere at the date of the death of
      the deceased;

   “will” includes any codicil or other testamentary document.

                                   [27/2014; 40/2019]

Power for court to order payment out of net estate of deceased
for benefit of surviving spouse or child

 3.—(1) Where, after 16 September 1966, a person dies domiciled in
Singapore leaving —

       (a) a wife or husband;

       (b) a daughter who has not been married or who is, by reason
            of some mental or physical disability, incapable of
            maintaining herself;

       (c) an infant son; or
          Inheritance (Family Provision)

2020 Ed.  Act 1966                                            3

(d) a son who is, by reason of some mental or physical
     disability, incapable of maintaining himself,

then, if the court on application by or on behalf of any such wife,
husband, daughter or son as aforesaid (referred to in this Act as a
dependant of the deceased) is of opinion that the disposition of the
deceased’s estate effected by his will, or the law relating to intestacy,
or the combination of his will and that law, is not such as to make
reasonable provision for the maintenance of that dependant, the court
may order that such reasonable provision as the court thinks fit shall,
subject to such conditions or restrictions, if any, as the court may
impose, be made out of the deceased’s net estate for the maintenance
of that dependant:

      Provided that no application shall be made to the court by or on
behalf of any person in any case where the disposition of a deceased’s
estate effected as aforesaid is such that the surviving spouse is entitled
to not less than two-thirds of the income of the net estate and where
the only other dependant or dependants, if any, is or are a child or
children of the surviving spouse.

 (2) The provision for maintenance to be made by an order shall,
subject to subsection (4), be by way of periodical payments and the
order shall provide for their termination not later than —

(a) in the case of a wife or husband, her or his remarriage;

(b) in the case of a daughter who has not been married, or who
     is under disability, her marriage or the cesser of her
     disability, whichever is the later;

          (c) in the case of an infant son, his attaining the age of
              21 years;

(d) in the case of a son under disability, the cesser of his
     disability,

or in any case, his or her earlier death.

                                           31.12.2021
   Inheritance (Family Provision)

4  Act 1966                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Periodical payments made under subsection (2) to any
one dependant shall not be at an annual rate which exceeds the
annual income of the net estate, and, where payments are so made to
more than one dependant in respect of the same period, the aggregate
of the annual rates at which those payments are made shall not exceed
the annual income of the net estate.

 (4) Where the value of a deceased’s net estate does not exceed
$50,000, the court shall have power to make an order providing for
maintenance, in whole or in part, by way of a lump sum payment.

 (5) In determining whether, and in what way, and as from what date,
provision for maintenance ought to be made by an order, the court
shall have regard to the nature of the property representing the
deceased’s net estate and shall not order any such provision to be
made as would necessitate a realisation that would be improvident
having regard to the interests of the deceased’s dependants and of the
person who, apart from the order, would be entitled to that property.

 (6) The court shall, on any application made under this Act, have
regard to any past, present or future capital or income from any source
of the dependant of the deceased to whom the application relates, to
the conduct of that dependant in relation to the deceased and
otherwise, and to any other matter or thing which in the
circumstances of the case the court may consider relevant or
material in relation to that dependant, to persons interested in the
estate of the deceased, or otherwise.

 (7) The court shall also, on any such application, have regard to the
deceased’s reasons, so far as ascertainable, for making the
dispositions made by his will (if any), or for refraining from
disposing by will of his estate or part of his estate, or for not making
any provision, or any further provision, as the case may be, for a
dependant, and the court may accept such evidence of those reasons
as it considers sufficient including any statement in writing signed by
the deceased and dated, so, however, that in estimating the weight, if
any, to be attached to any such statement the court shall have regard to
all the circumstances from which any inference can reasonably be
drawn as to the accuracy or otherwise of the statement.
          Inheritance (Family Provision)

2020 Ed.  Act 1966                        5

 (8) The court in considering for the purposes of subsection (1),
whether the disposition of the deceased’s estate effected by the law
relating to intestacy, or by the combination of the deceased’s will and
that law, makes reasonable provision for the maintenance of a
dependant shall not be bound to assume that the law relating to
intestacy makes reasonable provision in all cases.

Time within which application must be made

 4.—(1) Except as provided by this section or section 6, an order
under this Act shall not be made save on an application made within
6 months from the date on which representation in regard to the
deceased’s estate is first taken out.

 (2) If it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the limitation to
the said period of 6 months would operate unfairly —

       (a) in consequence of the discovery of a will or codicil
            involving a substantial change in the disposition of the
            deceased’s estate (whether or not involving a further grant
            of representation);

       (b) in consequence of a question whether a person had an
            interest in the estate; or as to the nature of an interest in the
            estate, not having been determined at the time when
            representation was first taken out; or

       (c) in consequence of some other circumstances affecting the
            administration or distribution of the estate,

the court may extend that period.

 (3) The provisions of this Act shall not render the personal
representatives of the deceased liable for having distributed any
part of the estate of the deceased after the expiration of the said period
of 6 months on the ground that they ought to have taken into account
the possibility that the court might exercise its power to extend that
period, but this subsection shall be without prejudice to any power to
recover any part of the estate so distributed arising by virtue of the
making of an order under this Act.

                                          31.12.2021
   Inheritance (Family Provision)

6  Act 1966                        2020 Ed.

 (4) In considering under this section the question when
representation was first taken out, a grant limited to trust property
shall be left out of account unless a grant limited to the remainder of
the estate has previously been made or is made at the same time.

 (5) For the purposes of sections 18(2) and 39 of the Probate and
Administration Act 1934 a dependant of a deceased person by whom
or on whose behalf an application made under this Act is proposed to
be made shall be deemed to be a person interested in his estate.

Effect and form of order

 5.—(1) Where an order is made under this Act, then for all
purposes, including the purposes of the enactments relating to death
duties, the will or the law relating to intestacy, or both the will and the
law relating to intestacy, as the case may be, shall have effect, and
shall be deemed to have had effect as from the deceased’s death,
subject to such variations as may be specified in the order for the
purpose of giving effect to the provision for maintenance thereby
made.

 (2) The court may give such consequential directions as it thinks fit
for the purpose of giving effect to an order made under this Act, but
no larger part of the net estate shall be set aside or appropriated to
answer by the income thereof the provision for maintenance thereby
made than such a part as, at the date of the order, is sufficient to
produce by the income thereof the amount of the said provision.

 (3) An office copy of every order made under this Act shall be sent
to the Registrar for entry and filing, and a memorandum of the order
shall be endorsed on, or permanently annexed to, the probate or letters
of administration under which the estate is being administered.
          Inheritance (Family Provision)

2020 Ed.             Act 1966             7

Variation of orders

 6.—(1) On an application made at a date after the expiration of the
period specified in section 4(1), or, as the case may be, of that period
as extended under section 4(2), the court may make such an order as
is hereinafter mentioned, but only as respects property the income of
which is at that date applicable for the maintenance of a dependant of
the deceased, that is to say —

(a) an order for varying the previous order on the ground that a
     material fact was not disclosed to the court when the order
     was made, or that a substantial change has taken place in
     the circumstances of the dependant or of a person
     beneficially interested in the property under the will or,
     as the case may be, under the law relating to intestacy; or

(b) an order for making provision for the maintenance of
     another dependant of the deceased.

 (2) An application to the court for an order under subsection (1)(a)
may be made by or on behalf of a dependant of the deceased or by the
trustees of the property or by or on behalf of a person beneficially
interested therein under the will or, as the case may be, under the law
relating to intestacy.

                                          31.12.2021
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           INHERITANCE (FAMILY PROVISION)
                              ACT 1966

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 28 of 1966 — Inheritance (Family Provision) Act, 1966

Bill                     : 8/1966

First Reading            : 23 February 1966

Second Reading           : 21 April 1966

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 1966

Third Reading            : 17 August 1966

Commencement             : 16 September 1966

2. 1970 Revised Edition — Inheritance (Family Provision) Act (Chapter 35)

Operation                : 1 March 1971

3. 1985 Revised Edition — Inheritance (Family Provision) Act
                                    (Chapter 138)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

4. Act 5 of 2014 — Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 11(9) read with item 15 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                     : 26/2013

First Reading            : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement             : 7 March 2014 (section 11(9) read with
                               item 15 of the Schedule)

5. Act 27 of 2014 — Family Justice Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 59 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 21/2014

First Reading            : 8 July 2014

Second Reading           : 4 August 2014

Notice of Amendments     : 4 August 2014

Third Reading            : 4 August 2014

                                                              31.12.2021
                                     ii

       Commencement                  : 1 October 2014 (section 59)

6. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 73 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

       Bill                          : 32/2019

       First Reading                 : 7 October 2019

       Second Reading                : 5 November 2019

       Notice of Amendments          : 5 November 2019

       Third Reading                 : 5 November 2019

       Commencement                  : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                                           with item 73 of the Schedule)

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
