THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              JURONG TOWN CORPORATION
                               ACT 1968

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                           2020 Ed.

      Jurong Town Corporation
                Act 1968

      ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                ESTABLISHMENT AND INCORPORATION
                                OF CORPORATION

 3. Establishment of Jurong Town Corporation
 4. Chairperson of Corporation
 5. Constitution of Corporation
 6. Direction by Minister
 7. Chief executive officer, officers and employees, etc.
 8. Appointment of committees and delegation of powers
 9. Protection from personal liability
10. [Repealed]

                        PART 3

      PROVISIONS RELATING TO CORPORATION

11.   Provision of working capital
12.   Functions and powers of Corporation
13.   Borrowing powers
14.   Loan conditions
14A.  Issue of shares, etc.
15.   Budget
16.   Approval of budget by Minister
17.   Supplemental budgets
18.   Accounts
19.   [Repealed]

                                                 1

                                                           31.12.2021
         Jurong Town Corporation

2        Act 1968                                                       2020 Ed.

Section  [Repealed]
   20.   Presentation of financial statements
   21.   [Repealed]
   22.   Bank account and accounting records
   23.   Payments to be made in accordance with budget
   24.   Transfer of sums from one item to another
   25.   Power of investment
   26.   Power to make rules
   27.   [Repealed]
   28.   [Repealed]
   29.   [Repealed]
   30.   Special provisions relating to sale of land by Corporation
   31.   Regulations
   32.   Obstruction of officer of Corporation
   33.   Transfer to Corporation of assets and liabilities of Economic
   34.   Development Board
         Corporation’s symbols
   35.   Furnishing of information
   35A.  Request for information from Inland Revenue Authority of
   35B.  Singapore and Urban Redevelopment Authority
         Preservation of secrecy
   35C.  Entry on premises to obtain statistical information
   35D.

                                           PART 4

             TRANSFER OF HDB INDUSTRIAL UNDERTAKINGS

   36. Interpretation of this Part
   37. Transfer of undertaking to Corporation
   38. Transferring employees to Corporation
   39. General preservation of employment terms
   40. Transfer of records
   41. Confirmation of undertaking transferred
   42. to 54. [Repealed]

                                           PART 5
              LIABILITY OF CORPORATION AT JURONG PORT

   55. Interpretation of this Part
   56. Application of this Part
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                                                      3

Section   Loss or destruction of or damage to goods other than
   57.    transhipment goods and goods accepted for storage
          Liability for loss under contract
   58.    Loss or destruction of, or damage to, transhipment goods
   59.    deposited with Corporation
          Force majeure, etc.
   60.    Cargo subject to general or particular average
   61.    Corporation not responsible for acts of stevedore or workman
   62.    Saving
   63.

                                        PART 6

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

64. [Repealed]
65. Conduct of prosecution
66. Service of notices
67. Composition of offences

         The Schedule — Symbols of the Corporation

An Act to establish the Jurong Town Corporation and for purposes
  incidental thereto.

                                                                  [1 June 1968]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Jurong Town Corporation Act 1968.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Corporation
         appointed under section 4;
      “chief executive officer” means the chief executive of the
         Corporation, and includes any individual acting in that
         capacity;

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Jurong Town Corporation

4  Act 1968                       2020 Ed.

   “common property” means so much of the developed land and
      all parts of the building as are not comprised in the flats in a
      building;

   “Corporation” means the Jurong Town Corporation established
      under section 3;

   “developed land” means any land of the Corporation upon
      which a building has been erected;

   “financial year” means a period of 12 months beginning on
      1 April in each year and ending on 31 March in the following
      year;

   “flat” means a horizontal stratum of a building or part thereof,
      whether the stratum is on one or more levels or is partially or
      wholly below the surface of the ground, which is used or
      intended to be used as a complete and separate unit for the
      purpose of human habitation or business or for any other
      purpose;

   “industrial property” means —

   (a) any building or other premises permitted by or under
        the Planning Act 1998 or any other written law for
        use solely for an industrial purpose, or for mixed
        purposes the predominant purpose of which is an
        industrial purpose;

   (b) any building or other premises used solely for an
        industrial purpose, or for mixed purposes the
        predominant purpose of which is an industrial
        purpose, being a use to which the building or
        premises were put on 1 February 1960, and the
        building or premises have not been put to any other
        use since that date; or

   (c) any land zoned in the Master Plan (within the
       meaning of section 6 of the Planning Act 1998)
       solely for an industrial purpose, or for mixed
       purposes the predominant purpose of which is an
       industrial purpose;
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                          5

“industrial purpose” means —

          (a) general industry, such as the manufacturing, altering,
               repairing, ornamenting, finishing, cleaning, washing,
               laundry, packing, canning, adapting, breaking up or
               demolishing of any article or part of it, the getting,
               processing or treatment of minerals, or the
               manufacturing or packing of goods or foodstuff,
               whether or not the processes carried on are dangerous
               or offensive;

          (b) light industry where the processes in paragraph (a) or
               the machinery installed for those processes are such
               as can be carried on or installed in any residential area
               without detriment to the amenity of the area by
               reason of noise, vibration, smell, fumes, smoke, soot,
               ash, dust or grit and are not dangerous or offensive;

          (c) warehousing, storage of goods or foodstuff, or freight
              and logistics operations;

          (d) research and development activities, business park
               activities or science park activities; or

          (e) any other activity of an industrial nature that the
              Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, specify
              to be an industrial purpose;

“Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore” means the Inland
   Revenue Authority of Singapore established under the Inland
   Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992;

“lease” includes an agreement for a lease;

“officer” includes the Chairperson, members and employees of
   the Corporation;

“owner”, in relation to immovable property, includes a person
   who has purchased a leasehold interest in any property sold
   by the Corporation and also includes a purchaser under an
   agreement for lease;

                                            31.12.2021
   Jurong Town Corporation

6  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

   “Urban Redevelopment Authority” means the Urban
      Redevelopment Authority established under the Urban
      Redevelopment Authority Act 1989.

                            [20/2013; 34/2017; 5/2018]

                                    PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT AND INCORPORATION
                            OF CORPORATION

Establishment of Jurong Town Corporation

 3.—(1) A body called the Jurong Town Corporation is established.

 (2) The Corporation is a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal with power, subject to the provisions of this Act,
to acquire, hold or dispose of property, both movable and immovable,
to enter into contracts, to sue and be sued in its corporate name and to
perform any other acts that bodies corporate may by law perform.

Chairperson of Corporation

 4. The Minister, with the President’s concurrence under
Article 22A(1)(b) of the Constitution, must appoint a Chairperson
of the Corporation who holds office, subject to the provisions of this
Act, for such period and on such terms as the Minister may determine.

Constitution of Corporation

 5.—(1) The Corporation consists of —

       (a) a Chairperson; and

       (b) not fewer than 4 and not more than 14 other members to be
            appointed by the Minister with the President’s concurrence
            under Article 22A(1)(b) of the Constitution.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (2) The Minister may, with the President’s concurrence, appoint
one of the members of the Corporation as Deputy Chairperson.

 (3) The quorum at all meetings of the Corporation is 4 or one-third
of the total number of members in office, whichever is the higher.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 7

 (4) The Chairperson or any officer authorised by him or her to act
on his or her behalf may call a meeting of the Corporation at least
once in every 2 months or as often as the Chairperson thinks fit.

 (5) The members of the Corporation, other than the Chairperson,
hold office for a period of 3 years or for such shorter period as the
Minister may in any case determine unless their appointment is
revoked by the Minister under subsection (10) or unless they resign
during their period of office.

 (6) If for any reason the Chairperson is absent or unable to act or the
office of Chairperson is vacant, the Deputy Chairperson or, in the
absence of both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson, any
member of the Corporation duly appointed by the members present at
any meeting of the Corporation may exercise all or any of the powers
conferred, or perform all or any of the duties imposed, on the
Chairperson under this Act.

 (7) The Chairperson or the person lawfully acting as Chairperson at
any meeting of the Corporation has an original as well as a casting
vote.

 (8) A member of the Corporation must not, at any meeting of the
Corporation, participate in any discussion relating to, and must not
vote in respect of, any business in which the member is interested,
and if the member does so the member’s vote must not be counted nor
is the member counted in the quorum present at such meeting.

 (9) The members of the Corporation must be paid out of the funds
of the Corporation such salaries, fees or allowances as the President
may determine.

 (10) The Minister may, with the President’s concurrence under
Article 22A(1)(b) of the Constitution, at any time revoke the
appointment of the Chairperson, the Deputy Chairperson or any
other member of the Corporation.

Direction by Minister

 6.—(1) The Minister may give to the Corporation any direction
under section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                   31.12.2021
   Jurong Town Corporation

8  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The Corporation must furnish the Minister with such
information with respect to its property and activities as the
Minister may require.

Chief executive officer, officers and employees, etc.

 7.—(1) There must be a chief executive officer of the Corporation,
whose appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018 and
Article 22A of the Constitution.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Corporation may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018 and Article 22A of the Constitution, appoint an individual
to act temporarily as the chief executive officer during any period, or
during all periods, when the chief executive officer —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Corporation may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, any other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Appointment of committees and delegation of powers

 8.—(1) The Corporation may appoint from among its own
members or other persons who are not members of the Corporation
any number of committees that it thinks fit consisting of members or
other persons or members and other persons for purposes which, in
the opinion of the Corporation, would be better regulated and
managed by means of those committees.
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 9

 (2) The Corporation may, subject to any conditions or restrictions
that it thinks fit, delegate to any such committee or the Chairperson all
or any of the powers, functions and duties by this Act vested in the
Corporation, except the power to borrow money or to raise loans by
the issue of bonds and debentures; and any power, function or duty so
delegated may be exercised or performed by that committee or the
Chairperson in the name and on behalf of the Corporation.

 (3) The Corporation may, subject to any conditions or restrictions
that it thinks fit, delegate to any employee of the Corporation all or
any of the powers, functions and duties by this Act vested in the
Corporation, except the power to borrow money or to raise loans; and
any power, function or duty so delegated may be exercised or
performed by the employee in the name and on behalf of the
Corporation.

Protection from personal liability

 9.—(1) No matter or thing done and no contract of any kind entered
into by the Corporation and no matter or thing done by any member or
employee of the Corporation or any other person acting under the
direction of the Corporation shall, if the matter or thing was done or
the contract was entered into bona fide for the purpose of executing
the provisions of this Act, subject the member or employee or any
other person acting under the direction of the Corporation personally
to any action, liability, claim or demand in respect thereof.

 (2) Any expense incurred by the Corporation or any member,
employee or other person so acting under the direction of the
Corporation must be borne by and repaid out of the funds of the
Corporation.

 10. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                    PART 3
           PROVISIONS RELATING TO CORPORATION
Provision of working capital
 11. For the purpose of enabling the Corporation to carry out its
objects and to defray expenditure properly chargeable to capital

                                                                                              31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

10  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

account, including defraying initial expenses, and for the provision of
working capital, the Minister may authorise payment to the
Corporation of such sums as the Minister may determine.

Functions and powers of Corporation

 12.—(1) The functions of the Corporation are —

       (a) to develop and manage sites, parks, estates, townships and
            other premises for industries and businesses in Singapore
            or elsewhere;

       (b) to provide facilities to enhance the operations of industries
            and businesses including social amenities for the
            advancement and the wellbeing of persons living and
            working in those sites, parks, estates and townships or
            otherwise;

       (c) to participate in overseas ventures and developments
            which the Corporation has the expertise to engage or
            undertake in; and

       (d) to collect, compile and analyse information of a statistical
            nature relating to industrial property in Singapore, and to
            publish and disseminate the results of any such
            compilation or analysis or abstracts of those results.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (2) In addition to the functions and duties imposed by this section,
the Corporation may undertake any other functions and duties that the
Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, assign to the Corporation
and in so doing, the Corporation is deemed to be fulfilling the
purposes of this Act, and the provisions of this Act apply to the
Corporation in respect of those functions and duties.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (3) Nothing in subsection (1) or (2) is to be construed as imposing
on the Corporation, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court to which it would not
otherwise be subject.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (4) The Corporation has power to do anything for the purpose of
discharging its functions under this Act or which is incidental or
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 11

conducive to the discharge of those functions and, in particular,
may —

(a) act in combination or association with other persons or
     organisations for the discharge of any of its functions;

(b) promote the carrying on of any activities for the discharge
     of its functions by other persons or organisations;

          (c) purchase, acquire or lease any land and premises required
              for the purpose of the discharge of its functions under this
              Act;

(d) sell or lease land and premises for the purpose of the
     discharge of its functions under this Act upon terms that
     the Corporation may determine;

          (e) provide technical, managerial and other specialist services
              for industrial, business and other development, and build
              up a corps of engineering, managerial and other specialist
              staff to provide such services;

          (f) prepare and execute proposals, plans and projects for the
              erection, conversion, improvement and extension of any
              building for sale, lease, rental or other purpose;

(g) provide and maintain housing accommodation including
     convalescent or holiday houses for employees of the
     Corporation, provide and maintain for those employees
     clubs and playing fields and provide educational facilities
     for them;

(h) grant loans to employees or to act as guarantor for loans
     taken by them, to enable them to purchase their own
     houses, furniture, fittings, home appliances and vehicles;

          (i) award scholarships or give loans to employees to obtain
              professional, technical or other training;

          (j) sell or lease flats, houses or other living accommodation
              and land for the housing of persons living and working in
              industrial and business sites, parks, estates and townships;

          (k) provide loans on mortgage at such interest as may be
              prescribed to enable persons, other than employees of the

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

12  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    Corporation, to purchase any flat, house or building which
    is used or intended to be used solely for the purpose of
    human habitation;

    (l) with the Minister’s written approval, form or participate in
        the formation of a company or companies or enter into any
        joint venture or partnership in Singapore or elsewhere;

    (m) with the Minister’s written approval, grant loans to any
         company in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiary
         companies holds any shares;

    (n) with the written approval of the Minister and the President,
         guarantee the repayment of loans given to any company in
         which the Corporation or any of its subsidiary companies
         holds any shares; and

    (o) provide and maintain adequate and efficient port services
         and facilities in Jurong Port.

Borrowing powers

 13.—(1) The Corporation may for the purposes of this Act raise
loans —

       (a) from the Government;

       (b) with the Minister’s approval and subject to the provisions
            of any written law, by any of the methods set out in
            section 14; or

       (c) from any other source directed by the Minister.

 (2) The Corporation must pay interest on those loans at such rate
and at such times, and must make such provisions for the mode and
time or times of repayment of principal as may be approved by the
Minister.

 (3) The Corporation may borrow by way of temporary loan or
overdraft from a bank or otherwise any sum which it may temporarily
require —

       (a) for the purpose of defraying expenses pending the receipt
            of revenues receivable by it in respect of the period of
            account in which those expenses are chargeable; or
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 13

(b) for the purpose of defraying, pending the receipt of money
     due in respect of any loan authorised to be raised under
     subsection (1), expenses intended to be defrayed by that
     loan.

 (4) Bonds and debentures of the Corporation issued before
1 October 1994 are guaranteed by the Government as to the
repayment of principal and the payment of interest at the rate
approved by the Minister.

 (5) Bonds and debentures of the Corporation issued on or after
1 October 1994 are guaranteed by the Government as to the
repayment of principal and the payment of interest at the rate
approved by the Minister if the President, acting in the President’s
discretion, concurs with the giving of such guarantee.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (1), the power to raise loans
includes the power to make any financial agreement by which credit
facilities are granted to the Corporation for the purchase of goods,
materials or things.

Loan conditions

 14.—(1) Where the Corporation is authorised to borrow money, the
Corporation may, subject to the Minister’s approval or direction, raise
money in any manner and, in particular, raise it by —

       (a) mortgage;

       (b) charge, whether legal or equitable, on any property vested
            in the Corporation or on any revenue receivable by the
            Corporation under this Act or any other written law; and

       (c) debentures, stocks, bonds or other instruments or securities
            issued by the Corporation.

 (2) The Corporation may, with the Minister’s approval or direction,
fix such rates of interest and such terms, conditions and periods to
secure the repayment of the sums borrowed as it thinks fit.

                                   31.12.2021
                       Jurong Town Corporation

14                     Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

Issue of shares, etc.

14A. As a consequence of —

    (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
         Government in the Corporation under this Act; or

    (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
         Government in the Corporation in accordance with any
         written law,

the Corporation must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may direct.

                                                                                                             [5/2002]

Budget

 15. The Corporation must in every financial year cause to be
prepared in a form to be approved by the Minister a budget to be
forwarded to the Minister not later than 31 January containing
estimates of income and expenditure of the Corporation for the
following year —

       (a) on capital account;

       (b) relating to the management and maintenance of industrial
            sites, housing and ancillary services; and

       (c) relating to the execution of its powers, functions and
            duties.

Approval of budget by Minister

 16.—(1) The Minister may approve or disallow any item or portion
of any item shown in the budget, and must return the budget as
amended by the Minister to the Chairperson.

 (2) The Corporation must present the budget which has been
approved by the Minister to the President for the President’s approval
under Article 22B of the Constitution.

 (3) The budget when approved by the President must be published
in the Gazette.
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.              Act 1968     15

Supplemental budgets

 17.—(1) The Corporation may at any time cause to be prepared a
supplemental budget to provide, subject to section 24(2)(d), for
unforeseen or urgently required expenditure containing —

(a) a revised estimate of the income for the current financial
     year;

(b) a revised estimate of the expenditure for the current
     financial year; and

          (c) a statement showing how provision is made to meet
              additional expenditure.

 (2) A supplemental budget must be dealt with in the manner
provided in section 16 for the annual budget.

Accounts

 18.—(1) The accounts of the Corporation must be kept by a chief
financial officer appointed by and responsible to the Corporation.

 (2) The chief financial officer must prepare in respect of each
financial year a statement of accounts in a form approved by the
Minister.

 (3) The chief financial officer must keep proper accounts and
records of the transactions and affairs of the Corporation and must do
all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of its moneys are
correctly made and properly authorised and that adequate control is
maintained over the assets of, or in the custody of, the Corporation
and over the expenditure incurred by the Corporation.

 19. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

 20. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

16  Act 1968                          2020 Ed.

Presentation of financial statements

 21.—(1) A copy of the audited financial statements signed by the
Chairperson, the chief executive officer and the chief financial
officer, and certified by the Corporation’s auditor, together with a
copy of any report made by the auditor, must be submitted to the
Minister not later than 8 September and to the President not later than
30 September in each year.

 (2) The audited financial statements and the auditor’s report must
be published in the Gazette.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 22. [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

Bank account and accounting records

 23.—(1) All moneys paid to the Corporation must forthwith be paid
into such banks as may be decided by the Corporation.

 (2) The accounting records of the Corporation must distinguish
between capital and revenue transactions.

 (3) Moneys received by way of loans must be shown separately in
the books and accounts and in the balance sheet of the Corporation.

Payments to be made in accordance with budget

 24.—(1) A payment must not be made by the Corporation unless
the expenditure is covered by an item in a budget and a sufficient
balance for the item is available.

 (2) Despite the absence of such provision, the Corporation may
pay —

       (a) sums deposited by contractors or other persons whenever
            by the conditions of the deposit any of those sums have
            become repayable;

       (b) sums collected and credited to the funds of the Corporation
            in error;

       (c) sums payable by the Corporation under any award of the
            Collector of Land Revenue or under any of the provisions
            of this Act or of any other written law relating to the
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 17

          acquisition of land for a public purpose or under any
          judgment or order of any court; and

(d) any expenditure incurred to secure the proper execution of
     the functions and duties of the Corporation under this Act
     which, in the opinion of the Corporation, cannot be
     postponed.

 (3) Provision must be made in a supplemental budget for any
payment made under subsection (2)(c) or (d).

Transfer of sums from one item to another

 25. Despite any of the provisions of this Act, the Corporation may
transfer all or any part of moneys assigned to one item of expenditure
to another item under the same head of expenditure in a budget
approved by the Minister and the President.

Power of investment

 26. The Corporation may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                                                           [45/2004]

Power to make rules

 27.—(1) Despite section 32, the Corporation may, with the
approval of the Minister, make rules prescribing anything that is to
be prescribed and generally for carrying out the provisions of this
Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Corporation may, with the
approval of the Minister, make rules for or in respect of all or any of
the following matters:

       (a) regulating the use and enjoyment of any common property
            or open space in any land vested in the Corporation,
            including —

               (i) restricting or prohibiting behaviour or activities on
                   the common property or open space;

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

18  Act 1968                                  2020 Ed.

    (ii) restricting or prohibiting the parking of vehicles on
         any common property or open space which is not a
         parking place within the meaning of the Parking
         Places Act 1974;

    (iii) waste disposal;

    (iv) safety or security measures; and

    (v) power for the Corporation to move, store or dispose
         of, or authorise the disposal of, objects or things left
         on the common property or open space and the
         passing of title to any objects or things on such
         disposal;

    (b) prescribing that any act or omission in contravention of any
         rule shall be an offence punishable by a fine not
         exceeding $5,000;

       (c) prescribing the penalty (if unpaid, to constitute a debt due
            to the Corporation and be recoverable as such) to be paid
            by the Corporation’s lessee or licensee for late payment of
            any moneys due to the Corporation under any lease,
            tenancy or licence.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (3) The Corporation or a duly authorised employee of the
Corporation who reasonably believes that any person has
committed an offence under any rules made under this section may
require the person to furnish evidence of the person’s identity, and the
person must furnish evidence of the required identity.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (4) Any person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, refuses to furnish any
         information required of the person by the Corporation or
         duly authorised employee of the Corporation under
         subsection (3); or

    (b) wilfully misstates such information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 19

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), a person is not excused from
disclosing any information required under subsection (3) on the
ground that to do so might tend to incriminate the person or expose
the person to a penalty.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (6) All rules made under this Act must be presented to Parliament as
soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 28. [Repealed by Act 20 of 2013]

29. [Repealed by Act 20 of 2013]

30. [Repealed by Act 23 of 1995]

Special provisions relating to sale of land by Corporation

 31. For the purposes of registering an assurance relating to the sale
by the Corporation of any land, the mortgage of the land in favour of
the Corporation or the reconveyance or discharge of the mortgage —

       (a) in the case of land registered under the provisions of the
            Registration of Deeds Act 1988, section 11 of that Act does
            not apply; and

       (b) in the case of land registered under the provisions of the
            Land Titles Act 1993 where a solicitor is not employed by
            the Corporation, a certificate of an officer authorised in
            writing in that behalf by the Corporation is sufficient for
            the purposes of section 59 of that Act.

Regulations

 32.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Corporation,
make regulations that the Minister may consider necessary or
desirable for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation
and, in particular, for any of the following matters:

       (a) the convening of meetings of the Corporation and the
            procedure to be followed at the meetings, to the extent not
            inconsistent with the Public Sector (Governance)
            Act 2018;

       (b) the provision of a common seal and its custody and use;

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

20  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    (c) the manner in which documents, cheques and instruments
        of any description are to be signed or executed on behalf of
        the Corporation;

    (d) the manner and terms of issue and redemption of bonds and
         debentures by the Corporation; and

       (e) generally for the exercise of the powers of the Corporation
            under the provisions of this Act.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Obstruction of officer of Corporation

 33. Any person who obstructs or refuses to give access to any
officer of the Corporation or any person duly authorised by the
Corporation in that behalf in the performance of anything which the
officer or person is by this Act required or empowered to do shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

Transfer to Corporation of assets and liabilities of Economic
Development Board

 34. As from 1 June 1968, all the lands, buildings and other property,
movable and immovable of the Economic Development Board
constituted under the provisions of the Economic Development
Board Act 1961, including all the assets, powers, rights, interests and
privileges as well as the debts, liabilities and obligations in
connection therewith or appertaining thereto that are specified by
the Minister by notification in the Gazette are deemed to have been
transferred to and vested in the Corporation without further
assurance.

Corporation’s symbols
 35.—(1) The Corporation has the exclusive right to the use of —
       (a) the symbols which are set out in the Schedule; and
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 21

(b) any other symbol that it may devise or adopt from time to
     time and to display or exhibit in connection with its
     activities or affairs.

 (2) The Corporation must publish the symbol mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) in the Gazette.

 (3) Any person who uses a symbol identical with, or which so
resembles, any of the Corporation’s symbols as to or be likely to
deceive or cause confusion, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) Nothing in this section is to be construed as authorising the
Corporation to use any symbol which any person has acquired the
exclusive right to use under the Trade Marks Act 1998 or otherwise.

                                                                                                              [46/98]

Furnishing of information

 35A.—(1) The Corporation or any of its employee authorised by
the Corporation in that behalf may, for the purpose of obtaining
statistical information in relation to industrial property in Singapore,
by notice require any person to furnish to the Corporation or the
employee so authorised, within the period specified in the notice, all
particulars or information relating to all matters that may be required
by the Corporation and that is within that person’s knowledge,
custody or control.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (2) Subject to subsection (6), a notice issued under subsection (1)
may be served in the following manner:

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                   at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
                   usual or last known address of the place of residence
                   of the individual;

             (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                   employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

22  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    post to, the usual or last known address of the place
    of business of the individual;

    (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
         place at the usual or last known address of the place
         of residence or place of business of the individual; or

    (v) by electronic communication, by sending an
         electronic communication of the notice to the last
         email address given to the Corporation by the
         individual as the email address for the service of
         documents on the individual;

    (b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
         partnership —

    (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
        secretary or other similar officer of the partnership;

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
         post to, the principal or last known place of business
         of the partnership in Singapore;

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
          principal or last known place of business of the
          partnership in Singapore; or

    (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
         electronic communication of the notice to the last
         email address given to the Corporation by the
         partnership as the email address for the service of
         documents on the partnership; and

    (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
        body corporate —
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 23

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
              officer of the body corporate or, in the case of a
              limited liability partnership, the manager of the
              partnership, or to any person having, on behalf of the
              limited liability partnership or other body corporate,
              powers of control or management over the business,
              occupation, work or matter to which the notice
              relates;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the registered office or principal place of
               business of the limited liability partnership or other
               body corporate in Singapore;

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number operated at the
                registered office or principal place of business of the
                limited liability partnership or other body corporate
                in Singapore or elsewhere; or

             (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
                   electronic communication of the notice to the last
                   email address given to the Corporation by the limited
                   liability partnership or other body corporate as the
                   email address for the service of documents on the
                   limited liability partnership or body corporate.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (3) If the person on whom service is to be effected has an agent
within Singapore, the notice may be delivered to the agent.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (4) Any notice issued under subsection (1) which is to be served on
the occupier of any premises —

(a) may be served by delivering it to an adult person on the
     premises or, if there is no such person on the premises to
     whom it can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by
     affixing the notice to a conspicuous part of the premises;
     and

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

24  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

       (b) is deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the
            description of the occupier of the premises without further
            name or description.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (5) Where any notice issued under subsection (1) and required to be
served on any person is —

    (a) sent by registered post to any person in accordance with
         subsection (2), it is deemed to be duly served on the person
         at the time when it would, in the ordinary course of post, be
         delivered, whether or not it is returned undelivered, and in
         proving service of the notice, it is sufficient to prove that
         the envelope containing the same was properly addressed,
         stamped and posted by registered post;

    (b) sent by ordinary post to any person in accordance with
         subsection (2), it is deemed to be duly served on the person
         to whom it is addressed on the day succeeding the day on
         which it would, in the ordinary course of post, be
         delivered;

    (c) sent by fax to the fax number operated at the last known
        place of residence or business or registered office or
        principal place of business in accordance with
        subsection (2), it is deemed to be duly served on the
        person to whom it is addressed on the day of fax
        transmission, subject to receipt on the sending fax
        machine of a notification (by electronic or other means)
        of a successful transmission to the place of residence or
        business or registered office or principal place of business,
        as the case may be; and

    (d) sent by electronic communication to an email address in
         accordance with subsection (2), it is deemed to be duly
         served on the person to whom it is addressed at the time of
         entering the information system addressed to the email
         address.

                                                                                                     [20/2013]
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 25

 (6) Service of any notice under this section on a person by
electronic communication may be effected only if the person gives as
part of the person’s address for service an email address.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (7) Any person who on being required by notice under this section
to furnish any particulars or information —

(a) wilfully refuses or without lawful excuse (the proof of
     which lies on the person) neglects to furnish the particulars
     or information within the time specified in the notice; or

(b) wilfully furnishes or causes to be furnished any false
     particulars or information in respect of any matter
     specified in the notice requiring particulars or
     information to be furnished,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (8) Nothing in this section authorises the Corporation, or any of its
employee authorised by the Corporation in that behalf, to require the
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore or the Urban Redevelopment
Authority to furnish to the Corporation or the employee so
authorised —

(a) any particulars or information in the possession of the
     Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore obtained in the
     performance of any of its functions; or

(b) any particulars or information in the possession of the
     Urban Redevelopment Authority obtained in the
     performance of any of its functions.

                                                                                                 [20/2013]

Request for information from Inland Revenue Authority of
Singapore and Urban Redevelopment Authority

 35B.—(1) For the purpose of obtaining data for statistical purposes
relating to industrial property in Singapore, the Corporation may in
writing require —

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

26  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore to furnish or
         supply to the Corporation any particulars or information in
         the possession of the Inland Revenue Authority of
         Singapore that it obtained in the performance of its
         function as an agent of the Government in administering,
         assessing, collecting and enforcing payment of property
         tax or stamp duties; or

    (b) the Urban Redevelopment Authority to furnish or supply to
         the Corporation any particulars or information in the
         possession of the Urban Redevelopment Authority —

    (i) that the Urban Redevelopment Authority obtained
        pursuant to any notice under section 44 of the Urban
        Redevelopment Authority Act 1989; or

              (ii) that was collected by the Research and Statistics Unit
                   before 1 September 1989 and transferred to the
                   Urban Redevelopment Authority under section 31 of
                   the Urban Redevelopment Authority Act 1989.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (2) Despite the provisions of the Inland Revenue Authority of
Singapore Act 1992 and the Urban Redevelopment Authority
Act 1989, the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore and the
Urban Redevelopment Authority, respectively, must furnish the
particulars and information required under subsection (1) within
the time agreed to between the Corporation and the Inland Revenue
Authority of Singapore or the Urban Redevelopment Authority, as the
case may be.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

Preservation of secrecy

 35C.—(1) A member, officer or employee of the Corporation must
not disclose any particulars or information which has been obtained
by the member, officer or employee of the Corporation in the
performance of his or her duties or the exercise of his or her function
under section 35A or 35B unless —

       (a) the disclosure is with the previous written consent of the
            person who furnished the particulars or information under
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 27

          section 35A or the person to whom the particulars or
          information relates;

(b) the disclosure is in the form of statistics which do not
     identify the person who furnished the particulars or
     information under section 35A or the person to whom
     the particulars or information relates;

          (c) the disclosure is to the Urban Redevelopment Authority
              pursuant to its request made under section 44A of the
              Urban Redevelopment Authority Act 1989;

(d) the disclosure is to the Chief Statistician pursuant to a
     direction under section 6 of the Statistics Act 1973 where
     the particulars or information is not exempted under
     section 6(2) of that Act from being so furnished;

          (e) the disclosure is for the purposes of any proceedings for an
              offence under section 35A(7) or this section or any report
              of those proceedings; or

        (f) the particulars or information is already in the public
            domain at the time of its disclosure.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (2) The Corporation may, in respect of any particulars or
information disclosed to any person under subsection (1)(a),
impose conditions as to the use of the particulars or information by
written notice to that person.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (3) Any person who discloses any particulars or information in
contravention of subsection (1), or who fails to comply with any
condition imposed on the person under subsection (2), shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to
both.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (4) To avoid doubt, nothing in subsection (1) authorises the
disclosure of any particulars or information mentioned in that
subsection to any officer or employee of the Corporation not
charged with any duties or function under section 35A or 35B.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

28  Act 1968                                         2020 Ed.

Entry on premises to obtain statistical information

 35D. Any officer of the Corporation authorised by the Corporation
in that behalf may, with such assistants as are necessary, at any
reasonable time, with the consent of the occupier of any land or
premises or after 6 hours’ previous notice to such an occupier, and
without involving any search or seizure of any premises, person or
thing, enter the land or premises for all or any of the following
purposes:

    (a) for or in connection with obtaining statistical information
         in relation to industrial property in Singapore;

    (b) for the purpose of verifying the accuracy or completeness
         of any particulars or information furnished by any person
         pursuant to a notice issued under section 35A(1).

                                                                                                     [20/2013]

                                    PART 4

      TRANSFER OF HDB INDUSTRIAL UNDERTAKINGS

Interpretation of this Part
 36. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “asset”, in relation to the transferor, means property of any kind
         (whether tangible or intangible, whether arising from,
         accruing under, created or evidenced by or the subject of
         an instrument or otherwise, and whether present, future or
         contingent) of the transferor on the eve of the transfer date
         and includes, without limitation —

              (a) a legal or equitable interest in real or personal
                   property;

              (b) a chose in action;

              (c) a security;

              (d) money;

              (e) intellectual property;

              (f) infrastructure, plant and equipment;
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.                Act 1968   29

          (g) records and information (including data) in any form;
               and

          (h) a right;

“excluded undertaking” means the assets and liabilities of the
   transferor which are determined under section 41(1) as assets
   and liabilities that must not be transferred to the Corporation
   under this Part;

“Industrial Properties Group” means the department of the
   transferor known as the Industrial Properties Group;

“liability”, in relation to the transferor, means any liability, duty
   or obligation (whether actual or contingent, liquidated or
   unliquidated, and whether owed alone or jointly or jointly
   and severally with any other person) of the transferor on the
   eve of the transfer date;

“records”, in relation to the transferor, means registers, papers,
   documents, minutes, receipts, books of account and any other
   record, however compiled, recorded or stored, of the
   transferor existing on the eve of the transfer date;

“right”, in relation to the transferor, means any right, power,
   privilege or immunity of the transferor on the eve of the
   transfer date;

“transfer date” means 1 January 2018;

“transferor” means the Housing and Development Board
   constituted under the Housing and Development Act 1959;

“transferring employee” means an employee of the transferor
   who, on the eve of the transfer date, is deployed in the
   Industrial Properties Group.

                                   [34/2017]

Transfer of undertaking to Corporation

 37.—(1) On the transfer date, all assets and liabilities of the
transferor that relate to the functions of the Industrial Properties

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

30  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

Group, except the excluded undertaking, are transferred to the
Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (2) When any assets or liabilities are transferred under
subsection (1), the following provisions have effect:

    (a) the assets of the transferor that are the subject of the
         transfer vest in the Corporation by virtue of this section and
         without the need for any further conveyance, transfer,
         assignment or assurance;

    (b) the liabilities of the transferor that are the subject of the
         transfer become by virtue of this section the liabilities of
         the Corporation;

    (c) all legal or other proceedings relating to those assets or
        liabilities that are started before the transfer date by or
        against the transferor and pending immediately before that
        date are taken to be proceedings pending by or against the
        Corporation;

    (d) any legal or other proceedings relating to those assets or
         liabilities which could have been started immediately
         before the transfer date by or against the transferor may be
         started by or against the Corporation;

    (e) a judgment or order of a court or other tribunal obtained
        before the transfer date by or against the transferor relating
        to those assets or liabilities may be enforced by or against
        the Corporation;

    (f) any document relating to legal or other proceedings
        relating to those assets or liabilities, that has been served
        on or by the transferor before the transfer date, is taken
        (where appropriate) to have been served on or by the
        Corporation;

    (g) any act, matter or thing done or omitted to be done before
         the transfer date in relation to those assets or liabilities by,
         to or in respect of the transferor is (to the extent to which
         that act, matter or thing has any force or effect) taken to
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 31

          have been done or omitted by, to or in respect of the
          Corporation;

(h) a reference in any written law, in any instrument made
     under any Act, in any contract, agreement, arrangement or
     undertaking, or in any document of any kind to the
     transferor, as regards anything falling to be done or capable
     of being done on or after the transfer date and to the extent
     to which the reference relates to those assets or liabilities,
     is taken to be, or includes, a reference to the Corporation;

      (i) a reference in any written law, in any instrument made
           under any Act, in any contract, agreement, arrangement or
           undertaking, or in any document of any kind to an officer
           of the transferor, as regards anything falling to be done or
           capable of being done on or after the transfer date and to
           the extent to which the reference relates to those assets or
           liabilities, is taken to be, or includes, a reference to an
           officer of the Corporation whom the Corporation appoints
           for that purpose.

                                                                                                         [34/2017]

(3) In particular —

(a) all security deposits deposited with the transferor in
     relation to any assets or liabilities transferred under
     subsection (1) and not forfeited before the transfer date;
     and

(b) the benefits of all indemnities, guarantees or warranties
     given to the transferor in relation to any assets or liabilities
     transferred under subsection (1) and not discharged before
     that date,

are, without further assurance, transferred and deemed deposited with
or given to the Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (4) The operation of this section does not —

(a) constitute a breach of, or default under, an Act or other law
     or otherwise a civil wrong or criminal wrong;

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

32  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    (b) constitute a breach of duty of confidence (whether arising
         by contract, in equity, by custom, or in any other way);

    (c) constitute a breach of any contractual provision
        prohibiting, restricting or regulating the assignment or
        transfer of assets or liabilities or the disclosure of any
        information;

    (d) terminate an agreement or fulfil any condition that allows a
         person to terminate any agreement or obligation, or give
         rise to any right or remedy in respect of any agreement or
         obligation;

    (e) cause any contract or instrument to be void or otherwise
        unenforceable;

    (f) frustrate any contract or release any surety or other obligor
        wholly or in part from any obligation;

    (g) release a surety or other obligee wholly or in part from an
         obligation; or

       (h) constitute an event of breach of, or default under, any
            contract or other instrument.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (5) No attornment to the Corporation by a lessee from the transferor
is required.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

Transferring employees to Corporation

 38.—(1) On the transfer date, every transferring employee —

       (a) stops being an employee of the transferor; and

       (b) is each transferred to the service, and becomes an
            employee, of the Corporation on terms no less
            favourable than those enjoyed by the employee on the
            eve of the transfer date.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (2) The transfer of a transferring employee to the Corporation —

       (a) does not interrupt continuity of service;

       (b) does not constitute a retrenchment or redundancy; and
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 33

       (c) does not entitle any employee so transferred to any
            payment or other benefit merely because he or she stops
            being employed by the transferor.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (3) A certificate purporting to be signed by the Minister certifying
that an individual named in the certificate was, with effect from the
transfer date, employed by virtue of this section by the Corporation, is
admissible in evidence in any proceedings as evidence of the matters
stated in it.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (4) Nothing in this section prevents —

(a) any of the terms and conditions of employment of an
     individual transferred under this section from being altered
     by or under any law, award or agreement with effect from
     any time after the transfer date; and

       (b) an individual transferred under this section from resigning
            from the Corporation at any time after the transfer date, in
            accordance with the terms and conditions of his or her
            employment then applicable.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (5) To avoid doubt, section 18A of the Employment Act 1968 does
not apply to the transfer under this Part of any employee to the
Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

General preservation of employment terms

 39.—(1) The service with the Corporation of an employee
transferred under section 38 (called in this section a transferred
employee) must be regarded for all purposes as having been
continuous with the service of the employee with the transferor
immediately before the transfer date.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (2) On the transfer date —

       (a) a transferred employee retains all accrued rights as if
            employment with the Corporation were a continuation of
            employment with the transferor;

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

34  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    (b) the liabilities of the transferor relating to the transferred
         employee’s accrued rights to annual, sick, maternity or
         other leave and superannuation become the liabilities of
         the Corporation; and

       (c) a reference in the contract of employment that had effect in
            relation to the transferred employee immediately before
            the transfer date is taken to be, or includes, a reference to
            the Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (3) For any conduct while a transferred employee was employed by
the transferor which would have rendered the employee liable to be
reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or punished by the
transferor, the Corporation may —

    (a) start any disciplinary proceedings against that employee;

    (b) carry on and complete any disciplinary proceedings started
         by the transferor against the transferred employee if those
         proceedings are pending on the eve of the transfer date; and

       (c) reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or otherwise
            punish a transferred employee, as if the employee were not
            transferred.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (4) Where, on the eve of the transfer date, any matter about the
conduct of a transferred employee while employed by the
transferor —

    (a) was in the course of being heard or investigated by a
         committee of the transferor acting under due authority; or

    (b) had been heard or investigated by a committee of the
         transferor acting under due authority but no order, ruling or
         direction had been made,

that committee must complete the hearing or investigation and make
such order, ruling or direction as it could have made under the
authority vested in it before that date, and that order, ruling or
direction is to be regarded as an order, ruling or direction of the
Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]
                     Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.             Act 1968                 35

 (5) Until conditions of employment are drawn up by the
Corporation for the transferred employees, every transferred
employee is to be regarded as being employed by the Corporation
on the same conditions of employment applicable to the employee on
the eve of the transfer date as the transferor.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (6) Any condition of employment relating to the length of service
with the Corporation must recognise the length of service of the
employees so transferred while in the employment of the transferor
(including any previous service of the employees taken to be service
with the transferor) to be service with the Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

Transfer of records

 40. From the transfer date, every record, or part of any record, of the
transferor that relates to —

(a) any assets or liabilities transferred to the Corporation under
     section 37; or

(b) any transferring employee,

becomes the record of the Corporation.

                                              [34/2017]

Confirmation of undertaking transferred

 41.—(1) For the purposes of determining the undertaking to be
transferred to the Corporation under this Part, the Minister and the
Minister charged with the responsibility for the transferor must,
before the transfer date, after consulting the transferor and the
Corporation, jointly specify the assets and liabilities of the transferor
that relate to the functions of the Industrial Properties Group which
must not be transferred to the Corporation under this Part.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (2) If any dispute arises —

       (a) as to whether an asset or a liability, or an employee or a
            record is transferred under section 37, 38 or 40; or

                                              31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

36  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    (b) as to whether any, or any part of any, contract or document
         relates to an asset or a liability, or an employee or a record,
         transferred under section 37, 38 or 40,

the Minister for Finance may determine the matter and is to provide
the concerned parties with written notice of that determination.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 (3) The determination of the Minister for Finance under
subsection (2) is final and binding on the transferor and the
Corporation.

                                                                                                           [34/2017]

 42. to 54. [Repealed by Act 34 of 2017]

                                    PART 5

       LIABILITY OF CORPORATION AT JURONG PORT

Interpretation of this Part

 55. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “goods” includes animals, carcases, baggage and any other kind
         of movable property;

      “Jurong Port” means any place in the district of Jurong in
         Singapore which is owned by the Corporation and where
         facilities are provided by the Corporation for ships to load or
         unload;

      “owner” —

              (a) in relation to goods, includes any consignor,
                   consignee, shipper or agent of the owner for the
                   sale, custody, loading, handling, discharge or
                   delivery of the goods; and

              (b) in relation to any vessel, includes any part-owner,
                   charterer, operator, consignee or mortgagee in
                   possession of the vessel, or any duly authorised
                   agent of any such person;
          Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.  Act 1968                 37

“transhipment goods” means goods landed from a vessel and
   placed in the custody of the Corporation for the purpose of
   shipment on another vessel on a through bill of lading dated
   at the port of loading of the goods and showing that the
   destination is via Singapore, with the ultimate port of
   destination marked on each package or unit containing the
   goods and declared on a transhipment manifest lodged with
   the Corporation prior to or at the time the goods are placed in
   its custody;

“vessel” includes any ship or boat or air-cushioned vehicle or
   floating rig or platform used in any form of operations at sea
   or any other description of vessel.

Application of this Part

 56. This Part applies only to the Jurong Port and to any place or
premises controlled or used by the Corporation for the purpose of
providing and maintaining adequate and efficient port services and
facilities in the Jurong Port.

Loss or destruction of or damage to goods other than
transhipment goods and goods accepted for storage

 57. Neither the Corporation nor any person acting for or on behalf
of the Corporation shall be liable —

       (a) for any loss caused to any person by reason of misdelivery,
            short delivery or non-delivery of any goods deposited with
            or placed in the custody or control of the Corporation, other
            than transhipment goods and goods accepted for storage by
            the Corporation under section 63; or

       (b) for damage to or destruction of any goods that have been
            duly acknowledged by the Corporation to be in its custody
            in the sum of more than $2,000 per package or unit unless
            the nature and value of the goods contained therein have,
            prior to delivery to the Corporation, been declared in
            writing to the Corporation by the person delivering or
            causing the same to be delivered, and the Corporation shall

                                   31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

38  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

    not in any event be liable therefor where the value of those
    goods has been misstated.

Liability for loss under contract

 58.—(1) Despite section 57, the Corporation must, on application
made to it by the owner of any vessel, enter into a contract with the
owner by which the Corporation accepts liability for any loss caused
by reason of short delivery by the Corporation of any goods deposited
with or placed in the custody or control of the Corporation or any
failure by the Corporation to deliver or account for them.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the Corporation may prescribe
the terms and conditions of the contract and may, with the Minister’s
approval, prescribe the rates to be levied.

 (3) The Corporation may refuse to enter into such contract unless
the contract is in respect of all of the goods to be loaded into or
discharged from a vessel, as the case may be.

Loss or destruction of, or damage to, transhipment goods
deposited with Corporation

 59.—(1) In respect of any transhipment goods delivered by any
person to, or placed by any person in the custody of, the Corporation,
the Corporation is, from the time of acknowledgment of the receipt of
the goods and until delivery of the goods alongside the on-carrying
vessel for loading, liable, subject to section 60, for the loss or
destruction of, or damage to, the goods.

 (2) The Corporation shall not be liable for any loss, destruction or
damage in a sum of more than $2,000 per package or unit unless the
nature and value of the goods contained therein have, prior to delivery
to the Corporation, been declared in writing to the Corporation by the
person delivering or causing them to be delivered, and the
Corporation shall not in any event be liable therefor where the
value of those goods has been misstated.
                     Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.             Act 1968                                 39

Force majeure, etc.

 60. Sections 57 and 59 do not impose on the Corporation or any
person duly authorised by it any liability for the loss or destruction of,
or damage to, any goods arising from —

(a) fire or flood, unless caused by the actual fault or privity of
     the Corporation;

(b) an act of God;

          (c) act of war or of public enemies;

(d) seizure under any legal process;

          (e) quarantine restrictions;

          (f) any act, omission or default of the owner or carrier of those
              goods;

(g) strikes, lockouts or stoppages or restraints of labour from
     any cause, whether partial or general;

(h) riots and civil commotions;

          (i) saving or attempting to save life or property;

          (j) insufficient or improper packing, defective or insufficient
              marks or leakage from defective drums, containers or
              packages;

          (k) any inherent liability to wastage in bulk or weight, latent or
              inherent defect or natural deterioration;

          (l) any deficiency in the contents of unbroken packages; or

(m) the dangerous nature of those goods.

Cargo subject to general or particular average

 61.—(1) The owner or master of any vessel discharging or
intending to discharge any cargo which is the subject or likely to
be the subject of a declaration of general or particular average into the
premises of the Corporation must inform the Corporation of the
existence or likelihood of the declaration and of the particulars of the
cargo affected or likely to be affected by the declaration prior to the
commencement of the discharge.

                                                              31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

40  Act 1968                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The Corporation is exempt from all liability in respect of the
discharge, reception, storage or removal of any cargo mentioned in
subsection (1).

Corporation not responsible for acts of stevedore or workman

 62. Any stevedore or workman while engaged in performing work
in or in respect of any vessel is deemed, even though the stevedore’s
or workman’s wage or remuneration for performing the work is paid
by the Corporation, to be the employee of the owner and master of the
vessel and the Corporation is exempt from all liability for any loss or
damage caused by any act, omission or default of the stevedore or
workman.

Saving

 63.—(1) Nothing in this Part precludes the Corporation from
accepting goods for storage as well as liability for any loss,
destruction or damage to the goods.

 (2) Nothing in this Part affects any liability that may be imposed on
the Corporation by any written law relating to compensation to
employees defined under the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 or
the Work Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition)
repealed by that Act.

                                                                                                 [5/2008; 27/2019]

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

 64. [Repealed by Act 34 of 2017]

Conduct of prosecution

 65. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act or any
rules or regulations made under this Act may, with the authorisation
of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by any officer of the
Corporation or any other person authorised in writing in that behalf
by the Chairperson.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]
                    Jurong Town Corporation

2020 Ed.                 Act 1968            41

Service of notices

 66. Unless otherwise expressly provided, every notice, order or
document required or authorised by this Act or any rules or
regulations made under this Act to be served on the owner of a
flat, house or building sold under the provisions of this Act is deemed
to be sufficiently served —

(a) if the notice, order or document is delivered to the owner or
     is delivered at the flat, house or building to an adult
     member or servant of the owner’s family;

(b) if it is sent to the owner by registered post at the owner’s
     flat, house or building (whether or not it has been received
     by the owner); or

(c) if it is affixed to some conspicuous part of the owner’s flat,
     house or building.

Composition of offences

 67.—(1) The chief executive officer of the Corporation or any other
officer of the Corporation who is authorised by the chief executive
officer of the Corporation may compound any offence under this Act
or any rules or regulations made under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

                                             [20/2013]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
which may be compounded.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

                                             31.12.2021
    Jurong Town Corporation

42  Act 1968                        2020 Ed.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [20/2013]

             THE SCHEDULE           Section 35(1)

    SYMBOLS OF THE CORPORATION
                 (Existing symbol)

    (New symbol)
                    LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               JURONG TOWN CORPORATION
                              ACT 1968

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 5 of 1968 — Jurong Town Corporation Act, 1968

Bill                     : 9/1968

First Reading            : 9 May 1968

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 1968

Commencement             : 1 June 1968

2. Act 36 of 1970 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                     : 39/1970

First, Second and Third  : 2 September 1970
Readings

Commencement             : 4 September 1970

3. Act 7 of 1971 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1971

Bill                     : 55/1970

First Reading            : 30 December 1970

Second and Third Readings : 11 January 1971

Commencement             : 1 February 1971

4. 1970 Revised Edition — Jurong Town Corporation Act (Chapter 209)

Operation                : 1 July 1971

5. Act 35 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) (No. 4) Act, 1973

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                     : 35/1973

First Reading            : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 26 July 1973

Commencement             : 1 September 1973 (section 2 read with
                               the Schedule)

                                                      31.12.2021
                      ii

6. Act 29 of 1974 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1974

Bill                  : 22/1974

First Reading         : 28 August 1974

Second Reading        : 23 October 1974

Notice of Amendments  : 23 October 1974

Third Reading         : 23 October 1974

Commencement          : 1 January 1975

7. Act 11 of 1978 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1978

Bill                  : 6/1978

First Reading         : 31 January 1978

Second and Third Readings : 17 February 1978

Commencement          : 23 March 1978

8. Act 31 of 1980 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act, 1980

Bill                  : 19/1980
First Reading         : 29 July 1980

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 1980

Commencement          : 12 January 1981

9. Act 7 of 1983 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act, 1983
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 25/1982

First Reading         : 3 December 1982

Second and Third Readings : 4 March 1983

Commencement          : 15 April 1983 (section 2 read with the
                            Schedule)

10. Act 27 of 1986 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act 1986

Bill                  : 18/1986

First Reading         : 29 July 1986

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1986

Commencement          : 19 September 1986

11. 1985 Revised Edition — Jurong Town Corporation Act (Chapter 150)

Operation             : 30 March 1987
                      iii

12. Act 11 of 1991 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1991
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (15) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 4/1991

First Reading         : 3 January 1991

Second Reading        : 14 January 1991

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1991

Third Reading         : 14 January 1991

Commencement          : 30 November 1991 (section 2 read
                            with item (15) of the Schedule)

13. Act 18 of 1994 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1994
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 25/1994

First Reading         : 25 July 1994

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1994

Commencement          : 1 October 1994 (section 2 read with
                            item (4) of the Schedule)

14. Act 23 of 1995 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act 1995

Bill                  : 18/1995

First Reading         : 25 May 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 July 1995

Commencement          : 4 August 1995

15. 1998 Revised Edition — Jurong Town Corporation Act (Chapter 150)

Operation             : 30 May 1998

16. Act 46 of 1998 — Trade Marks Act 1998
     (Amendments made by section 111 read with item (4) of the Fourth Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                  : 42/1998

First Reading         : 12 October 1998

Second and Third Readings : 26 November 1998

Commencement          : 15 January 1999 (section 111 read
                            with item (4) of the Fourth Schedule)
               iv

17. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (19) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with item
                     (19) of the Schedule)

18. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
     (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (23) of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (23) of the Schedule)

19. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (17) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement   : 1 January 2006 (section 5 read with
                     item (17) of the First Schedule)

20. Act 5 of 2008 — Workmen’s Compensation (Amendment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 40 read with item (9) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 50/2007

First Reading  : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement   : 1 April 2008 (section 40 read with
                     item (9) of the Schedule)
                      v

21. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 57 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2010

First Reading         : 26 April 2010

Second Reading        : 18 May 2010

Third Reading         : 19 May 2010

Commencement          : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                            item 57 of the Sixth Schedule)

22. Act 20 of 2013 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act 2013

Bill                  : 15/2013

First Reading         : 16 September 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 October 2013

Commencement          : 8 November 2013

23. Act 34 of 2017 — Jurong Town Corporation (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill                  : 28/2017

First Reading         : 1 August 2017

Second and Third Readings : 11 September 2017

Commencement          : 1 January 2018

24. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 74 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 74)

25. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 83(8)(e) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2019

First Reading         : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 3 September 2019
       Commencement           vi
                             : 1 September 2020 (section 83(8)(e))

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
               COMPARATIVE TABLE

         JURONG TOWN CORPORATION
                        ACT 1968

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    1998 Ed.
                   5—(1A)
5—(2)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
   (8)                (7)
   (9)                (8)
   (10)               (9)
                   8—(4) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                  12—(1A)
12—(2)                (1B)
                      (2)
   (3)             21—(2) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
   (4)                (3) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                     (4)
—
21—(2)

                                  31.12.2021
