THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT
                               ACT 1997

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

         Government Procurement
                   Act 1997

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Relevant State or relevant Protocol State
     2.  Application
     3.  Certification by Minister
     4.
     5.

                                       PART 2
            REGULATIONS GOVERNING PROCUREMENT

6. Power to make regulations
7. Duty of contracting authority

                                        PART 3

                         CHALLENGE PROCEEDINGS

 8. Government Procurement Adjudication Tribunal
 9. Registrar and officers of Tribunal
10. Constitution of Tribunal
11. Parties may be represented at challenge proceedings
12. Initiation of challenge
13. Deposit
14. Fixing of hearing of challenge
15. Preliminary hearing
16. Suspension order
17. Onus of proof, etc.
18. Determination on challenge
19. Determination and order to be in writing
20. Satisfaction of order

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Government Procurement

2  Act 1997                                        2020 Ed.

Section
   21. Costs of challenge proceeding
   22. Procedure and powers of Tribunal

                                           PART 4

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   23. Submission of information to Minister
   24. Retention of documents
   25. Power to make regulations
   26. Transitional provision

An Act to give effect to the Agreement on Government Procurement
  and other international obligations of Singapore relating to
  procurements by the Government and public authorities, and for
  purposes connected therewith.

                                                                                                           [28/2004]

                                                                [13 May 2002]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Government Procurement Act 1997.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Agreement on Government Procurement” means the
         Agreement by that name done at Marrakesh on 15 April
         1994 and amended by the Protocol;
      “applicant” has the meaning given by section 12(1);
      “award”, in relation to a contract or tender, means to accept an
         offer made;
      “challenge proceeding” means any proceeding under Part 3;
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.  Act 1997                         3

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner appointed under
   section 8(2) and includes an acting Commissioner appointed
   under section 8(9);

“contracting authority” means a ministry or department of the
   Government, an Organ of State or a statutory board declared,
   by order made under section 4(1), as a contracting authority
   for the purposes of this Act;

“Deputy Commissioner” means a Deputy Commissioner
   appointed under section 8(2);

“document” includes an electronic record;

“legal officer” has the same meaning as in the Government
   Proceedings Act 1956;

“procurement” means procurement of goods or service or a
   combination of goods and service by any contractual means,
   such as purchase or lease, rental or hire-purchase, with or
   without an option to buy the goods or service or combination
   of goods and service;

“procurement subject to the Act” means a procurement declared,
   by order made under section 4(2), to be a procurement subject
   to this Act;

“Protocol” means the Protocol Amending the Agreement on
   Government Procurement done at Geneva on 30 March 2012;

“qualification of suppliers” means a process undertaken by a
   contracting authority to shortlist suppliers for a particular
   procurement, a particular type of procurement or
   procurement in general;

“relevant Protocol State” means a country or territory declared,
   by order made under section 3, as a relevant Protocol State
   for the purposes of this Act;

                                           31.12.2021
   Government Procurement

4  Act 1997                2020 Ed.

   “relevant Protocol supplier”, in relation to a procurement subject
      to the Act, means —

   (a) a supplier who is a national of Singapore or of a
        relevant Protocol State that is specified in an order
        made under section 4(2) as one to which that
        procurement relates;

   (b) a supplier which is a company or an association or a
        body of persons, corporate or unincorporate, which is
        formed under the laws of Singapore or such relevant
        Protocol State and has its principal place of business
        in Singapore or such relevant Protocol State; or

   (c) a supplier, or supplier within a class of suppliers,
       specified under that order as a relevant Protocol
       supplier or class of relevant Protocol suppliers in
       relation to that procurement;

   “relevant State” means a country or territory declared, by order
      made under section 3, as a relevant State for the purposes of
      this Act;

   “relevant supplier”, in relation to a procurement subject to the
      Act, means —

   (a) a supplier who is a national of Singapore or of a
        relevant State that is specified in an order made under
        section 4(2) as one to which that procurement relates;

   (b) a supplier which is a company or an association or a
        body of persons, corporate or unincorporate, which is
        formed under the laws of Singapore or such relevant
        State and has its principal place of business in
        Singapore or such relevant State; or

   (c) a supplier, or supplier within a class of suppliers,
       specified under that order as a relevant supplier or
       class of relevant suppliers in relation to that
       procurement;
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.  Act 1997                5

“supplier” means a person who sought, or who seeks, or who
   would have wished, to be the person to whom a contract of
   procurement, being a procurement subject to the Act, is
   awarded;

“Tribunal” means the Government Procurement Adjudication
   Tribunal established under section 8.

                                  [28/2004; 2/2014]

Relevant State or relevant Protocol State

 3. The Minister may, from time to time, by order in the Gazette,
declare any country or territory as a relevant State or relevant
Protocol State for the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                             [2/2014]

Application
 4.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare any

ministry or department of the Government, Organ of State or
statutory board as a contracting authority for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare a
procurement to be subject to the Act.

 (3) An order made under subsection (2) may identify the
procurement by one or more of the following:

       (a) the means by which the procurement is undertaken;

       (b) the contracting authority undertaking the procurement;

       (c) the goods or service, or combination of goods and service,
            to be procured;

       (d) the value of the procurement.
 (4) An order made under subsection (2) may specify —

       (a) the method by which the procurement is to be valued;

       (b) the circumstances under which the procurement is not a
            procurement subject to the Act;

                                  31.12.2021
   Government Procurement

6  Act 1997                                  2020 Ed.

   (c) the grounds on which the contracting authority may
       exclude a procurement, or an act or measure to be taken
       in relation to a procurement, from the application of all or
       any of the regulations made under section 6; and

   (d) the effect of an exclusion referred to in paragraph (c).

   (5) An order made under subsection (2) —

   (a) must specify that the procurement is a procurement subject
        to the Act in relation to all or any of the following:

   (i) all relevant States or a specified relevant State;

   (ii) all relevant Protocol States or a specified relevant
        Protocol State; and

   (b) may specify any supplier or class of suppliers as —

   (i) a relevant supplier or class of relevant suppliers in
       relation to that procurement for the purposes of
       paragraph (c) of the definition of “relevant supplier”
       in section 2; or

   (ii) a relevant Protocol supplier or class of relevant
        Protocol suppliers in relation to that procurement for
        the purposes of paragraph (c) of the definition of
        “relevant Protocol supplier” in section 2.

                                                                               [28/2004; 2/2014]

Certification by Minister

 5.—(1) The Minister may issue a certificate certifying that a
particular procurement is not a procurement subject to the Act by
virtue of section 4(4)(b).

 (2) The Minister may issue a certificate certifying that a ground
referred to in section 4(4)(c) exists in relation to a particular
procurement or an act or measure in relation to a particular
procurement.

 (3) A certificate issued under subsection (1) or (2) is conclusive
evidence of the matters so certified.
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.                   Act 1997                  7

                           PART 2

          REGULATIONS GOVERNING PROCUREMENT

Power to make regulations

 6.—(1) The Minister may, for the purposes of implementing the
Agreement on Government Procurement and other international
obligations of Singapore relating to procurements by the Government
and public authorities, make regulations to govern procurements
subject to the Act.

                                                                                                           [28/2004]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may
prescribe —

(a) the technical specifications for a procurement;

(b) the procedure for qualification of suppliers for a
     procurement;

          (c) the procedure for the award of a procurement contract and
              the procedure following such award;

(d) the provision of any information pertaining to a
     procurement; and

          (e) different provisions for different procurements.

                                                                                                          [28/2004]

Duty of contracting authority

 7.—(1) Subject to an order made under section 4(2), a contracting
authority must, in undertaking a procurement subject to the Act,
comply with the regulations made under section 6.

 (2) The duty of a contracting authority referred to in subsection (1)
is a duty owed to —

       (a) relevant suppliers or relevant Protocol suppliers in relation
            to that procurement; and

       (b) such other supplier or class of suppliers as the Minister
            may, by order published in the Gazette, declare.

                                                                                                 [28/2004; 2/2014]

                                                     31.12.2021
   Government Procurement

8  Act 1997                2020 Ed.

 (3) A breach of a duty referred to in subsection (1) is not to be the
subject of any proceedings in any court but may be the subject of a
challenge brought before the Tribunal by a supplier to whom the duty
is owed and who has suffered, or reasonably risks suffering, loss or
damage as a result of the breach.

                                    PART 3

                     CHALLENGE PROCEEDINGS

Government Procurement Adjudication Tribunal

 8.—(1) For the purposes of hearing and determining challenges
mentioned in section 7(3), there is established a Tribunal to be called
the Government Procurement Adjudication Tribunal consisting of the
Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner.

 (2) The Minister may appoint a Commissioner and such number of
Deputy Commissioners as the Minister thinks fit.

 (3) The Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners are to be
appointed for a period of 2 years and are eligible for re-appointment.

 (4) A person must not be appointed or continue to hold office as
Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner if the person —

       (a) has a mental disorder and is incapable of managing himself
            or herself or his or her affairs;

       (b) is an undischarged bankrupt or has made any arrangement
            or composition with his or her creditors; or

       (c) is convicted of an offence involving dishonesty, fraud or
            moral turpitude and has not received a free pardon.

                                                                                                           [21/2008]

 (5) The Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner may at any time
resign from his or her office by giving notice in writing to the
Minister.

 (6) The Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners are deemed to
be public servants within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871, and
enjoy the same judicial immunity as is enjoyed by a Supreme Court
Judge.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.  Act 1997                9

 (7) The Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners are to be paid
such remuneration and allowances as the Minister may from time to
time determine.

 (8) The Minister may at any time revoke the appointment of a
Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner who —

(a) ceases to be eligible to hold that appointment in accordance
     with subsection (4);

(b) has become permanently incapable of discharging the
     functions of a Commissioner or Deputy Commissioner, as
     the case may be; or

          (c) has misconducted himself or herself in such a manner as to
              render him or her unfit to continue holding the
              appointment.

 (9) When the Commissioner is or is expected to be absent from
duty, the Commissioner or, if the Commissioner is absent, the
Minister may appoint a Deputy Commissioner to be acting
Commissioner during the Commissioner’s absence.

Registrar and officers of Tribunal

 9.—(1) The Minister may appoint a Registrar of the Tribunal and
such other officers of the Tribunal as the Minister considers
necessary.

 (2) The duties of the Registrar and other officers of the Tribunal are,
subject to this Act and any regulations made under this Act, as the
Minister directs.

 (3) The Registrar and other officers of the Tribunal are deemed to
be public servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                  31.12.2021
    Government Procurement

10                        Act 1997                        2020 Ed.

Constitution of Tribunal

 10.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a challenge proceeding is to be
heard and disposed of by the Tribunal consisting of the
Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner designated by the
Commissioner.

 (2) The Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner must not hear or
dispose of any challenge proceeding if he or she is, directly or
indirectly, interested in the procurement in relation to which the
proceeding is brought.

 (3) Where the Commissioner has commenced the hearing of a
challenge proceeding and is unable through death, illness or other
cause to complete the hearing or to dispose of the proceeding —

    (a) the acting Commissioner appointed under section 8(9); or

    (b) if the acting Commissioner is, directly or indirectly,
         interested in the procurement in relation to which the
         proceeding is brought, a Deputy Commissioner designated
         by the acting Commissioner,

must complete the hearing and dispose of the proceeding.

 (4) Subject to subsection (2), where a Deputy Commissioner who
has commenced the hearing of a challenge proceeding is unable
through death, illness or other cause to complete the hearing or to
dispose of the proceeding, the Commissioner may designate another
Deputy Commissioner to complete the hearing and dispose of the
proceeding, or may himself or herself complete the hearing and
dispose of the proceeding.

Parties may be represented at challenge proceedings

 11.—(1) The applicant and the contracting authority concerned
may be represented by an advocate and solicitor at the hearing of any
challenge proceeding.

 (2) Where the contracting authority concerned is a ministry or
department of the Government or is an Organ of State, a legal officer
may appear as advocate on behalf of the contracting authority and
may make and do all appearances, acts and applications in respect of
the proceeding on behalf of the contracting authority.
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.                 Act 1997  11

Initiation of challenge

 12.—(1) A supplier who wishes to bring a challenge before the
Tribunal (called in this Act the applicant) must, within 15 days from
the date the facts constituting the basis of the challenge first took
place —

(a) lodge with the Registrar a notice of challenge (called in this
     Act the Notice of Challenge);

(b) pay the Registrar the fee prescribed (if any) for bringing a
     challenge before the Tribunal; and

          (c) serve a copy of the Notice of Challenge on the contracting
              authority undertaking or who has undertaken the
              procurement that is the subject of the challenge.

 (2) The Notice of Challenge must be in such form and must contain
such information, and be accompanied by such documents, as may be
prescribed.

Deposit

 13.—(1) The applicant must, at the time the Notice of Challenge is
lodged with the Registrar of the Tribunal, deposit in cash or in such
other form as the Registrar in a particular case may allow, such sum as
may be prescribed (called in this Act the deposit).

 (2) The challenge is deemed to have been withdrawn if the
applicant fails to comply with subsection (1).

 (3) The deposit is to be used by the Registrar to pay any costs
awarded by the Tribunal to the contracting authority concerned under
section 21 in relation to the challenge.

 (4) Where the deposit is insufficient to cover the costs mentioned in
subsection (3), the contracting authority concerned may recover the
balance of the costs in the manner referred to in section 21.

                                   31.12.2021
    Government Procurement

12  Act 1997                2020 Ed.

 (5) After the challenge has been disposed of by the Tribunal, the
Registrar must, if he or she is satisfied that there is no outstanding
claim for costs by the contracting authority concerned against the
applicant, release the deposit or the balance of the deposit (as the case
may be) to the applicant.

Fixing of hearing of challenge

 14. On receipt of a Notice of Challenge, the fee mentioned in
section 12(1)(b) and the deposit, the Registrar must —

       (a) forward a copy of the Notice of Challenge to the
            contracting authority concerned;

       (b) fix a time and place for the hearing of the challenge; and

       (c) give 14 days’ notice of the hearing to the applicant and the
            contracting authority concerned.

Preliminary hearing

 15.—(1) The Tribunal may at any time, on its own motion or upon
the application of the contracting authority concerned, hear and
determine, as a preliminary issue and with a view to a possible final
disposal of the challenge, the validity of the challenge.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Tribunal must declare a
challenge invalid if —

       (a) the procurement which is the subject of the challenge is not
            a procurement subject to the Act;

       (b) the regulation made under section 6 which the contracting
            authority concerned is alleged to have breached is
            inapplicable to the procurement which is the subject of
            the challenge;

       (c) the regulation made under section 6 which the contracting
            authority concerned is alleged to have breached is
            inapplicable, by virtue of an order made under section 4,
            to the procurement or the act or measure in relation to a
            procurement, which is the subject of the challenge;
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.  Act 1997                13

(d) the procurement which is the subject of the challenge is a
     procurement which has been initiated before 13 May 2002
     within the meaning of section 26;

          (e) the applicant is not a supplier entitled to bring a challenge
              under section 7(3);

          (f) the applicant did not lodge or serve the Notice of Challenge
              within the time prescribed by section 12(1), unless the
              Tribunal is satisfied that there has been no unreasonable
              delay on the part of the applicant; or

       (g) the Notice of Challenge does not comply with
            section 12(2).

                                                                                                           [28/2004]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(f), the Tribunal must take into
account the date the applicant became aware, or ought reasonably to
have become aware, of the facts constituting the basis of the
challenge, and may, in granting any permission to the applicant to
proceed with the challenge, impose such conditions as it considers
just on the applicant.

 (4) If the applicant fails to comply with any of the conditions
imposed by the Tribunal under subsection (3), the Tribunal may
declare the challenge invalid.

Suspension order
 16.—(1) The applicant may, at any time after the applicant has —

       (a) lodged the Notice of Challenge with the Registrar;

       (b) paid the fee mentioned in section 12(1)(b) and the deposit
            to the Registrar; and

       (c) served the Notice of Challenge on the relevant contracting
            authority,

apply to the Tribunal for an order to suspend, pending the disposal of
the challenge —

       (d) the procedure leading to the award of the contract for the
            procurement which is the subject of the challenge; or

                                  31.12.2021
    Government Procurement

14  Act 1997                                                2020 Ed.

    (e) the implementation of any decision made while
        undertaking the procedure mentioned in paragraph (d).

 (2) The Tribunal may make the order either unconditionally or upon
such terms and conditions as the Tribunal thinks just.

 (3) The Tribunal must not make an order under this section if —

    (a) such suspension is against the public interest; or

    (b) the contract mentioned in subsection (1)(d) has already
         been awarded at the date of hearing of the application for
         the order.

 (4) If the Tribunal refuses to make an order under this section, the
Tribunal must give the reasons for its refusal in writing.

 (5) Where an order under this section has been made, the
contracting authority concerned may, at any time before the
determination on the challenge mentioned in section 18 is made,
apply to the Tribunal for the order to be varied or rescinded.

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), the Tribunal may, in its discretion,
vary or rescind the order either unconditionally or upon such
conditions as it thinks just.

 (7) The Tribunal must rescind the order if the continuance of such
suspension is against the public interest.

 (8) The Minister may issue a certificate that such suspension, or the
continuance of such suspension, in a particular case is against the
public interest, and such a certificate is conclusive evidence of the
matters so certified.

Onus of proof, etc.

 17.—(1) The onus of proving the breach of duty which is the
subject of the challenge is on the applicant.

 (2) Except with the consent of the Tribunal and in accordance with
such conditions as the Tribunal may determine, the applicant may not,
at the hearing of the challenge, rely on any breach of duty other than
that identified in the Notice of Challenge.
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.                    Act 1997                     15

Determination on challenge

 18.—(1) The Tribunal must issue its determination on a challenge
within 45 days from the date of lodgment of the Notice of Challenge
by the applicant unless there are exceptional circumstances justifying
an extension of time.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the challenge has been disposed
of under section 15.

 (3) If the Tribunal makes a determination in favour of the applicant,
the Tribunal may do one or more of the following:

(a) order any decision or action taken by the contracting
     authority concerned in relation to the procurement which is
     the subject of the challenge to be set aside;

(b) order the contracting authority to make a decision or take
     action, in accordance with the applicable regulations made
     under section 6, in place of that which has been set aside
     under paragraph (a);

          (c) order the contracting authority to amend any document
              pertaining to the procurement;

(d) order the contracting authority to pay to the applicant the
     costs of participation in the qualification of suppliers, or
     the costs of tender preparation, reasonably incurred by the
     applicant for the purposes of the procurement.

 (4) An order made under subsection (3)(b) may specify the decision
or action which the contracting authority is to make or take.

(5) Despite subsection (3), if —

(a) the Tribunal makes a determination in favour of the
     applicant; and

       (b) the contract for the procurement has already been awarded,
the Tribunal may only —

          (c) make an order under subsection (3)(d); or

                                                         31.12.2021
    Government Procurement

16  Act 1997                2020 Ed.

    (d) if the applicant did not incur any of the costs mentioned in
         subsection (3)(d), award the applicant the costs of the
         challenge proceeding in accordance with section 21.

Determination and order to be in writing

 19.—(1) Every determination and order of the Tribunal must be
given in writing and must include a statement of the Tribunal’s
reasons for the determination or order, as the case may be.

 (2) The Registrar must, within 7 days of the making of the
determination or order, send certified copies of the determination or
order to the applicant and the relevant contracting authority.

Satisfaction of order

 20.—(1) A contracting authority against whom an order under
section 16 or 18(3)(a), (b) or (c) is made must comply with the order.

 (2) An applicant in whose favour an order under section 18(3)(d) is
made may recover the amount ordered to be paid to the applicant by
an action for a debt in any court of competent jurisdiction.

 (3) This section does not affect the right of the contracting authority
to seek judicial review of a determination or order of the Tribunal.

Costs of challenge proceeding

 21.—(1) Subject to any regulations made under this Act, the costs
of any challenge proceeding, including the costs of the Tribunal, are
at the discretion of the Tribunal.

 (2) The costs may be recovered as if they were costs in a suit in the
General Division of the High Court and as if the determination of the
Tribunal in relation to the costs were a decree made in the General
Division of the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Procedure and powers of Tribunal

 22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any regulations
made under this Act, the Tribunal has the power to determine the
procedure to be adopted for any challenge proceeding.
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.  Act 1997                                     17

(2) The Tribunal has the following additional powers:

(a) to summon to attend at any challenge proceeding any
     person whom it may consider able to give evidence in
     respect of the proceeding, to examine the person as a
     witness either on oath or otherwise and to require the
     person to produce such books, records or documents as the
     Tribunal may think necessary for the proceeding;

(b) to allow any person attending any challenge proceeding
     any reasonable expenses necessarily incurred by the person
     in so attending;

          (c) to fix the remuneration of any expert witness appointed by
              the Tribunal for any challenge proceeding;

(d) with the consent of the applicant and the relevant
     contracting authority, to refer the parties for mediation
     by such person as the parties may agree on or failing such
     agreement, as the Tribunal may appoint;

          (e) all the powers of the Supreme Court with regard to the
              enforcement of attendance of witnesses, hearing evidence
              on oath and punishment for contempt;

          (f) to admit or reject any evidence adduced, whether oral or
              documentary, and whether admissible under the provisions
              of any written law for the time being in force relating to the
              admissibility of evidence;

(g) to conduct its proceedings or any part of its proceedings in
     camera; and

(h) generally to give any direction, or to do anything,
     necessary or expedient for the expeditious and just
     hearing and disposal of any challenge proceeding.

 (3) The expenses mentioned in subsection (2)(b) and the
remuneration mentioned in subsection (2)(c) form part of the costs
of the challenge proceeding and, pending and subject to any order
made by the Tribunal as to such costs, must be paid by the applicant
or the contracting authority concerned, as the Tribunal may direct.

                                                       31.12.2021
    Government Procurement

18  Act 1997                2020 Ed.

 (4) Evidence of anything said, or of any admission made, in the
course of any mediation mentioned in subsection (2)(d) is not
admissible in any proceedings before the Tribunal or any court.

 (5) Where the Minister certifies that it is against the public interest
for any challenge proceeding to take place in public, the Tribunal
must conduct the proceeding in camera.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Submission of information to Minister

 23. A contracting authority must give to the Minister, in such form
and at such intervals as may be prescribed, such information as may
be prescribed in relation to any procurement subject to this Act which
the contracting authority has undertaken or is undertaking or
proposes to undertake.

Retention of documents

 24. A contracting authority must ensure that all documents relating
to procurements subject to this Act are retained for a minimum of
3 years from the date of their creation.

Power to make regulations
 25. The Minister may make regulations prescribing —

       (a) the manner in which challenges may be brought to the
            Tribunal;

       (b) the procedure to be adopted by the Tribunal in the hearing
            and disposal of challenge proceedings and the records to be
            kept by the Tribunal;

       (c) the places where and the times at which challenge
            proceedings are to be heard by the Tribunal;

       (d) the costs and fees in respect of challenge proceedings; and
          Government Procurement

2020 Ed.  Act 1997                19

          (e) anything which is required to be prescribed under this Act
              or which may be necessary or expedient for carrying out or
              giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

Transitional provision

 26.—(1) This Act does not apply to or affect any procurement
which has been initiated before 13 May 2002.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a procurement is deemed to
have been initiated if —

       (a) the invitation to tender in respect of the procurement has
            been issued;

       (b) the qualification of suppliers, being a qualification of
            suppliers undertaken solely for that particular
            procurement, has commenced; or

       (c) in a case where no tender is to be called for the
            procurement, the contracting authority concerned had
            communicated with a potential supplier with a view to
            the making or obtaining of an offer in relation to the
            procurement.

                                  31.12.2021
           LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      GOVERNMENT PROCUREMENT
                     ACT 1997

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 14 of 1997 — Government Procurement Act 1997

Bill           : 14/1997

First Reading  : 7 October 1997

Second and Third Readings : 19 November 1997

Commencement   : 13 May 2002

Note: This Act was brought into force after it was revised in 1998.

2. Act 28 of 2004 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill           : 27/2004

First Reading  : 15 June 2004

Second and Third Readings : 20 July 2004

Commencement   : 1 September 2004 (section 4)

3. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
   (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(16) of the Second
   Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 11/2008

First Reading  : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement   : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                     item 1(16) of the Second Schedule)

4. Act 2 of 2014 — Government Procurement (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill           : 23/2013

First Reading  : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement   : 6 April 2014

                                                     31.12.2021
                                     ii

5. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 64 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

       Bill                          : 32/2019

       First Reading                 : 7 October 2019

       Second Reading                : 5 November 2019

       Notice of Amendments          : 5 November 2019

       Third Reading                 : 5 November 2019

       Commencement                  : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                                           with item 64 of the Schedule)

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
