THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT 1975

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

Weights and Measures Act 1975

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
            UNITS AND STANDARDS OF MEASUREMENT

3. Units of measurement
4. Standard weights and measures

                                        PART 3

               WEIGHING AND MEASURING FOR TRADE

 5. Meaning of “use for trade”
 6. Units of measurements and weights lawful for use for trade
 7. Weighing or measuring instruments for use for trade
 7A. Inspection and testing by Authorised Verifier
 7B. Inspection and testing by inspector
 8. Approved patterns of instruments for use for trade
 9. General specifications of instruments for use for trade
10. Regulations relating to weighing or measuring instruments for

         trade
11. Offences in connection with affixing of stamps and Accuracy

         Labels on instruments
12. Power to ban use of weighing or measuring instrument
13. [Repealed]
14. Other offences in connection with instruments
15. Evidence of possession of instruments for use for trade

                                           1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                                  2

          PART 4

          REGULATION OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS IN GOODS

Section   Transactions in particular goods
   16.    Offences in transactions in particular goods
   17.    Sale of goods in metric units
   18.    Short weight, etc.
   19.    Pleading of warranty as defence
   20.    Additional defences and safeguards for traders
   21.    Offence relating to document containing particular statements
   21A.   Offences due to default of third person
   22.    Offences originating in countries outside Singapore
   23.    Special powers of inspector with respect to certain goods
   24.    Powers of inspector with respect to certain documents
   25.    Check-weighing of certain road vehicles
   26.    Power to make test purchases
   27.    Selling by quantity, making quantity known, and weighing in
   28.    presence
          Selling by retail by weight, measure or number
   28A.

          PART 5

          ADMINISTRATION

29.       Administration of Act
29A.      Appointment of Authorised Verifiers
30.       General powers of inspection and entry
31.       Powers of arrest, etc.
31A.      Power to require recall of weighing or measuring instrument
          supplied

          PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS

32.       Obstruction of inspectors
33.       Composition of offences
34.       Jurisdiction
35.       Penalties
36.       Offences by corporations
36A.      Fees, etc., collected by Commission
36B.      Exemption
37.       Regulations

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
3        Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

Section  Orders
         Application to the Government
   38.   Saving
   39.   Transitional provision
   40.   First Schedule — Definitions of units of measurement
   41.
                                   (metric units)
         Second Schedule — Measures and weights (metric system)
         Third Schedule — Customary weights

An Act relating to the use of uniform weights and measures
  throughout Singapore.

                                                              [1 January 1976]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Weights and Measures Act 1975.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Accuracy Label” means a mark referred to in section 7(2)(d)(ii)
         for use as evidence of the passing of any weighing or
         measuring instrument as fit for use for trade;
      “Authorised Verifier” means any person appointed by the
         Commission under section 29A;

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

       [Deleted by Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]
      “catch weight goods” means goods that —

              (a) are enclosed in a package;
              (b) cannot be portioned to a predetermined quantity

                   because of their nature; and
              (c) are usually sold in varying quantities;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              4

“check-weighed”, in relation to any vehicle, means weighed
   with its load by means of the nearest suitable and available
   weighing instrument, and weighed again after it has been
   unloaded by means of the same or other suitable weighing
   instrument;

“Commission” means the Competition and Consumer
   Commission of Singapore established by section 3 of the
   Competition Act 2004;

                                                                       [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

“constructional use”, in relation to any goods, means the use of
   those goods in constructional work in the course of the
   carrying on of a business;

“container” includes any form of packaging of goods for sale as
   a single item, whether by way of wholly or partly enclosing
   the goods or by way of attaching the goods to, or winding the
   goods round, some other article, and in particular includes a
   wrapper or confining band;

“contravention”, in relation to any requirement, includes a
   failure to comply with that requirement, and cognate
   expressions are to be construed accordingly;

“Controller” means the Controller of Weights and Measures
   appointed under section 29 and includes any officer duly
   authorised by the Controller to act on his or her behalf;

“desiccating goods” means any goods made up in a package that
   lose weight or volume solely through evaporation when the
   package is made up;

[Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/06/2024]

“food” has the meaning given by section 4 of the Food Safety
   and Security Act 2025;

                                                                        [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

“gross weight”, in relation to any goods, means the aggregate
   weight of the goods and any container in or on which they are
   made up;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
5  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

   “inadequate package” means a package enclosing goods that
      contain less than the quantity stated on the package or a label
      attached to the package, where the deficiency is more than
      twice the amount of error prescribed for the purpose of this
      definition;

   “indication of quantity”, in relation to any container in or on
      which goods are made up, means a written statement to the
      effect that those goods are of, or of not less than, a specified
      quantity by net weight, gross weight or other measurement or
      by number, as the case may require;

   “industrial use”, in relation to any goods, means the use of those
      goods in the manufacture of, or for incorporation in, goods of
      a different description in the course of the carrying on of a
      business;

   “inspector” means an inspector of weights and measures
      appointed under section 29;

   “international definition”, in relation to any unit of
      measurement, means the definition of that unit recognised
      by the General Conferences of Weights and Measures from
      time to time convened by the International Bureau of Weights
      and Measures;

   “lot of packages” means a collection of packages enclosing
      goods that —

   (a) are of the same kind;

   (b) are of the same stated weight, measure or number;
        and

   (c) are available for inspection at the same time and
       place;

   “mark” includes label;

   “non-standard package” means a package enclosing goods that
      contains less than the quantity stated on the package or a label
      attached to it, where the deficiency is more than the amount
      of error prescribed for the purpose of this definition but not
      more than twice that prescribed amount of error;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              6

“occupier”, in relation to any stall, vehicle, ship or aircraft or in
   relation to the use of any place for any purpose, means the
   person for the time being in charge of the stall, vehicle, ship
   or aircraft or (as the case may be) the person for the time
   being using that place for that purpose;

“premises”, except in section 28(3), includes any place and any
   stall, vehicle, ship or aircraft;

“prepacked” means made up in advance ready for retail sale in or
   on a container; and on any premises where articles of any
   description are so made up, or are kept or stored for sale after
   being so made up, any article of that description found made
   up in or on a container is deemed to be prepacked unless the
   contrary is proved; and it is not sufficient proof of the
   contrary to show that the container has not been marked in
   accordance with the requirements of this Act or any
   subsidiary legislation made under this Act with respect to
   the prepacking of such articles;

“sale by retail” means a sale to a person buying for the person’s
   own use or consumption;

“ship” includes any boat and any other description of vessel used
   in navigation;

“stamp” means a mark referred to in section 7(2)(d)(i) for use as
   evidence of the passing of any weighing or measuring
   instrument as fit for use for trade;

“supply”, in relation to a weighing or measuring instrument,
   includes —

          (a) selling the weighing or measuring instrument,
               whether by wholesale or retail or otherwise;

          (b) supplying the weighing or measuring instrument by
               way of exchange, lease, loan, hire or hire-purchase;

          (c) supplying the weighing or measuring instrument,
              whether with or without charge, by way of sample or
              otherwise;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
7  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

   (d) offering or exposing the weighing or measuring
        instrument for sale or supply; and

   (e) keeping or having the weighing or measuring
       instrument for the purpose of selling or supplying it
       to someone else;

   “weighing or measuring instrument” means an instrument for
      measuring in terms of length, area, volume, capacity, weight
      or number, whether or not the instrument is constructed to
      give an indication of the measurement made or other
      information determined by reference to that measurement,
      and includes any article used as a weighing or measuring
      instrument.

                                                                                                [30/2005; 10/2018]

 (2) Except where the context otherwise requires, any reference in
this Act to any person, other than a reference to an Authorised Verifier
or inspector, is to be construed as a reference to that person or some
other person acting on that person’s behalf in the matter in question.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                    PART 2

         UNITS AND STANDARDS OF MEASUREMENT

Units of measurement

 3.—(1) The metre is the unit of measurement of length and the
kilogram is the unit of measurement of mass by reference to which
any measurement involving a measurement of length or mass is to be
made in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) The First Schedule has effect for defining, for the purposes of
measurements falling to be made in Singapore, the units of
measurements set out in that Schedule; and for the purposes of any
measurement of weight falling to be so made, the weight of anything
may be expressed, by reference to the units of measurements set out
in Part 5 of that Schedule, in the same terms as its mass.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.         Weights and Measures Act 1975                       8

Standard weights and measures

 4.—(1) There is to be maintained by the Agency for Science,
Technology and Research established under section 3 of the Agency
for Science, Technology and Research Act 1990 or any other person
that the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, specify the
standards of the metre and kilogram (called in this Act the Singapore
standards) by reference to which all other standards of —

(a) those units; and

(b) any other unit of measurement derived wholly or partly
     from any of those units,

are maintained.

                                                [30/2005; 54/2007]

 (2) The Minister must from time to time as may appear to him or her
expedient cause —

(a) the value of each of the Singapore standards to be
     determined or redetermined; and

(b) any authorised copy of any of those standards to be
     compared with, and its value determined or redetermined
     by reference to, that standard,

in any manner that the Minister may direct.

 (3) The reference standards consist of standards of all the measures
set out in Parts 1 and 2, and the weights set out in Part 3, of the
Second Schedule other than capacity measures of more than 10 litres;
and any such standard must be constructed and, while it remains in
use, from time to time have its value or values redetermined by
reference to one or more of the Singapore standards maintained under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                [30/2005; 54/2007]

 (4) The Minister may by order amend the Second Schedule by
adding to or removing from Part 1 or 2 of that Schedule any linear or
capacity measure or from Part 3 of that Schedule any weight.

 (5) The Controller must provide for use by the inspectors and
maintain or from time to time replace the standards of the measures
and weights set out in the Second Schedule, and the instruments for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
9  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

testing and the affixing of stamps and Accuracy Labels that the
Controller may from time to time approve or require as being proper
and sufficient for the efficient discharge of their duties.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                    PART 3

           WEIGHING AND MEASURING FOR TRADE

Meaning of “use for trade”

 5.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, “use for trade” means, subject
to subsection (2), use in Singapore in connection with, or with a view
to, a transaction for —

       (a) the transferring or rendering of money or money’s worth in
            consideration of money or money’s worth; or

       (b) the making of a payment in respect of any toll or duty,

where —

       (c) the transaction is by reference to quantity or is a transaction
            for the purposes of which there is made or implied a
            statement of the quantity of goods to which the transaction
            relates; and

       (d) the use is for the purpose of the determination or statement
            of that quantity.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply where —

       (a) the determination or statement is a determination or
            statement of the quantity of goods required for despatch
            to a destination outside Singapore; and

       (b) no transfer or rendering of money or money’s worth is
            involved other than the passing of the title to the goods and
            the consideration therefor.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Any weighing or measuring instrument which is made available
in Singapore for use by the public, whether on payment or otherwise,
is to be treated for the purposes of this Part as weighing or measuring

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              10

instrument in use for trade, whether or not it would apart from this
subsection be so treated.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Units of measurements and weights lawful for use for trade

 6.—(1) Subject to section 40, a person must not use for trade any
unit of measurement of length, area, volume, capacity, mass or weight
which is not included in the First Schedule.

 (2) A person must not use the carat (metric) for trade except for the
purposes of transactions in precious stones or pearls.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence, and any measure or weight used, or in any
person’s possession for use, in contravention of any of those
subsections shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) The Minister may by regulations prescribe what may be treated
for the purposes of use for trade as the equivalent of, or of any
multiple or fraction of, any unit of measurement or weight included in
the First Schedule in terms of any other such unit.

 (5) Subsection (1) does not apply to the prescribing of, or the
dispensing of a prescription for, health or medicinal products, and
nothing in any regulations made under subsection (4) applies to any
transaction in health or medicinal products; but the Minister for
Health may by regulations, which have effect despite anything in, or
in any subsidiary legislation made under, any other enactment —

       (a) prescribe what may be treated for the purposes of dealings
            with health or medicinal products as the equivalent of, or of
            any multiple or fraction of, any unit of measurement which
            is included in the First Schedule in terms of any other such
            unit;

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/06/2024]

       (b) require that any person carrying out any such dealing with
            health or medicinal products, as is specified in the
            regulations for the purposes of which the quantity of the
            health or medicinal products is expressed in terms of any
            such unit which is so specified, must carry out that dealing

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
11  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

           in terms of the equivalent quantity prescribed under
           paragraph (a) that is so specified.

                                                                             [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/06/2024]

(5A) In subsection (5), “health or medicinal product” means —

    (a) a health product as defined in section 2(1) of the Health
         Products Act 2007; or

       (b) a medicinal product as defined in section 3 of the
            Medicines Act 1975.

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/06/2024]

 (6) The Minister may by order amend the First Schedule by adding
to or removing from Parts 1 to 5 of that Schedule any unit of
measurement of length, of area, of volume, of capacity, or of mass or
weight, as the case may be.

Weighing or measuring instruments for use for trade

 7.—(1) This section applies to weighing or measuring instruments
of any class or description that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) A person must not —

       (a) supply for use for trade; or

       (b) use for trade, or have in the person’s possession for use for
            trade,

any weighing or measuring instrument to which this section applies
unless —

       (c) the instrument has been submitted to and passed as being
            fit for such use by an Authorised Verifier under section 7A
            or an inspector under section 7B; and

       (d) except as otherwise expressly provided under this Act or
            by regulations made under section 10, the instrument has
            been affixed with —

               (i) a stamp; and

              (ii) an Accuracy Label,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              12

       (d) indicating that it has been so passed, and both the stamp
            and Accuracy Label remain undefaced otherwise than by
            reason of fair wear and tear.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and any weighing or measuring instrument in respect of
which the offence was committed shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) Where —

(a) in accordance with regulations made under section 10, any
     weighing or measuring instrument is passed as fit for use
     for trade and affixed with a stamp and an Accuracy Label
     only after it has been installed at the place where it is used
     for trade; and

(b) the instrument is subsequently dismantled and reinstalled,
     whether in the same or some other place,

the instrument must not be used for trade after being so reinstalled
until it has been retested by an Authorised Verifier or inspector.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (5) Any person who —

(a) knowingly uses any weighing or measuring instrument in
     contravention of subsection (4);

(b) knowingly causes or permits any other person so to use it;
     or

          (c) knowing that the instrument is required under
              subsection (4) to be retested disposes of it to some other
              person without informing that other person of that
              requirement,

shall be guilty of an offence and the instrument shall be liable to be
forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Inspection and testing by Authorised Verifier

 7A.—(1) Any person requiring any weighing or measuring
instrument to which section 7 applies to be tested for its fitness for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
13  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

use for trade by an Authorised Verifier must submit the instrument to
the Authorised Verifier in the manner that the Authorised Verifier
may require.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) An Authorised Verifier may charge any fee that he or she may
determine for the testing of any weighing or measuring instrument
submitted to him or her under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) On payment of the fee, the Authorised Verifier must inspect the
weighing or measuring instrument and —

    (a) test the instrument for its fitness for use for trade by means
         of any method of testing, working standard and testing
         instrument that may be specified by the Controller; and

       (b) subject to the provisions of this Act and any regulations
            made under section 10, if the instrument being tested falls
            within the prescribed maximum permissible error, pass the
            instrument as being fit for use for trade and affix the
            instrument with a stamp and an Accuracy Label.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) If any difference arises between an Authorised Verifier and the
person who submitted the weighing or measuring instrument being
tested with respect to any method of testing, working standard or
testing instrument used under subsection (3)(a), that difference may
with the consent of that other person, and must at the request of that
other person, be referred to the Controller whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (5) Unless the Commission otherwise allows, an Authorised
Verifier must not pass, or affix a stamp or an Accuracy Label on,
any weighing or measuring instrument submitted to him or her under
subsection (1) unless a letter of pattern approval in respect of the
pattern of that instrument has been issued by the Controller under
section 8.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (6) Where any weighing or measuring instrument submitted to an
Authorised Verifier under subsection (1) is of a pattern in respect of
which a letter of pattern approval granted under section 8 is for the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              14

time being in force, or of such a pattern modified only in a manner for
the time being authorised by the Controller under that section, the
Authorised Verifier must not refuse to pass, or affix a stamp or an
Accuracy Label on, the instrument on the ground that it is not suitable
for use for trade.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (6), if the Authorised Verifier is
of the opinion that the weighing or measuring instrument is intended
for use for trade for a particular purpose for which it is not suitable, he
or she may refuse to pass it as fit for use for trade, or affix a stamp or
an Accuracy Label on it, until the matter has been referred to the
Controller whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (8) Where an Authorised Verifier refuses to pass as fit for use for
trade any weighing or measuring instrument, the Authorised Verifier
must —

(a) immediately give to the person in charge of that instrument
     written notice of his or her refusal in the form that the
     Controller may require; and

       (b) as soon as practicable, send a copy of the notice to the
            Controller.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (9) Where it is not possible or practicable to give a notice under
subsection (8)(a), the Authorised Verifier must attach the notice to the
weighing or measuring instrument to which the notice relates.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (10) Every Authorised Verifier must —

(a) keep a record of —

          (i) every inspection and test carried out by him or her
              under subsection (3); and

          (ii) every instance in which the Authorised Verifier
               breaks any stamp affixed on any weighing or
               measuring instrument; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
15  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (b) submit to the Controller, in the form, comprising the
         information and within the time that the Controller may
         require, together with any fee that may be prescribed —

    (i) a report on every inspection and test carried out by
        him or her under subsection (3); and

              (ii) a report on every instance in which the Authorised
                   Verifier breaks any stamp affixed on any weighing or
                   measuring instrument.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (11) Any Authorised Verifier who fails to keep any record referred
to in subsection (10)(a) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Inspection and testing by inspector

 7B.—(1) Any person requiring any weighing or measuring
instrument to which section 7 applies to be tested for its fitness for
use for trade by an inspector must submit the instrument to the
inspector in the manner that the Controller may direct.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) On payment by the person mentioned in subsection (1) of the
prescribed fee, the inspector must inspect the weighing or measuring
instrument and —

       (a) test the instrument by means of any method of testing,
            working standard and testing instrument that the inspector
            considers appropriate or, subject to any condition which
            may be prescribed, by means of any other instrument
            which has already been tested and which the inspector
            considers suitable for the purpose; and

       (b) subject to the provisions of this Act and any regulations
            made under section 10, if the instrument submitted falls
            within the prescribed maximum permissible error, pass the
            instrument as being fit for use for trade and affix the
            instrument with a stamp and an Accuracy Label.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) If any difference arises between an inspector and the person
who submitted the weighing or measuring instrument for testing with

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              16

respect to any method of testing, working standard or testing
instrument used under subsection (2)(a), that difference may with
the consent of that other person, and must at the request of that other
person, be referred to the Controller whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) Unless the Commission otherwise allows, an inspector must not
pass, or affix a stamp or an Accuracy Label on, any weighing or
measuring instrument submitted to him or her under subsection (1)
unless a letter of pattern approval in respect of the pattern of that
instrument has been issued by the Controller under section 8.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (5) Where any weighing or measuring instrument submitted to an
inspector under subsection (1) is of a pattern in respect of which a
letter of pattern approval granted under section 8 is for the time being
in force, or of such a pattern modified only in a manner for the time
being authorised by the Controller under that section, the inspector
must not refuse to pass, or affix a stamp or an Accuracy Label on, the
instrument on the ground that it is not suitable for use for trade.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), if the inspector is of the
opinion that the weighing or measuring instrument is intended for use
for trade for a particular purpose for which it is not suitable, he or she
may refuse to pass it as fit for use for trade, or affix a stamp or an
Accuracy Label on it, until the matter has been referred to the
Controller whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (7) Every inspector must keep a record of every inspection and test
carried out by him or her under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (8) Nothing in this section or section 7 requires any inspector to
inspect, test or pass any weighing or measuring instrument as fit for
use for the purpose of section 7 unless there is no Authorised Verifier
able to do so without unreasonable delay.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
17  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

Approved patterns of instruments for use for trade

 8.—(1) Any importer or manufacturer who intends, in the course of
any trade or business, to supply in Singapore any weighing or
measuring instrument to which section 7 applies must —

    (a) submit in the manner that the Controller may require the
         pattern of that instrument to the Controller for
         examination, together with any fee that may be
         prescribed; and

       (b) obtain from the Controller a letter of pattern approval
            signifying the suitability of that instrument for use for
            trade.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) Any importer or manufacturer who, in the course of any trade or
business, supplies in Singapore any weighing or measuring
instrument in respect of which a letter of pattern approval from the
Controller has not been obtained shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Upon receipt of the pattern of a weighing or measuring
instrument and any prescribed fee under subsection (1), the
Controller must, in the manner that may be prescribed, examine
the suitability for use for trade of the pattern of the weighing or
measuring instrument, having regard in particular to the principle,
materials and methods used or proposed to be used in its construction.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) If, upon completion of the examination under subsection (3), the
Controller is satisfied that the weighing or measuring instrument
examined is suitable for use for trade, then, subject to section 9(2), the
Controller —

    (a) must issue a letter of pattern approval of that pattern and
         cause particulars thereof to be published; and

       (b) may from time to time thereafter authorise any minor
            modifications thereof that he or she thinks fit and cause
            particulars of those modifications to be published.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (5) The requirements of subsection (4) as to the publication of the
particulars of any pattern or modification do not apply where the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              18

letter of pattern approval is issued subject to a condition that is
mentioned in subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (6) A letter of pattern approval issued under subsection (4) may be
granted subject to a condition that, except with the Controller’s
consent, the weighing or measuring instrument of the pattern
approval in question must be used for trade only for a specified
period or a specified purpose.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (7) Any person who, knowing that a condition mentioned in
subsection (6) has been imposed with respect to any weighing or
measuring instrument —

(a) uses, or causes or permits any other person to use, that
     instrument in contravention of that condition; or

(b) disposes of that instrument to any other person in a state in
     which it could be used for trade without informing that
     other person of that condition,

shall be guilty of an offence and the instrument shall be liable to be
forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (8) The Controller, after consultation with any person appearing to
the Controller to be interested that the Controller thinks fit, may at
any time revoke any letter of pattern approval or authorisation
granted under this section, and must cause notice of the revocation to
be published.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (9) Where the Controller has revoked any letter of pattern approval
or authorisation under subsection (8), any person who, knowing that
the letter of pattern approval or authorisation has been revoked, and
except as may be permitted by any fresh letter of pattern approval or
authorisation granted in respect thereof —

(a) uses for trade, or has in the person’s possession for such
     use, or causes or permits any other person so to use, any
     weighing or measuring instrument of the pattern or
     incorporating the modification in question; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
19  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (b) disposes of any such instrument to any other person in a
         state in which it could be so used without informing that
         other person of the revocation,

shall be guilty of an offence and the instrument shall be liable to be
forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (10) Any weighing or measuring instrument of a pattern in respect
of which a letter of pattern approval has been granted under this
section may, and in the cases that may be prescribed, must, be marked
in the manner that may be prescribed so as to identify it with the
pattern in question.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

General specifications of instruments for use for trade

 9.—(1) The Minister may by regulations prescribe general
specifications for the construction of weighing or measuring
instruments to which section 7 applies.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), where any general specification is for
the time being prescribed under subsection (1), a letter of pattern
approval must not be issued under section 8 in respect of the pattern
of any weighing or measuring instrument unless the pattern complies
with the prescribed general specifications.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Where any specification prescribed by regulations made under
this section is varied or revoked by further regulations made under
this section, then if any person uses for trade, or has in the person’s
possession for such use, or causes or permits any other person so to
use, any instrument which conformed with that specification but
which to the person’s knowledge no longer conforms to any
specification so prescribed, or disposes of any such instrument to
any other person in a state in which it could be so used without
informing that other person that it no longer so conforms, the person
shall be guilty of an offence and the instrument shall be liable to be
forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              20

 (4) Where, in the case of any particular instrument, the Controller is
of the opinion that there are special circumstances which make it
impracticable or unnecessary for that instrument to comply with any
particular requirement of any specification prescribed under this
section, the Controller may exempt that instrument from that
requirement subject to compliance with the conditions (if any) that
he or she thinks fit; and if any person knowingly contravenes any
condition imposed with respect to any instrument by virtue of this
subsection, the person shall be guilty of an offence and the instrument
shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Regulations relating to weighing or measuring instruments for
trade

 10.—(1) The Minister may make regulations with respect to —

       (a) the materials and principles of construction of weighing or
            measuring instruments for use for trade;

       (b) the inspection, testing and passing as fit for use for trade of
            weighing or measuring instruments, and stamps and
            Accuracy Labels and the affixing thereof, including —

               (i) the circumstances in which the affixing of stamps
                   and Accuracy Labels on weighing or measuring
                   instruments are prohibited or are not necessary;

              (ii) prohibiting the affixing of stamps or Accuracy
                   Labels or both on prescribed instruments and
                   requiring them to be affixed elsewhere;

             (iii) the period for which stamps and Accuracy Labels are
                   to remain in force;

             (iv) the circumstances in which an inspector may remove
                   or detain any weighing or measuring instrument for
                   inspection or testing; and

              (v) the marking of any weighing or measuring
                   instrument found unfit for use for trade;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
21  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (c) the circumstances in which, conditions under which and
        manner in which stamps may be obliterated or defaced and
        Accuracy Labels cancelled;

    (d) the retesting of weighing or measuring instruments passed
         as fit for use for trade;

    (e) the purposes for which particular types of weighing or
        measuring instruments may be used for trade;

    (f) the manner of erection or use of weighing or measuring
        instruments used for trade;

    (g) the abbreviations of or symbols for units of measurement
         which may be used for trade; and

       (h) the manner in which the tare weight of road vehicles, or of
            road vehicles of any particular class or description, is to be
            determined.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) The regulations made under subsection (1) may provide that any
contravention of the regulations is an offence punishable with a fine
not exceeding $2,000, and that any weighing or measuring instrument
in respect of which the contravention was committed shall be liable to
be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Where in the special circumstances of any particular case it
appears to be impracticable or unnecessary that any requirement of
any regulations made under this section should be complied with, the
Minister may if he or she thinks fit dispense with the observance of
that requirement subject to compliance with the conditions (if any)
that he or she thinks fit to impose, and if any person knowingly
contravenes any condition imposed with respect to any instrument by
virtue of this subsection the person shall be guilty of an offence and
the instrument shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Offences in connection with affixing of stamps and Accuracy
Labels on instruments

 11.—(1) Any person who, in the case of any weighing or measuring
instrument used or intended to be used for trade —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              22

(a) not being an Authorised Verifier or an inspector or a person
     acting under the instructions of an Authorised Verifier or
     inspector —

          (i) inspects, tests or passes as fit for use for trade the
              instrument for the purposes of this Act;

          (ii) affixes any stamp or Accuracy Label on the
               instrument; or

          (iii) marks in any manner any plug or seal used or
                designed for use for the reception of a stamp;

(b) forges, counterfeits or, except as permitted under this Act,
     in any way alters or defaces any stamp or Accuracy Label;

          (c) removes any stamp or Accuracy Label and inserts it onto
              any other such instrument; or

(d) makes any alteration in the instrument after it has been
     affixed with a stamp or an Accuracy Label such as to make
     it false or unjust,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                     [30/2005]

 (2) Subsection (1)(a)(iii) and (b) does not apply to the destruction
or obliteration of any stamp, plug, seal or Accuracy Label in the
course of the adjustment or repair of any weighing or measuring
instrument by, or by the duly authorised agent of, a person who is a
manufacturer of, or regularly engaged in the business of repairing,
such instrument.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Any person who uses for trade or supplies any weighing or
measuring instrument which to the person’s knowledge —

(a) bears a stamp or an Accuracy Label which is a forgery or
     counterfeit, or which has been transferred from another
     instrument, or which has been altered or defaced otherwise
     than as permitted under this Act; or

(b) is false or unjust as the result of an alteration made in the
     instrument after it has been affixed with a stamp or an
     Accuracy Label,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
23  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                               [30/2005]

 (4) Any weighing or measuring instrument in respect of which an
offence under this section is committed, and any stamp or instrument
for the affixing of stamps and Accuracy Labels used in the
commission of the offence, shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Power to ban use of weighing or measuring instrument

 12.—(1) The Minister may by order prohibit the use of any
weighing or measuring instrument for any purposes that he or she
may specify, even though the weighing or measuring instrument has
been inspected, tested and passed as fit for use for trade under this
Part, if the Minister is satisfied that the use of such weighing or
measuring instrument should be discontinued for any purposes that
may be specified in the order.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) If any person uses for trade, or has in the person’s possession for
trade, any weighing or measuring instrument to which an order made
under subsection (1) applies, the person shall be guilty of an offence
and the instrument shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 13. [Repealed by Act 30 of 2005]

Other offences in connection with instruments

 14.—(1) If any person uses for trade, or has in the person’s
possession for use for trade, any weighing or measuring instrument
which is false or unjust, the person shall be guilty of an offence and
the instrument shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) Without affecting the liability of any weighing or measuring
instrument to be forfeited, it is a defence for any person charged with
an offence under subsection (1) to show —

       (a) in respect of the use for trade of the weighing or measuring
            instrument, that —

               (i) the person used the instrument only in the course of
                   his or her employment by some other person; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              24

          (ii) the person neither knew, nor had any reason to
               suspect, that the instrument was false or unjust; or

(b) in respect of the use for trade or the possession for use for
     trade of the weighing or measuring instrument, that —

          (i) the use or possession of the instrument took place
              during a period of 12 months immediately following
              the month in which an Accuracy Label for the
              instrument was issued; and

              (ii) the person neither knew, nor had any reason to
                   suspect, that the instrument was false or unjust.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) If any fraud is committed in the using of any weighing or
measuring instrument for trade, the person committing the fraud and
any other person who is a party to the fraud shall be guilty of an
offence and the instrument shall be liable to be forfeited.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Evidence of possession of instruments for use for trade

 15. Where any weighing or measuring instrument is found in the
possession of any person carrying on trade or on any premises which
are used for trade, that person or (as the case may be) the occupier of
those premises is deemed for the purposes of this Act, unless the
contrary is proved, to have that instrument in his, her or its possession
for use for trade.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                    PART 4

   REGULATION OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS IN GOODS

Transactions in particular goods

 16.—(1) The Minister may by order make provision with respect to
any goods specified in the order for all or any of the following
purposes, that is to say, to ensure that, except in the cases or in the
circumstances that may be so specified, the goods in question:

       (a) are sold only by quantity expressed in the manner that may
            be so specified;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
25  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (b) are prepacked, or are otherwise made up in or on a
         container for sale or for delivery after sale, only if the
         container is marked with the information as to the quantity
         of the goods that may be so specified;

    (c) are sold, or are prepacked, or are otherwise made up in or
        on a container for sale or for delivery after sale, or are made
        for sale, only in the quantities that may be so specified;

    (d) are not sold without the quantity sold expressed as
         aforesaid being made known to the buyer at or before
         the time that may be so specified;

    (e) are sold by means of, or are offered or exposed for sale in, a
        vending machine only if there is displayed on or in the
        machine —

    (i) the information as to the quantity of the goods in
        question comprised in each item for sale by means of
        that machine that may be so specified; and

    (ii) a statement of the name and address of the seller;

    (f) are carried for reward only pursuant to an agreement made
        by reference to the quantity of the goods in question
        expressed as aforesaid;

    (g) in the circumstances that may be so specified, have
         associated therewith in the manner that may be so
         specified a document containing a statement of the
         quantity of the goods in question expressed in the
         manner and a statement of the other particulars (if any)
         that may be specified;

    (h) when carried on a road vehicle along a road are
         accompanied by a document containing the particulars
         determined in the manner that may be so specified as to the
         weight of the vehicle and its load apart from the goods in
         question;

    (i) are not to be sold or prepacked for sale by any weight or
        measure which is not a unit of the metric system; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              26

      (j) are not to be sold, advertised or displayed for sale at a price
           other than a price expressed by reference to a prescribed
           metric quantity.

                                                                                                         [30/2005]

(2) An order under subsection (1) may —

(a) provide for any of the purposes mentioned in
     subsection (1) in any manner, whether by means of
     amending, or of applying with or without modifications,
     or of excluding the application in whole or in part of, any
     provision of this Act or of any previous order made under
     subsection (1) or otherwise;

(b) make (if any) different provisions for retail and other sales
     respectively and for the provisions to be in force in any
     places or districts in Singapore that are so specified; and

          (c) contain any consequential, incidental or supplementary
              provision, whether by the means as aforesaid or otherwise,

that may appear to the Minister to be expedient, and may in particular
provide in respect of contraventions of the order for which no penalty
is provided by this Act for the imposition of penalties not exceeding
those provided by section 35 for an offence under this Act.

(3) The Minister may make regulations —

(a) as to the manner in which any container required by any
     order made under subsection (1) to be marked with
     information as to the quantity of the goods made up in
     the container is to be so marked;

(b) as to the manner in which any information required by any
     such provision as aforesaid to be displayed on or in a
     vending machine is to be so displayed;

          (c) as to the conditions which must be satisfied in marking
              with information as to the quantity of goods made up
              therein the container in or on which any goods are made up
              for sale (whether by way of prepacking or otherwise)
              where those goods are goods on a sale of which (whether
              any sale or a sale of any particular description) the quantity
              of the goods sold is required by any such provision as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
27  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    aforesaid to be made known to the buyer at or before a
    particular time;

    (d) as to the units of measurement to be used in marking any
         such container or machine as aforesaid with any
         information as to quantity;

    (e) for securing, in the case of prepacked goods, that the
        container is so marked as to enable the packer to be
        identified;

    (f) as to the method by which and conditions under which
        quantity is to be determined in connection with any
        information with respect to quantity required by this
        section; and

    (g) permitting in the case of the goods and in the
         circumstances that may be specified in the regulations
         the weight of any articles used in making up the goods for
         sale that may be so specified to be included in the net
         weight of the goods for the purpose of this Act,

and any person who contravenes any regulations made under this
subsection otherwise than by virtue of paragraph (f) or (g) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) The Minister may by order grant and from time to time vary or
revoke, with respect to goods or sales of any descriptions that may be
specified in the order or exemption, either generally or in the
circumstances that may be so specified, from all or any requirements
imposed by this section; and, until otherwise provided by such an
order, the following are exempted from all such requirements:

    (a) goods made up in or on a container for sale only for use by
         the Singapore Armed Forces or by a visiting force within
         the meaning of any of the provisions of Part 2 of the
         Visiting Forces Act 1960 and not sold or offered, exposed
         or in any person’s possession for sale for any other use;

    (b) any sale of goods in the case of which the buyer gives
         written notice to the seller before the sale is completed that
         the goods are being bought —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              28

          (i) for despatch to a destination outside Singapore; or

          (ii) for use as stores within the meaning of the Customs
               Act 1960 in a ship or aircraft on a voyage or flight to
               an eventual destination outside Singapore;

          (c) any goods sold for, or offered, exposed or in any person’s
              possession for sale only for, use or consumption at the
              premises of the seller;

(d) any assortment of articles of food prepacked together for
     consumption together as a meal and ready for such
     consumption without being cooked, heated or otherwise
     prepared.

                                                                                                 [30/2005]

Offences in transactions in particular goods

 17.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, in the case of any
goods which, when not prepacked, are required by this Act to be sold
only by quantity expressed in a particular manner or only in a
particular quantity, any person who —

       (a) whether on the person’s own behalf or on behalf of another
            person, offers or exposes for sale, sells or agrees to sell; or

       (b) causes or suffers any other person to offer or expose for
            sale, sell or agree to sell on the firstmentioned person’s
            behalf,

those goods otherwise than by quantity expressed in that manner or
(as the case may be) otherwise than in that quantity, shall be guilty of
an offence.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Part, in the case of any goods
required by this Act to be prepacked, or to be otherwise made up in or
on a container for sale or for delivery after sale, or to be made for sale,
only in particular quantities, or to be prepacked, or to be otherwise
made up as aforesaid, only if the container is marked with particular
information, any person who —

       (a) whether on the person’s own behalf or on behalf of another
            person, has in the person’s possession for sale, sells or
            agrees to sell;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
29  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (b) except in the course of carriage of the goods for reward,
         has in the person’s possession for delivery after sale; or

    (c) causes or suffers any other person to have in that other
        person’s possession for sale or for delivery after sale, sell
        or agree to sell on behalf of the firstmentioned person,

any such goods prepacked, otherwise made up as aforesaid or made
otherwise than in that quantity or otherwise than in or on a container
so marked (as the case may be), whether the sale is, or is to be, by
retail or otherwise, shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Part, in the case of any sale
where the quantity of the goods sold expressed in a particular manner
is required by this Act to be made known to the buyer at or before a
particular time and that quantity is not so made known, the person by
whom, and any other person on whose behalf, the goods were sold
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Part, where any goods required
by this Act to be sold by means of, or to be offered or exposed for sale
in, a vending machine only if certain requirements are complied with
are so sold, offered or exposed without those requirements being
complied with, the seller or person causing the goods to be so offered
or exposed shall be guilty of an offence.

Sale of goods in metric units

 18.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, any person who —

       (a) in relation to any matter, work, goods or other thing, makes
            or enters into any contract, or engages in any dealing or
            transaction, by reference to any weight or measure other
            than a weight or measure of the metric system;

       (b) uses for trade any weight or measure other than a weight or
            measure of the metric system;

       (c) uses for trade any weighing or measuring instrument other
            than a weighing or measuring instrument which weighs or
            measures only by reference to weights or measures other
            than weights or measures of the metric system; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              30

(d) in the course of or for the purposes of any trade or business,
     uses, whether on any package, or in any price list or
     advertisement or otherwise, any unit of a weight or
     measure other than a weight or measure of the metric
     system, in advertising, displaying, or exposing goods for
     sale,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                     [30/2005]

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1)(d) applies to the use by any person of
any unit of a weight or measure which is not a unit of a weight or
measure of the metric system on any goods displayed or exposed for
sale by retail or on the package of any such goods or on both if —

(a) that unit is additional to a unit of a weight or measure of the
     metric system; and

(b) that unit, the figures in which that unit and the numerical
     value of that unit are marked no larger than those of that
     metric weight or measure.

                                                                                                 [30/2005]

Short weight, etc.

 19.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, any person who, in
selling or purporting to sell any goods by weight or other
measurement or by number, delivers or causes to be delivered to
the buyer a lesser quantity than that purported to be sold or than
corresponds with the price charged, shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Part, any person who —

       (a) on or in connection with the sale or purchase of any goods;

       (b) in exposing or offering any goods for sale;

       (c) in purporting to make known to the buyer of any goods the
            quantity of any goods sold; or

       (d) in offering to purchase any goods,

makes any misrepresentation either by word of mouth or otherwise as
to the quantity of the goods, or does any other act calculated to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
31  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

mislead a person buying or selling the goods as to the quantity of the
goods, shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Any person who sells or offers or exposes for sale, or has in the
person’s possession for sale, by weight, measure or number, any
goods enclosed in a package that states the quantity of the goods or
that has a label attached to it stating the quantity of the goods shall be
guilty of an offence if the weight, measure or number of the goods in
the package is less than that stated on the package or label.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) In subsection (3), “goods” includes catch weight goods.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (3), the weight, measure or
number of the goods (other than catch weight goods) in a package is
deemed to be the same as that stated on the package or label on the
package if —

    (a) the package meets the conditions prescribed by regulations
         made under section 37; or

       (b) the package is one package in a lot of packages that meets
            the conditions prescribed by regulations made under
            section 37.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (6) It is a defence for any person charged with an offence under this
section in respect of a package from a lot of packages containing
desiccating goods to prove that —

    (a) at any time on the day the package was made up or during a
         period of 7 days beginning on the day after the day the
         package was made up —

    (i) the weighed average quantity of any sample taken
        from the lot of packages, as determined in
        accordance with regulations made under
        section 37, was equal to or exceeded the quantity
        stated on the package or a label attached to it;

    (ii) the number of non-standard packages in any sample
         taken from the lot of packages was equal to or less

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              32

          than the appropriate number specified for the
          purpose in regulations made under section 37; and

          (iii) there were no inadequate packages in any sample
                taken from the lot of packages; or

       (b) at any time, after the close of the period specified in
            paragraph (a), a sample taken from the lot of packages
            contained no inadequate packages.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (7) For the purposes of this section, any statement, whether oral or
in writing, as to the weight of any goods is deemed, unless otherwise
expressed, to be a statement as to the net weight of the goods.

(8) Nothing in this section applies —

(a) in relation to any goods or sales that are mentioned in
     section 16(4)(a) or (b); and

(b) in relation to the sales of goods with a view to their
     industrial or constructional use, except —

          (i) where the sale in question is or would be one which
              is required by this Act to be made only by quantity
              expressed in a particular manner or in the case of
              which the quantity of the goods sold is required by
              any provision of this Act to be made known to the
              buyer at or before a particular time;

          (ii) where the goods are prepacked or otherwise made up
               in or on a container for sale or for delivery after sale
               and are goods such as are required by this Act to be
               prepacked, or to be otherwise so made up, (as the
               case may be) only if the container is marked with an
               indication of quantity or only in particular quantities;
               or

          (iii) where the goods are goods such as are required by
                this Act to be made for sale only in particular
                quantities.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
33  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

Pleading of warranty as defence

 20.—(1) Subject to this section, in any proceedings for an offence
under this Part or any subsidiary legislation made under this Part,
being an offence relating to the quantity or prepacking of any goods,
it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

    (a) that the person bought the goods from some other
         person —

    (i) as being of the quantity which the person charged
        purported to sell or represented, or which was
        marked on any container or stated in any document
        to which the proceedings relate; or

    (ii) as conforming with the statement marked on any
         container to which the proceedings relate, or with the
         requirements of this Act and any subsidiary
         legislation made under this Act with respect to the
         prepacking of goods,

    (a) as the case may require;

    (b) that the person so bought the goods with a written warranty
         from that other person that they were of that quantity or (as
         the case may be) did so conform;

    (c) that at the time of the commission of the offence the person
        had no reason to believe the statement contained in the
        warranty to be inaccurate, that the person did in fact
        believe in its accuracy and, if the warranty was given by a
        person who at the time of giving the warranty was resident
        outside Singapore, that the person charged had taken
        reasonable steps to check the accuracy of that statement;
        and

    (d) in the case of proceedings relating to the quantity of any
         goods, that the person took all reasonable steps to ensure
         that, while in the person’s possession the quantity of the
         goods remained unchanged and, in the case of such or any
         other proceedings, that apart from any change in their
         quantity the goods were at the time of the commission of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              34

          the offence in the same state as when the person bought
          them.

 (2) A warranty is a defence in such proceedings only if, not later
than 7 days before the date of the hearing, the person charged has sent
to the prosecutor a copy of the warranty with a notice stating that the
person charged intends to rely on it and specifying the name and
address of the person from whom the warranty was received, and has
also sent a like notice to that person.

 (3) Where the person charged is a servant of a person who, if the
second‑mentioned person had been charged, would have been
entitled to plead a warranty as a defence under this section,
subsection (1) has effect as if any reference (however expressed) in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of that subsection to the person charged, other
than the first such reference in paragraph (c) of that subsection, were a
reference to the employer of the person charged.

 (4) The person by whom the warranty is alleged to have been given
is entitled to appear at the hearing and to give evidence.

 (5) If the person charged in any such proceedings wilfully attributes
to any goods a warranty given in relation to any other goods, the
person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (6) A person who, in respect of any goods sold by the person in
respect of which a warranty might be pleaded under this section,
gives to the buyer a false warranty in writing shall be guilty of an
offence unless the person proves that when the person gave the
warranty the person took all reasonable steps to ensure that the
statements contained in the warranty were, and would continue at all
relevant times to be, accurate.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, any statement with respect to
any goods which is contained in any document required by this Act to
be associated with the goods or in any invoice, and, in the case of
goods made up in or on a container for sale or for delivery after sale,
any statement with respect to those goods with which that container is
marked, is deemed to be a written warranty of the accuracy of that
statement.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
35  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

Additional defences and safeguards for traders

 21.—(1) In any proceedings for an offence in respect of any goods
under this Part or any subsidiary legislation made under this Part, it is
a defence for the person charged to prove —

    (a) that the commission of the offence was due to a mistake, or
         to an accident or some other cause beyond the person’s
         control; and

    (b) that the person took all reasonable precautions and
         exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of
         the offence in respect of those goods by the person or any
         person under the person’s control.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under this Part or any
subsidiary legislation made under this Part by reason of the
quantity —

    (a) of any goods made up for sale or for delivery after sale
         (whether by way of prepacking or otherwise) or in or on a
         container marked with an indication of quantity;

    (b) of any goods which, in connection with a sale or agreement
         for the sale of the goods, have associated therewith a
         document purporting to state the quantity of the goods; or

    (c) of any goods required by this Act to be prepacked, or to be
        otherwise made up in or on a container for sale or for
        delivery after sale, or to be made for sale, only in particular
        quantities,

being less than that marked on the container or stated in the document
in question or than the relevant particular quantity (as the case may
be), it is a defence for the person charged to prove that the deficiency
arose —

    (d) in a case falling within paragraph (a), after the making up
         of the goods and the marking of the container;

    (e) in a case falling within paragraph (b), after the preparation
        of the goods for delivery pursuant to the sale or agreement
        and after the completion of the document; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              36

          (f) in the case falling within paragraph (c), after the making up
              or making (as the case may be) of the goods for sale,

and was attributable wholly to factors for which reasonable
allowance was made in stating the quantity of the goods in the
marking or document or in making up or making the goods for sale, as
the case may be.

 (3) In the case of a sale by retail of food, not being food prepacked
in a container which is, or is required by this Act to be, marked with
an indication of quantity, in any proceedings for an offence under this
Part or any subsidiary legislation made under this Part by reason of
the quantity delivered to the buyer being less than that purported to be
sold, it is a defence for the person charged to prove that the deficiency
was due wholly to unavoidable evaporation or drainage since the sale
and that due care and precaution were taken to minimise any such
evaporation or drainage.

 (4) Without affecting any defence under subsection (2) or (3), in
any proceedings for such an offence in respect of any goods as is
mentioned in subsection (2) it is not a defence under subsection (1)(a)
for the person charged to prove that the commission of the offence
was due to some cause beyond the person’s control if that cause was
one which should reasonably have been foreseen and for which
allowance could reasonably have been made in stating the quantity of
the goods or in making up or making the goods, as the case may be.

 (5) If in any proceedings for an offence under this Part or any
subsidiary legislation made under this Part, being an offence in
respect of any deficiency in the quantity of any goods sold, it is shown
that between the sale and the discovery of the deficiency the goods
were with the consent of the buyer subjected to treatment which could
result in a reduction in the quantity of those goods for delivery to, or
to any person nominated in that behalf by, the buyer, the person
charged must not be found guilty of that offence unless it is shown
that the deficiency cannot be accounted for by the subjecting of the
goods to that treatment.

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under this Part or any
subsidiary legislation made under this Part, being an offence in
respect of any excess in the quantity of any goods, it is a defence for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
37  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

the person charged to prove that the excess was attributable to the
taking of measures reasonably necessary in order to avoid the
commission of an offence in respect of a deficiency in those or other
goods.

 (7) If proceedings for an offence under this Part or any subsidiary
legislation made under this Part in respect of any deficiency or excess
in the quantity —

    (a) of any goods made up for sale (whether by way of
         prepacking or otherwise) in or on a container marked with
         an indication of quantity;

    (b) of any goods which have been prepacked or otherwise
         made up in or on a container for sale or for delivery after
         sale, or which have been made for sale, and which are
         required by this Act to be prepacked, or to be otherwise so
         made up, or to be so made, (as the case may be) only in
         particular quantities,

are brought with respect to any article, and it is proved that, at the
time and place at which that article was tested, other articles of the
same kind, being articles which, or articles containing goods which,
had been sold by the person charged or were in that person’s
possession for sale or for delivery after sale, were available for
testing, the person charged must not be convicted of such an offence
with respect to that article unless a reasonable number of those other
articles was also tested; and in any proceedings for such an offence
the court —

    (c) if the proceedings are with respect to one or more of a
        number of articles tested on the same occasion, is to have
        regard to the average quantity in all the articles tested;

    (d) if the proceedings are with respect to a single article, is to
         disregard any inconsiderable deficiency or excess; and

    (e) is to have regard generally to all the circumstances of the
        case.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              38

Offence relating to document containing particular statements

 21A. If, in the case of any goods required by this Act to have
associated therewith a document containing particular statements,
that document is found to contain any such statement which is
materially incorrect, any person who, knowing or having reasonable
cause to suspect that statement to be materially incorrect, inserted it
or caused it to be inserted in the document, or used the document for
the purposes of this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this
Act while that statement was contained in the document, shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Offences due to default of third person

 22.—(1) A person against whom proceedings are brought for an
offence under this Part or any subsidiary legislation made under this
Part is, upon information duly laid by the person and on giving to the
prosecutor not less than 7 clear days’ notice of the person’s intention
to avail himself, herself or itself of this subsection entitled to have
brought before the court in those proceedings any other person to
whose act or default the person alleges that the commission of the
offence was due; and if, after the offence has been proved, the original
defendant proves that the commission of the offence was due to an act
or default of that other person —

       (a) that other person may be convicted of the offence; and

       (b) if the original defendant further proves that the original
            defendant exercised all due diligence to avoid the
            commission of the offence by the original defendant or
            any person under the original defendant’s control, the
            original defendant must be acquitted of the offence.

 (2) Where a defendant seeks to avail himself, herself or itself of
subsection (1) —

       (a) the prosecutor, as well as the person whom the defendant
            charges with the offence, has the right to cross‑examine the
            defendant, if the defendant gives evidence, and any witness
            called by the defendant in support of the defendant’s pleas,
            and to call rebutting evidence; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
39  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (b) the court may make any order that it thinks fit for the
         payment of costs by any party to the proceedings to any
         other party to the proceedings.

 (3) Where it appears to any authority by or on behalf of whom
proceedings of such an offence may be instituted that such an offence
has been committed by some person (A), and that authority is
reasonably satisfied that the offence was due to an act or default of
some other person (B) and that A could establish a defence under
subsection (1), that authority may take or authorise the taking of
proceedings against B without first taking or authorising the taking of
proceedings against A; and in any such proceedings B may be charged
with, and, on proof that the commission of the offence was due to B’s
act or default, be convicted of, the offence with which A might have
been charged.

 (4) Where by virtue of subsection (3) a person is charged with an
offence with which some other person might have been charged, the
reference in section 21(7) to articles or goods sold by or in the
possession of the person charged is to be construed as a reference to
articles or goods sold by or in the possession of that other person.

Offences originating in countries outside Singapore

 23.—(1) Where proceedings are brought against any person for an
offence under this Part or any subsidiary legislation made under this
Part and it is proved —

       (a) that the commission of the offence was due to an act or
            default of some other person which took place outside
            Singapore; and

       (b) that the person charged took all reasonable precautions and
            exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of the
            offence by the person charged or any person under the
            control of the person charged,

then, subject to subsection (2), the person charged must be acquitted
of the offence.

 (2) The person charged (A) is not entitled to be acquitted under this
section unless within 7 days from the date of the service of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              40

summons on A, A has given written notice to the prosecutor of A’s
intention to rely on this section, specifying the name and address of
the person (B) to whose act or default A alleges that the commission
of the offence was due, and has sent a like notice to B; and B is
entitled to appear at the hearing and to give evidence.

Special powers of inspector with respect to certain goods

 24.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), where any person —

       (a) makes in any manner any representation as to the quantity
            of any goods offered or exposed for sale by the person;

       (b) has in the person’s possession or charge awaiting or in the
            course of delivery to the buyer any goods which have been
            sold or agreed to be sold, and the sale is, or purports to be,
            or is required by this Act to be, by quantity expressed in a
            particular manner, or is such that the quantity of the goods
            sold is required by any provision of this Act to be made
            known to the buyer at or before a particular time; or

       (c) has in the person’s possession or charge for sale, or
            awaiting or in the course of delivery to a buyer after they
            have been sold or agreed to be sold, any goods prepacked
            or otherwise made up in or on a container for sale or for
            delivery after sale which are required by this Act to be
            prepacked, or to be otherwise so made up (as the case may
            be), only in particular quantities or only if the container is
            marked with particular information, or any goods
            prepacked in or on a container marked with an indication
            of quantity, or any goods required by this Act to be made
            for sale only in particular quantities,

the powers of an inspector under section 30 include power to require
that person either to do in the inspector’s presence, or to permit the
inspector to do, all or any of the following things:

       (d) weigh or otherwise measure or count the goods;

       (e) weigh any container in or on which the goods are made up;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
41  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (f) if necessary for the purposes of either paragraph (d) or (e),
        break open any such container or open any vending
        machine in which the goods are offered or exposed for sale,

and, in the case of any of the goods which are not already sold, power
to require that person to sell any of them to the inspector.

 (2) Where the container or package of any prepacked goods is
broken open under subsection (1), the inspector is not under any
obligation to re‑seal the container or package or pay for the goods,
whether on behalf of the Controller or otherwise.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Nothing in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) applies in relation to the
sale of goods with a view to their industrial or constructional use
except in such a case as is specified in section 19(8)(b)(i), (ii) or (iii).

Powers of inspector with respect to certain documents

 25.—(1) An inspector, subject to the production if so requested of
his or her authority in writing, may require the person in charge of any
document required by this Act to be associated with any goods to
produce that document for inspection.

 (2) If the inspector has reasonable cause to believe that any
document produced to him or her under subsection (1) contains any
inaccurate statement, the inspector may either —

       (a) seize and detain the document, giving in exchange for the
            document a copy of the document with an endorsement
            signed by him or her certifying that the original has been
            seized and giving particulars of any inaccuracy alleged; or

       (b) without prejudice to any proceedings which may be taken
            by reason of any inaccuracy alleged, make on the
            document an endorsement signed by him or her giving
            particulars of any such inaccuracy,

and, save where the context otherwise requires, any reference in this
Act to any such document is deemed to include a reference to a copy
of such document given pursuant to paragraph (a).

 (3) Where, in the case of any goods being carried on a road vehicle,
the whole of the vehicle’s load is being carried for, or for delivery

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              42

after sale to the same person, and any document produced pursuant to
subsection (1) by the person in charge of the vehicle purports, or is
required by this Act, to state the quantity of the goods, then, for the
purpose of the exercise of his or her powers under section 24(1), the
inspector may do all or any of the following things:

(a) require the goods to which the document relates to be
     unloaded from the vehicle;

(b) require the vehicle to be taken to the nearest suitable and
     available weighing or measuring instrument;

          (c) require the person in charge of the vehicle to have it
              check‑weighed:

      Provided that the powers conferred by this subsection are to be
exercised only to the extent that appears to the inspector reasonably
necessary in order to secure that the provisions of this Act and any
subsidiary legislation made under this Act are duly observed.

                                                                     [30/2005]

Check-weighing of certain road vehicles

 26. Where any road vehicle is loaded with goods for sale by weight
to a single buyer of the whole of the vehicle’s load, or for delivery to
the buyer after they have been so sold, the buyer or seller of the
goods, or any inspector who shows that he or she is authorised to do
so by the buyer or seller of the goods, may require the person in
charge of the vehicle to have it check‑weighed, and if that person
without reasonable cause fails to comply with any such requirement
that person shall be guilty of an offence.

Power to make test purchases

 27. An inspector has power to make any purchases of goods that
may appear to him or her to be expedient for the purpose of
determining whether or not the provisions of this Act and any
subsidiary legislation made under this Act are being complied with.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
43  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

Selling by quantity, making quantity known, and weighing in
presence

 28.—(1) Where any goods are required by this Act to be sold by
quantity expressed in a particular manner —

    (a) it is sufficient compliance with that requirement in the case
         of any sale of, or agreement to sell, any such goods if the
         quantity of the goods expressed in the manner in question
         is made known to the buyer before the purchase price is
         agreed;

    (b) no person shall be guilty of an offence under section 17(1)
         by reason of the exposing or offering for sale of such goods
         at any time if both the quantity of the goods expressed in
         the manner in question and the price at which they are
         exposed or offered for sale are made known at that time to
         any prospective buyer.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act and any subsidiary legislation made
under this Act, without prejudice to any other method of making
known to a person the quantity of any goods expressed in a particular
manner, that quantity is deemed to be made known to that person —

    (a) if the goods are weighed or otherwise measured or
         counted, as the case may require, in the presence of that
         person;

    (b) if the goods are made up in or on a container marked with a
         statement in writing of the quantity of the goods expressed
         in the manner in question and the container is readily
         available for inspection by that person; or

    (c) upon such a statement in writing being delivered to that
        person.

 (3) Where the Minister by order provides that this subsection is to
apply, in the case of the goods in the circumstances that are specified
in the order, to any requirement so specified under this Act or any
subsidiary legislation made under this Act with respect to the making
known to the buyer of the quantity by weight of such goods sold by
retail, then, in any case to which the order applies, that requirement is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              44

deemed to be satisfied if the goods are bought at premises at which
any weighing instrument of such description as may be prescribed —

(a) is kept available by the occupier of those premises for use
     without charge by any prospective buyer of such goods for
     the purpose of weighing for himself, herself or itself any
     such goods offered or exposed for sale by retail on those
     premises;

(b) is so kept available in a position on those premises which is
     suitable and convenient for such use of the instrument; and

          (c) is reserved for use for that purpose at all times while those
              premises are open for retail transactions,

and a notice of the availability of the instrument for such use is
displayed in a position on the premises where it may be readily seen
by any such prospective buyer.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) For the purposes of this Act and any subsidiary legislation made
under this Act, a person is not to be deemed to weigh or otherwise
measure or count any goods in the presence of any other person
unless the firstmentioned person causes any instrument used for the
purpose to be so placed, and so conducts the operation of weighing or
otherwise measuring or counting the goods, as to permit that other
person a clear and unobstructed view of the instrument (if any) and of
the operation, and of any indication of quantity given by any such
instrument as the result of that operation.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Selling by retail by weight, measure or number

 28A.—(1) Any person who offers or exposes for sale by retail by
weight, measure or number goods which are not prepackaged when
so offered or exposed for sale must weigh, measure or count the
goods —

       (a) at the time of sale;

       (b) in the presence of the buyer; and

       (c) in the case of goods sold by weight or measure, by means
            of a suitable weighing or measuring instrument.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
45  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who offers or exposes for sale by retail by weight,
measure or number goods which are prepackaged and weighed,
measured or counted before they are so offered or exposed for sale at
the premises or place where they are so offered or exposed for sale
must, at the buyer’s request, weigh, measure or count the goods —

    (a) in the presence of the buyer; and

       (b) in the case of goods sold by weight or measure, by means
            of a suitable weighing or measuring instrument.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Every weighing or measuring instrument used to weigh or
measure goods for the purposes of this section and any necessary
weights or measures must be so situated that the weighing or
measuring of the goods and the recorded or indicated weight or
measurement of the goods can be easily seen by the buyer.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) Any person who contravenes this section shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                    PART 5

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act

 29.—(1) The Commission is responsible for the administration of
this Act subject to the general and special directions of the Minister.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) The Commission may appoint a Controller of Weights and
Measures and any other number of inspectors of weights and
measures and other officers that it thinks necessary (under whatever
title the Commission may from time to time determine) for the
purposes of this Act, who must discharge their functions and duties,
and exercise their powers, subject to the direction and control of the
Commission.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              46

 (3) All officers appointed under this Act are deemed to be public
servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

Appointment of Authorised Verifiers

 29A.—(1) The Commission may appoint any person to be an
Authorised Verifier for the purposes of this Act and any subsidiary
legislation made under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) Any person who desires to be appointed as an Authorised
Verifier must make an application for appointment to the
Commission in accordance with regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3) A person must not —

       (a) engage in any work of an Authorised Verifier specified in
            this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act;
            or

       (b) advertise or hold himself or herself out or conduct himself
            or herself in any way or by any means as a person who is
            authorised to act as an Authorised Verifier for any purpose
            under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this
            Act,

unless he or she has been appointed by the Commission under
subsection (1) as an Authorised Verifier.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) An Authorised Verifier must not, for the purposes of
section 7A(3)(a), use any working standard or testing instrument
which he or she knows or has reason to suspect is false or unjust.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
47  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

 (6) Without limiting section 30, for the purposes of ensuring
compliance by an Authorised Verifier with this Act or any subsidiary
legislation made under this Act, an inspector may —

    (a) require the Authorised Verifier to produce within the
         period that the inspector may specify —

    (i) any working standard or testing instrument used by
        that Authorised Verifier for the purposes of
        section 7A(3)(a), and may examine and test such
        standard and instrument; and

    (ii) any document in the possession or under the control
         of that Authorised Verifier, and may take copies of or
         extracts from any such document;

    (b) require the Authorised Verifier to furnish, within the period
         that the inspector may specify, any information or
         particulars that the inspector may require; and

       (c) enter and inspect any premises at which the Authorised
            Verifier carries out any inspection or testing of any
            weighing or measuring instrument or the affixing of any
            stamp or Accuracy Label on such instrument.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (7) Any Authorised Verifier who fails to comply with any
requirement under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

General powers of inspection and entry

 30.—(1) Subject to the production if so requested of his or her
authority in writing, an inspector or a police officer may at all
reasonable times —

       (a) inspect and test any weighing or measuring instrument
            which is, or which he or she has reasonable cause to
            believe to be, used for trade or in the possession of any
            person or upon any premises for such use;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              48

(b) inspect any goods to which any of the provisions of this
     Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act for
     the time being applies or which he or she has reasonable
     cause to believe to be such goods;

       (c) enter any premises at which he or she has reasonable cause
            to believe there to be any such instrument or goods, not
            being premises used only as a private dwelling house.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) A police officer and an inspector subject to the production if so
requested of the inspector’s authority in writing, may at any time
seize and detain —

(a) any article which he or she has reasonable cause to believe
     is liable to be forfeited under this Act; and

(b) any document displayed with any goods offered or
     exposed for sale which relates to the price or quantity of
     the goods and which the inspector has reason to believe
     may be required as evidence in proceedings under this Act.

 (3) An inspector entering any premises by virtue of this section may
take with him or her any other persons and any instrument that may
appear to him or her necessary.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) If any inspector or other person who enters any workplace by
virtue of this section discloses to any person any information obtained
by him or her in the workplace with regard to any manufacturing
process or trade secret, he or she shall, unless the disclosure was made
in the performance of his or her duty, be guilty of an offence.

Powers of arrest, etc.

 31.—(1) Any police officer or inspector may arrest without warrant
any person committing in his or her view or who he or she has
reasonable cause to believe has committed an offence under this Act
or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act.

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained at any
police station or at the office of the Controller to be dealt with in
accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
49  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

and must not be detained longer than is necessary for bringing him or
her before a Magistrate’s Court.

 (3) An offence under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made
under this Act is deemed to be an arrestable offence for the purposes
of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 and an inspector may exercise
any of the special powers relating to investigation of arrestable
offences conferred upon a police officer by that Code.

Power to require recall of weighing or measuring instrument
supplied

 31A.—(1) Where any person has supplied any weighing or
measuring instrument which is, or which the Controller has reason
to believe is, in contravention of this Act or any subsidiary legislation
made under this Act, the Controller may require the person to effect a
recall of any weighing or measuring instrument supplied by the
person.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with a requirement of the
Controller made under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Obstruction of inspectors

 32.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) wilfully obstructs an inspector acting in the execution of
            this Act or any subsidiary legislation made under this Act;

       (b) wilfully fails to comply with any requirement properly
            made of the person by an inspector under section 24 or 25;
            or

       (c) without reasonable cause fails to give any inspector acting
            as aforesaid any other assistance or information which the
            inspector may reasonably require of the person for the
            purposes of the performance by the inspector of his or her

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              50

          functions under this Act or any subsidiary legislation made
          under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) If any person, in giving to an inspector any such information as
is mentioned in subsection (1), gives any information which the
person knows to be false, the person shall be guilty of an offence.

Composition of offences

 33.—(1) The Controller may compound any offence under this Act
and any subsidiary legislation made under this Act by accepting from
the person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a
sum not exceeding $2,000.

 (2) Any sum of money received by way of composition as aforesaid
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Jurisdiction

 34. All offences under this Act and any subsidiary legislation made
under this Act may be prosecuted and all fines and forfeiture under
this Act and the subsidiary legislation may be recovered before a
Magistrates’ Court or District Court.

Penalties

 35.—(1) Any person guilty of an offence under section 11(1),
11(3), 14(1), 14(3), 19(1), 19(2) or 32(1), shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or to both.

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under any provision of this Act
other than those mentioned in subsection (1) shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (3) No contract for the sale or carriage for reward of any goods is
void by reason only of a contravention of any provision of this Act or
of any subsidiary legislation made under this Act, with respect to any
document which is, or is required by that provision to be, associated
with the goods.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
51  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

Offences by corporations

 36.—(1) Where an offence under, or under any instrument made
under, this Act or any enactment falling to be repealed by this Act
which has been committed by a body corporate is proved to have been
committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other
similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who was
purporting to act in any such capacity, he or she as well as the body
corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) In subsection (1), “director”, in relation to any body corporate
established under any written law, being a body corporate whose
affairs are managed by the members of the body corporate, means a
member of that body corporate.

Fees, etc., collected by Commission

 36A. All fees, charges and moneys collected under this Act, other
than composition sums, must be paid to the Commission.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Exemption

 36B. The Commission may, subject to the general or special
directions of the Minister, and by order in the Gazette, exempt —

       (a) any person or class of persons; and

       (b) any weighing or measuring instrument or class of weighing
            or measuring instruments,

from all or any of the provisions of this Act or any subsidiary
legislation made under this Act, subject to any terms and conditions
that the Commission may impose.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.     Weights and Measures Act 1975                           52

Regulations

 37. The Minister may make regulations generally for carrying out
the purposes and provisions of this Act and, in particular, may make
regulations —

(a) to provide for the form and manner of the application for
     appointment as an Authorised Verifier;

(b) to provide for the qualifications and other requirements for
     Authorised Verifiers;

          (c) to provide for the conditions and duration of appointment
              of Authorised Verifiers;

(d) to provide for the practice and conduct of Authorised
     Verifiers, including the carrying out of any work of
     Authorised Verifiers specified in this Act or any
     subsidiary legislation made under this Act, the use of
     any means of giving publicity to their practice and the use
     of titles and qualifications;

          (e) to prohibit absolutely or conditionally, or to regulate the
              manufacture, import or supply of any weighing or
              measuring instrument, whether in all cases or in any
              specified case or class of cases and subject to any
              exceptions that may be made by the regulations;

          (f) to require the registration of —

          (i) any weighing or measuring instrument; and

          (ii) any person involved in the manufacture, import or
               supply of any weighing or measuring instrument,

          (f) whether in all cases or in any specified case or class of
              cases and subject to any exceptions that may be made by
              the regulations;

(g) to provide for the determination of the weighed average
     quantity of goods for the purposes of section 19,
     including —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
53  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              2020 Ed.

    (i) the statistical basis or method by which packages are
        to be selected for counting, examining, measuring or
        weighing;

    (ii) the statistical basis or method by which the minimum
         number of packages to be selected is to be set;

    (iii) the circumstances (if any) in which the minimum
          number of packages to be selected may be varied;

    (iv) the maximum amount of error allowed in the weight,
         measure or number of goods in a single selected
         package; and

    (v) the maximum amount of error allowed in the weight,
         measure or number of goods in a group of selected
         packages examined at one time;

    (h) to prescribe fees and charges for any purpose of this Act or
         any subsidiary legislation made under this Act; and

    (i) to prescribe anything which is to be or may be prescribed
        under this Act.

                                                                                                    [30/2005]

Orders

 38. Any order made by the Minister under this Act must be made by
subsidiary legislation and be published in the Gazette and the order
may make different provisions for different circumstances.

Application to the Government

 39.—(1) The President may, by order in the Gazette, provide for the
application to the Government of any of the provisions of this Act or
of any subsidiary legislation made under this Act that may be
specified in the order, with the exceptions, adaptations and
modifications that may be so specified.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an order made under this Act
may make special provisions for the enforcement of any provisions
applied by the order and in particular as to the person liable to be
proceeded against for any offence under any such provision.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.  Weights and Measures Act 1975                              54

 (3) An order made under this section may be varied or revoked by
subsequent orders so made.

Saving

 40.—(1) The Minister may by regulations prescribe the
transactions in which, despite anything in this Act, it is lawful to
use any unit of the local customary weights and measures as may be
specified in the Third Schedule and having the values defined therein.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (2) The Minister may by order amend the Third Schedule by
removing any unit of measurement of length, of area, of volume, of
capacity, or of mass or weight, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (3) Where any weighing or measuring instrument was being used
for trade immediately before 1 January 2006 in compliance with this
Act in force immediately before that date —

       (a) nothing in section 7 prevents the continued use for trade of
            that weighing or measuring instrument even though it does
            not have an Accuracy Label affixed to it; and

       (b) subject to subsection (4), nothing in section 7A or 7B
            prevents the weighing or measuring instrument from being
            affixed with a stamp or Accuracy Label even though no
            letter of pattern approval has been issued in respect of that
            weighing or measuring instrument.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

 (4) Subsection (3)(b) does not apply to any weighing or measuring
instrument specified by the Commission in a notification published in
the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [30/2005]

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (5) Any approval, appointment, order, notification or decision
granted or made or anything done by the Board under this Act before
the appointed date, which was valid immediately before that date,
remains valid and continues on and after that date as if it were
granted, made or done by the Commission, until such time the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
55          Weights and Measures Act 1975                      2020 Ed.

Commission invalidates, revokes, cancels or otherwise ceases the
approval, appointment, order, notification or decision.

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (6) Any application made before the appointed date to the Board
under section 29A(2) that is pending immediately before that date is
deemed on and after that date to be an application made to the
Commission under section 29A(2).

                                                                               [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

 (7) In this section —

    “appointed date” means the date of commencement of section 11
       of the Competition (Amendment) Act 2025;

    “Board” means the Enterprise Singapore Board established by
       section 3 of the Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018.

            [Act 13 of 2025 wef 01/07/2025]

Transitional provision

 41. Despite the repeal of the Weights and Measures Act (Cap. 263,
1970 Revised Edition), any weighing or measuring equipment tested,
passed and stamped under that Act is deemed to have been tested,
passed and stamped under a corresponding provision of this Act.

                            FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                             Sections 3(2) and 6

    DEFINITIONS OF UNITS OF MEASUREMENT (METRIC UNITS)
                                          PART 1

                                Measurement of Length

Kilometre   = 1000 metres
Metre       = The metre as defined under the Convention of the Metre

Decimetre       1875
Centimetre  = 1/10 metre
Millimetre  = 1/100 metre
            = 1/1000 metre.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.          Weights and Measures Act 1975                      56

                  FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
                                  PART 2

                         Measurement of Area

Hectare           = 100 ares

Dekare            = 10 ares

Are               = 100 square metres

Square metre      = A superficial area equal to that of a square each side of
                      which measures one metre

Square decimeter = 1/100 square metre

Square centimeter = 1/100 square decimeter

Square millimeter = 1/100 square centimetre.

Cubic metre                         PART 3
                         Measurement of Volume
Cubic decimeter
Cubic centimeter  = A volume equal to that of a cube each edge of which
                      measures one metre

                  = 1/1000 cubic metre
                  = 1/1000 cubic decimeter

Hectolitre                        PART 4
Litre                  Measurement of Capacity
Decilitre         = 100 litres
Centilitre        = 1/1000 cubic metre
Millilitre        = 1/10 litre
                  = 1/100 litre
                  = 1/1000 litre.

Tonne                                PART 5
Quintal              Measurement of Mass or Weight
                  = 1000 kilograms
                  = 100 kilograms

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
57                 Weights and Measures Act 1975                        2020 Ed.

Kilogram           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Hectogram          = The kilogram as defined under the Convention of the
Gram                   Metre 1875
Carat (metric)
Milligram          = 1/10 kilogram
                   = 1/1000 kilogram
                   = 1/5 gram
                   = 1/1000 gram.

                                                       [S 895/2022 wef 21/11/2022]
                                                                              [30/2005]

                   SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                        Section 4

MEASURES AND WEIGHTS (METRIC SYSTEM)
                           PART 1

                       Linear Measure

Measures of —      .
  20 metres
  10 metres        100 millimetres
  2 metres         50 millimetres
  1 metre          20 millimetres
  500 millimetres  10 millimetres
  200 millimetres  1 decimetre
                   1 centimetre.

                                           PART 2      .
                                   Measures of Volume
Measures of —                                          100 millilitres
  any multiple of one cubic decimetre in cubic form    50 millilitres
  10 litres                                            20 millilitres
  5 litres                                             10 millilitres
  2 litres                                             5 millilitres
  1 litre

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
2020 Ed.              Weights and Measures Act 1975                  58

                 SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

500 millilitres                                      2 millilitres
200 millilitres                                      1 millilitre.

1. Weights of —       PART 3
 1000 kilograms       Weights
 500 kilograms
 250 kilograms                .
 100 kilograms
 50 kilograms                4 grams
 20 kilograms                3 grams
 15 kilograms                2 grams
 10 kilograms                1 gram
 5 kilograms                 500 milligrams
 2 kilograms                 400 milligrams
 1 kilogram                  300 milligrams
 15 grams                    200 milligrams
                             150 milligrams
                             0.5 milligrams
                             0.2 milligrams
                             0.1 milligrams.

2. Weights of —       1 carat (metric)
 500 carats (metric)  0.5 carat (metric)
 200 carats (metric)  0.25 carat (metric)
 100 carats (metric)  0.2 carat (metric)
 50 carats (metric)   0.1 carat (metric)
 20 carats (metric)   0.05 carat (metric)
 10 carats (metric)   0.02 carat (metric)
 5 carats (metric)    0.01 carat (metric).
 2 carats (metric)

                                                                     [30/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
59              Weights and Measures Act 1975                       2020 Ed.
1 Hoon
                     THIRD SCHEDULE                                 Section 40

                    CUSTOMARY WEIGHTS

         = 1/10 Chee = ...             = 0.377994 grams

1 Chee   = 1/10 Tahil = ...            = 3.77994 grams

1 Tahil  = ...      = 1 1/3 ozs        = 37.7994 grams

16 Tahils = 1 Kati  = 1 1/3 lbs        = 0.6048 kilogram.

                                                              [30/2005]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT 1975

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
      THE STANDARD MEASURES ORDINANCE, 1883

                     (ORDINANCE XI OF 1883)

1. Ordinance XI of 1883 — The Standard Measures Ordinance, 1883

Bill                  : G.N. No. 266/1883

First Reading         : 4 June 1883

Second Reading        : 20 August 1883

Notice of Amendments  : 26 October 1883

Third Reading         : 26 October 1883

Commencement          : 26 October 1883

                             PART 2
           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT
      (CHAPTER 263, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

2. Ordinance VII of 1886 — The Weights and Measures Ordinance 1886

Bill                  : G.N. No. 281/1886

First Reading         : 31 May 1886

Second Reading        : 28 June 1886

Notice of Amendments  : 15 July 1886

Third Reading         : 15 July 1886

Commencement          : 1 July 1886

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
                                      ii

Note: This Ordinance repealed sections 17 and 18 of the Indian Act No. 48
        of 1860 and the Standard Measures Ordinance 1883 (Ordinance XI of
        1883).

3. Ordinance XXIV of 1910 — The Weights and Measures Ordinance 1886
                                        Amendment Ordinance 1910

Bill                  : G.N. No. 942/1910

First Reading         : 19 August 1910

Second Reading        : 2 September 1910

Third Reading         : 16 September 1910

Commencement          : 27 September 1910

4. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 37 (Weights and Measures)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

5. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 37 (Weights and Measures)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

6. 1936 Revised Edition — Weights and Measures Ordinance (Chapter 204)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

7. Ordinance 24 of 1937 — Weights and Measures (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1937

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1597/1937

First Reading         : 14 June 1937

Second Reading        : 30 August 1937

Notice of Amendments  : 30 August 1937

Third Reading         : 30 August 1937

Commencement          : 10 September 1937

8. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 66 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                  : 32/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
               iii

Commencement   : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                     item 66 of the Schedule)

9. 1955 Revised Edition — Weights and Measures Ordinance (Chapter 230)

Operation      : 1 July 1956

10. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement   : 3 June 1959

11. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement   : 20 November 1959

12. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement   : 20 November 1959

13. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement   : 20 November 1959

14. Ordinance 71 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 4 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill           : 30/1959

First Reading  : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 1959

Commencement   : 20 November 1959 (section 4 read
                     with the First Schedule)

15. Act 53 of 1970 — Weights and Measures (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill           : 41/1970

First Reading  : 4 November 1970

Second and Third Readings : 30 December 1970

Commencement   : 15 February 1971

16. 1970 Revised Edition — Weights and Measures Act (Chapter 263)

Operation      : 31 July 1971

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
               iv

                                PART 3
           WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT 1975

                   (2020 REVISED EDITION)

17. Act 51 of 1975 — Weights and Measures Act, 1975

Bill           : 57/1975

First Reading  : 11 November 1975

Second and Third Readings : 20 November 1975

Commencement   : 1 January 1976

18. Act 1 of 1980 — Weights and Measures (Amendment) Act, 1980

Bill           : 38/1979

First Reading  : 11 December 1979

Second and Third Readings : 26 February 1980

Commencement   : 5 April 1980

19. 1985 Revised Edition — Weights and Measures Act (Chapter 349)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

20. G.N. No. S 22/1989 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
                                   Order 1989

Operation      : 30 March 1987

21. Act 30 of 2005 — Weights and Measures (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill           : 20/2005

First Reading  : 18 July 2005

Second and Third Readings : 15 August 2005

Commencement   : 1 January 2006

22. Act 54 of 2007 — Agency for Science, Technology and Research
                             (Amendment) Act 2007

     (Amendments made by section 6(3) of the above Act)

Bill           : 45/2007

First Reading  : 22 October 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 November 2007

Commencement   : 1 January 2008 (section 6(3))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
                      v

23. Act 10 of 2018 — Enterprise Singapore Board Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 76 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 3/2018

First Reading         : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 76)

24. 2020 Revised Edition — Weights and Measures Act 1975

Operation             : 31 December 2021

25. G.N. No. S 895/2022 — Weights and Measures Act 1975 (Amendment of
                                   First Schedule) Order 2022

Date of commencement  : 21 November 2022

26. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Bill                  : 24/2022

First Reading         : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement          : 1 June 2024 (Section 12(6))

27. Act 13 of 2025 — Competition (Amendment) Act 2025
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 5/2025

First Reading         : 5 March 2025

Second and Third Readings : 8 April 2025

Commencement          : 1 July 2025

28. Act 7 of 2025 — Food Safety and Security Act 2025

Bill                  : 49/2024

First Reading         : 12 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 8 January 2025

Commencement          : 28 November 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
.                                 vi
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
                  COMPARATIVE TABLE
        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES ACT 1975

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    1985 Ed.
                  3—(3) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2005]
—                 4—(4) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2005]
—
—                    (5) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2005]
4—(4)                (6)
                     (7)
   (5)            6—(3) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2005]
—                    (4)
6—(3)                (5)
                     (6)
   (4)               (7)
   (5)            9—(5) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2005]
   (6)            19—(7) [Deleted by Act 30 of 2005]
—                    (8)
—                    (9)
19—(7)
   (8)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 28/11/2025
