THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
                     AUTHORITY ACT 1999

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                         2020 Ed.

Building and Construction
    Authority Act 1999

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

               ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                     CONSTITUTION OF AUTHORITY

3. Establishment and incorporation of Authority
4. Common seal
5. Membership of Authority
6. Term of office of members
7. Meetings and proceedings of Authority

                                        PART 3

               FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

 8. Functions of Authority
 9. Powers of Authority
10. Committees
11. Delegation of powers

                                        PART 4
                     PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

12. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
13. Protection from personal liability

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                           2

          PART 5

          FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Section   Financial year
          Minister’s approval of estimates
   14.    Grants-in-aid
   15.    Loans
   16.    Issue of shares, etc.
   17.    Bank accounts and application of moneys
   18.
   19.

                                        PART 6

                           TRANSFER OF PROPERTY,
                       LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES

20. Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities
21. Transfer of employees
22. Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved
23. No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office
24. Existing contracts
25. Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings
26. Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

                                        PART 7

        SUPPLY OF ESSENTIAL CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS

                                Division 1 — General

27. Interpretation of this Part
28. Licence required for importing essential construction materials
29. Import permit required for every consignment
30. Isolation and storage of imported essential construction material

           Division 2 — Applications for licences, import permits
                                 and storage permits

31. Application for licence
32. Who may be licensed
33. Conditions of licence
34. Application for import permit
35. Application for storage permit

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         Building and Construction

3        Authority Act 1999                                            2020 Ed.

         Division 3 — Isolation and evaluation of
         imported essential construction materials

Section  Isolation of imported essential construction material upon entry
         Evaluation of essential construction material
   36.   Failed construction materials
   37.   Authorised analysts and evidence
   38.
   39.

         Division 4 — Enforcement and monitoring powers

   40. Revocation of licences, etc.
   41. Cancellation of import permits and storage permits
   42. Appeal to Minister
   43. Monitoring and enforcement powers
   44. Forfeiture

         Division 5 — Miscellaneous

   45. Register of licensees
   46. Exemption
   47. Power to make regulations under this Part

                                           PART 8

                                   MISCELLANEOUS

   48. Authority’s symbol
   49. Penalty for obtaining grants, loans or financial assistance by

            false or misleading statements
   50. Obstructing officers in execution of their duties, etc.
   51. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   52. Composition of offences
   53. Jurisdiction of court
   54. Service of documents, etc.
   55. Regulations
   56. Saving and transitional provisions

An Act to establish the Building and Construction Authority, to
  provide for its functions and powers, and for matters connected
  therewith.

                                                                 [1 April 1999]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Building and Construction

2020 Ed.     Authority Act 1999                                    4

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Building and Construction Authority Act 1999.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Authority” means the Building and Construction Authority
         established under section 3;

      “Board” means the Construction Industry Development Board
         established under section 3 of the repealed Construction
         Industry Development Board Act (Cap. 51, 1985 Revised
         Edition);

      “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority and
         includes any acting Chairperson of the Authority;

      “Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Authority,
         and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

      “construction industry” means the industry concerning the
         carrying out of construction works and services;

      “construction works and services” includes all aspects of
         architectural, engineering, development and construction
         works and services including such other related production,
         design and consultancy works and services which result in
         the construction, maintenance, retrofitting, repair or removal
         of all types of buildings and infrastructure;

      “Deputy Chairperson” means the Deputy Chairperson of the
         Authority;

      “HDB” means the Housing and Development Board established
         under section 3 of the Housing and Development Act 1959;

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

      “member” means a member of the Authority;

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Building and Construction

5  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

   “private residential estate” means any area in Singapore that
      comprises exclusively or primarily residential property, and
      excludes —

   (a) any housing estate of the HDB; or

           (b) common property or open space vested in or under
                the care, control or management of the HDB or a
                Town Council;

                                                                          [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   “public agency” means —

   (a) any ministry or department of the Government or
        Organ of State; or

           (b) any body established or constituted by or under a
                public Act to perform or discharge a public function,
                excluding a Town Council;

                                                                          [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   “residential property” means any house, building or other
      premises or any part thereof which is permitted to be used
      pursuant to the Planning Act 1998 or any other written law as
      a dwelling house or which is lawfully so used, and excludes
      any hotel, serviced apartment, boarding house, lodging
      house, hostel or dormitory;

                                                                          [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   “Town Council” means a Town Council established under
      section 4 of the Town Councils Act 1988.

                                                    [5/2018]
                       [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

                                    PART 2

            ESTABLISHMENT, INCORPORATION AND
                  CONSTITUTION OF AUTHORITY

Establishment and incorporation of Authority

 3. A body called the Building and Construction Authority is
established, which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and
a common seal and is, by that name, capable of —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       6

(a) suing and being sued;

(b) acquiring, owning, holding and developing or disposing of
     property, both movable and immovable; and

          (c) doing and suffering all such other acts or things as a body
              corporate may lawfully do and suffer.

Common seal

 4.—(1) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the
Authority must be sealed with the common seal of the Authority and
all instruments to which the common seal is affixed must be signed by
any 2 members generally or specially authorised by the Authority for
the purpose or by one member and the Chief Executive.

 (2) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially are to take
judicial notice of the common seal of the Authority affixed to any
document and presume that it was duly affixed.

Membership of Authority
 5.—(1) The Authority consists of —
       (a) a Chairperson;
       (b) a Deputy Chairperson; and
       (c) not less than 5 but not more than 12 other members,

all of whom must be appointed by the Minister.
 (2) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive to be a member

of the Authority.

Term of office of members

 6.—(1) A member of the Authority holds office for the term not
exceeding 3 years that the Minister specifies in the appointment, and
may be re‑appointed.

 (2) Any member of the Authority may at any time by written notice
to the Minister resign his or her office.

 (3) The Minister may, at any time, revoke the appointment of any
member without giving any reason.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Building and Construction

7                  Authority Act 1999                       2020 Ed.

 (4) If a member dies or resigns or has his or her appointment
revoked, the Minister may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the
remainder of the term for which the vacating member was appointed.

 (5) The Authority must pay to the Chairperson, the Deputy
Chairperson and other members of the Authority such salaries, fees
and allowances as the Minister may determine.

Meetings and proceedings of Authority

 7.—(1) The quorum at every meeting of the Authority is the higher
of the following:

   (a) one-third of the total number of members;

   (b) 3 members.

                                                            [25/2009]

 (2) The Chairperson or, in his or her absence, the Deputy
Chairperson presides at all meetings of the Authority and, in their
absence, the members present must elect one of their number to
preside.

 (3) Meetings of the Authority must be held at such times and places
as the Chairperson may determine.

 (4) All questions arising at any meeting must be decided by a
majority of votes of the members present and voting.

 (5) At any meeting of the Authority, the Chairperson or, in his or her
absence, the Deputy Chairperson has a deliberative vote and, in the
case of an equality of votes, he or she also has a casting vote.

 (6) The validity of any proceedings of the Authority is not affected
by any vacancy among its members or by any defect in the
appointment of any member.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector
(Governance) Act 2018, the Authority may regulate its own
proceedings.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.                Authority Act 1999                         8

                        PART 3

          FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF AUTHORITY

Functions of Authority

 8.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the functions and
duties of the Authority are —

(a) to promote the development, improvement and expansion
     of the construction industry including the use of advanced
     technology in the construction industry;

(b) to advise and make recommendations to the Government
     on matters affecting or connected with the construction
     industry and on the control of building works and the
     safety of buildings;

          (c) to raise standards and efficiency in the construction
              industry by encouraging the standardisation and
              improvement of construction processes, techniques,
              products and materials;

(d) to promote good procurement methods and practices in the
     construction industry and advise and assist the
     Government in the procurement of construction works
     and services;

          (e) to provide consultancy and advisory services related to the
              construction industry;

          (f) to promote the advancement of skills and expertise of
              persons in the construction industry;

(g) to raise the professionalism and capabilities of firms in the
     construction industry;

(h) to promote the adoption of internationally recognised
     quality management systems in the construction industry;

          (i) to facilitate the supply of essential construction materials
              and secure and manage land and facilities related to their
              import and production;

          (j) to promote and carry out research for the development and
              improvement of the construction industry and in respect of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Building and Construction

9  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

   the building control system, building codes and
   regulations, building maintenance and management,
   energy usage in buildings and other matters related to or
   incidental to the functions of the Authority;

   (k) to promote the efficient use of energy in buildings and to
       advise the Government on the measures and regulations to
       be implemented;

    (l) to provide a search service for searches on building records
        and plans;

                                                                         [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   (la) to act as an agent of the Government in the management,
        implementation and administration of programmes
        established and funded by the Government for the
        upgrading of public spaces, infrastructure and facilities
        in private residential estates to improve the quality of life
        of the residents of those estates, including carrying out site
        assessments, consultations with the residents and
        coordination work with other public agencies;

                                                                         [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   (lb) to act as an agent of the Government in the management,
        implementation and administration of programmes to
        facilitate the installation of fixtures that enhance mobility
        and safety in residential properties in private residential
        estates, including —

   (i) administering the provision of financial support to
       eligible persons under such programmes; and

          (ii) identifying suitable persons to supply and install
               such fixtures for eligible persons under such
               programmes;

                                                                        [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

   (lc) to act as an agent of the Government in the maintenance of
        structures (other than any coastal protection measures
        within the meaning given by section 2B(1) of the
        Sewerage, Drainage and Coastal Protection Act 1999)

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       10

     belonging to the Government and erected on any part of the
     foreshore that is State land, as directed by the Minister;

                                                                      [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

(ld) to provide administrative support services to —

          (i) the Professional Engineers Board in the performance
              of its functions under the Professional Engineers Act
              1991; and

       (ii) a Strata Titles Board in the performance of its
            functions under the Building (Strata Management)
            Act 2004 and the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967; and

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

(m) to carry out any other functions imposed upon the
     Authority by or under this Act or any other written law.

 (2) In addition to the functions and duties imposed by
subsection (1), the Authority may undertake such other functions
and duties as the Minister may in writing assign to the Authority and,
in so doing, the Authority is deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of
this Act and the provisions of this Act apply to the Authority in
respect of such functions and duties.

 (3) The Minister may give to the Authority any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                [9

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Powers of Authority

 9. The Authority has power to do anything for the purpose of
discharging its functions under this Act, or which is incidental or
conducive to the discharge of those functions and, in particular,
may —

       (a) prescribe standards for the construction industry in relation
            to design, processes, construction techniques, products and
            materials;

       (b) promote and assist in the export of construction works and
            services;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

11  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (c) own, lease, manage, let or sell lands, buildings and other
        property as the Authority may consider necessary for the
        discharge of its duties and functions;

    (d) collect, analyse, compile, publish and disseminate
         information of a statistical nature relating to the
         construction industry and on all matters relating to
         building control, maintenance and management of
         buildings or such other subject matters as may be
         necessary for the performance of the functions of the
         Authority;

    (e) prescribe training requirements for the construction
        industry, provide training, conduct tests and award
        diplomas and certificates of proficiency;

    (f) register construction tradesmen, construction foremen and
        construction supervisors of suitable qualifications and
        experience with a view to raising standards of performance
        in construction services in Singapore;

    (g) collaborate with other companies or institutions to organise
         seminars, workshops, conferences, courses or other
         training programmes and share profits;

    (h) provide technical advice or assistance, including training
         facilities, to personnel of related organisations in other
         countries;

    (i) provide financial assistance in the form of grants, loans or
        otherwise to persons, firms or companies in the
        construction industry and provide any guarantee on their
        behalf;

    (j) enter into a partnership or an arrangement for the sharing
        of profits;

    (k) charge fees or commissions for services rendered by the
        Authority;

    (l) carry out publicity in any form;

    (m) form or participate in the formation of a company to
         perform or carry out any of the functions of the Authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       12

(n) receive donations and contributions from any source and
     raise funds by all lawful means;

(o) provide training for officers or employees of the Authority
     and award scholarships or otherwise pay for such training;

(p) provide recreational facilities and promote recreational
     activities for, and activities conducive to, the welfare of
     officers or employees of the Authority and members of
     their families;

(q) grant loans to officers or employees of the Authority for
     any purpose specifically approved by the Authority as are
     likely to increase the efficiency of officers or employees;
     and

          (r) do anything incidental to any of its powers.
                                                                                 [10

Committees

 10.—(1) The Authority may appoint, alter and discharge
committees, consisting of one or more persons (whether members
of the Authority or not), and define and vary the terms of reference of
those committees.

 (2) Subject to this Act and any regulations made under this Act, the
Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018 and to the control of the
Authority, each committee appointed under this section may regulate
its procedure in such manner as it thinks fit.

                                                                               [11

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Delegation of powers

 11.—(1) The Authority may, in respect of a specified matter or class
of matters, by writing delegate any of its powers to a member, officer
or committee of the Authority.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) Every member, officer or committee purporting to act pursuant
to a delegation under this section is, in the absence of proof to the
contrary, presumed to be acting in accordance with the terms of the
delegation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

13  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

(3) A delegation under this section is revocable at will.       [12

                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 4

                 PROVISIONS RELATING TO STAFF

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 12.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Authority, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Authority may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, such other officers, employees, consultants and agents as
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                               [13

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 13. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against
any member, officer or employee of the Authority or other person
acting under the direction of the Authority for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done in the execution or purported
execution of this Act or any other written law.

                                                                               [14

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                Building and Construction

2020 Ed.        Authority Act 1999                                 14

                PART 5

                FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Financial year

 14. The financial year of the Authority begins on 1 April of each
year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                               [16

Minister’s approval of estimates

 15.—(1) A copy of all annual estimates of revenue and expenditure
and supplementary estimates must, upon their adoption by the
Authority, be sent without delay to the Minister.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Minister may approve or disallow any item or portion of
any item shown in the annual estimates or supplementary estimates.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Minister must return the annual estimates or supplementary
estimates as amended under subsection (2) to the Authority, and the
Authority is bound by the Minister’s decision.

                                                                               [17

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Grants-in-aid

 16. For the purpose of enabling the Authority to carry out its
functions under this Act, the Minister may make grants‑in‑aid to the
Authority of such sums of money, as the Minister may determine, out
of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

                                                                               [18

Loans

 17. The Authority may for the purposes of this Act raise loans from
the Government or, with the Minister’s consent, from any other
source.

                                                                               [19

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Building and Construction

15                     Authority Act 1999         2020 Ed.

Issue of shares, etc.

18. As a consequence of —

    (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
         Government in the Authority under this Act; or

    (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
         Government in the Authority in accordance with any
         written law,

the Authority must issue such shares or other securities to the
Minister for Finance as that Minister may from time to time direct.

                                                                             [19A

Bank accounts and application of moneys

 19.—(1) The Authority must open and maintain an account or
accounts with such bank or banks as the Authority thinks fit and every
such account must be operated by such person or persons authorised
to do so by the Authority.

 (2) The moneys of the Authority must be applied only in payment
or discharge of the expenses, obligations and liabilities of the
Authority and in making any payments that the Authority is
authorised or required to make.

 (3) The Authority may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                               [20

                                    PART 6
                       TRANSFER OF PROPERTY,
                   LIABILITIES AND EMPLOYEES
Transfer to Authority of property, assets and liabilities
 20.—(1) As from 1 April 1999, any movable and immovable
property vested in the Board, or in the Government that are
determined by the Minister for Finance and used or managed by
the Building Control Division of the Public Works Department and
all assets, interests, rights, privileges, liabilities and obligations of the

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       16

Board or of the Government relating to the Building Control Division
of the Public Works Department are transferred to and vest in the
Authority without further assurance, act or deed.

 (2) If any question arises as to whether any particular property, or
whether any particular asset, interest, right, privilege, liability or
obligation has been transferred to or vested in the Authority under
subsection (1), a certificate under the hand of the Minister for Finance
is conclusive evidence that the property, asset, interest, right,
privilege, liability or obligation was or was not so transferred or
vested.

 (3) Any immovable property to be transferred to and vested in the
Authority under subsection (1) is to be held by the Authority upon
such tenure and subject to such terms and conditions as the President
may determine.

                                                                               [25

Transfer of employees

 21.—(1) As from 1 April 1999, all persons employed immediately
before that date by the Board and in the Building Control Division of
the Public Works Department are transferred to the service of the
Authority on terms no less favourable than those enjoyed by them
immediately prior to their transfer.

 (2) Until such time as terms and conditions of service are drawn up
by the Authority, the scheme and terms and conditions of service in
the Board or the Government (as the case may be) continue to apply
to every person transferred to the service of the Authority under
subsection (1) as if he or she were still in the employment of the
Board or the Government.

                                                                               [26

Pension rights, etc., of Government employees to be preserved

 22.—(1) The terms and conditions to be drawn up by the Authority
must take into account the terms and conditions of service (including
salaries and accrued rights to leave) enjoyed by the persons
transferred to the service of the Authority under section 21 while
in the employment of the Board or the Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

17  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) Any term or condition relating to the length of service with the
Authority must recognise the length of service of the persons so
transferred while in the employment of the Board or the Government
to be service with the Authority.

 (3) Nothing in the terms and conditions to be drawn up by the
Authority is to adversely affect the conditions that would have been
applicable to persons transferred to the service of the Authority as
regards any pension, gratuity or allowance payable under the
Pensions Act 1956.

 (4) In every case, where a person has been transferred to the service
of the Authority under section 21, the Government is liable to pay to
the Authority such portion of any pension, gratuity or allowance
payable to such person on his or her retirement as the same bears to
the proportion which the aggregate amount of the person’s
pensionable emoluments during his or her service with the
Government bears to the aggregate amount of his or her
pensionable emoluments during his or her service under both the
Government and the Authority.

 (5) Where any person in the service of the Authority, whose case
does not fall within the scope of any pension or other schemes
established under this section, retires or dies in the service of the
Authority or is discharged from such service, the Authority may grant
to the person or to such other person or persons wholly or partly
dependent on the person, as the Authority thinks fit, such allowance
or gratuity as the Authority may determine.

                                                                               [27

No benefits in respect of abolition or reorganisation of office

 23. Despite the provisions of the Pensions Act 1956, no person who
is transferred to the service of the Authority under section 21 is
entitled to claim any benefit under that Act on the ground that he or
she has been retired from the service of the Government on account of
abolition or reorganisation of office in consequence of the
establishment and incorporation of the Authority.

                                                                               [28

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                    Building and Construction

2020 Ed.            Authority Act 1999                             18

Existing contracts

 24. All deeds, bonds, agreements, instruments and arrangements,
subsisting immediately before 1 April 1999 to which the Board or the
Government is a party and relating to the Building Control Division
of the Public Works Department or to any person transferred to the
service of the Authority under section 21 continue in force on and
after that date and are enforceable by or against the Authority as if the
Authority had been named therein or had been a party thereto instead
of the Board or the Government.

                                                                               [29

Continuation and completion of disciplinary proceedings

 25.—(1) Where on 1 April 1999 any disciplinary proceedings were
pending against any employee of the Board or the Government
transferred to the service of the Authority, the proceedings are to be
carried on and completed by the Authority; but where on 1 April 1999
any matter was in the course of being heard or investigated or had
been heard or investigated by a committee acting under due authority
but no order or decision had been rendered thereon, the committee is
to complete the hearing or investigation and make such order, ruling
or direction as it could have made under the authority vested in it
before that date.

 (2) Any order, ruling or direction made or given by a committee
pursuant to this section must be treated as an order, a ruling or a
direction of the Authority and have the same force or effect as if it had
been made or given by the Authority pursuant to the authority vested
in the Authority under this Act.

                                                                               [30

Misconduct or neglect of duty by employee before transfer

 26. The Authority may reprimand, reduce in rank, retire, dismiss or
punish in some other manner a person who had, while the person was
in the employment of the Board or the Government, been guilty of
any misconduct or neglect of duty which would have rendered the
person liable to be reprimanded, reduced in rank, retired, dismissed or
punished in some other manner if the person had continued to be in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

19  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

the employment of the Board or the Government (as the case may be)
and if this Act had not been enacted.

                                                                               [31

                                    PART 7

    SUPPLY OF ESSENTIAL CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS

                            Division 1 — General

Interpretation of this Part

 27. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “assisting officer” means a public officer or an employee of a
         public authority who is not a police officer, an officer of
         customs or an immigration officer, but who has been
         authorised by the Authority by name to assist an
         enforcement officer;

      “authorised analyst” means any person (who is not an employee
         of the Authority) or body of persons designated by the
         Authority under section 39 as authorised to carry out any
         inspection, examination and certification of any essential
         construction material under this Part and includes any
         enforcement officer;

      “building works” has the meaning given by the Building Control
         Act 1989;

      “consignment”, in relation to any essential construction
         material, means essential construction material of a
         particular kind that comprises a single lot imported by the
         same owner at the same time;

      “container” includes —

              (a) a case, box, bag, wrapper or material of any kind used
                   or intended to be used to cover, contain or package
                   something, whether or not designed for that purpose;
                   and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                     Building and Construction

2020 Ed.                Authority Act 1999                         20

          (b) a bulk container, or any means of bulk transport, used
               or intended to be used to cover, contain or package
               something;

“conveyance” means any vessel, vehicle or aircraft;

“enforcement officer” means —

          (a) the Chief Executive; or

          (b) an employee of the Authority appointed by the Chief
               Executive to be an enforcement officer for the
               purposes of this Part;

“essential construction material” means any of the following
   materials which are suitable for use in any building works,
   street works or railway works in Singapore and the domestic
   supply of which is short:

          (a) granite;

          (b) sand;

          (c) such rocks, minerals or other construction materials
              (whether manufactured or otherwise) as the Minister
              may, by notification in the Gazette, declare to be
              essential construction material;

“granite” means —

          (a) granite slabs or blocks extracted or won from
               naturally occurring mineral deposits and suitable (if
               crushed) for use as primary aggregate in any building
               works, street works or railway works in Singapore; or

          (b) granite aggregate, gravel, stones or overburden of
               such prescribed dimensions that are extracted or won
               from mineral sources, which have been subject to
               nothing more than crushing and sizing or other
               physical processing, and suitable for use, either on
               their own or with the addition of cement or other
               binder, in any building works, street works or railway
               works in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

21  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    “immigration officer” means any person appointed under
       section 3 of the Immigration Act 1959;

    “import” means to bring or cause to be brought into Singapore
       by land, water or air from any place which is outside
       Singapore, but does not include the bringing into Singapore
       of essential construction material which is to be taken out of
       Singapore on the same conveyance on which it was brought
       into Singapore without any landing or transhipment within
       Singapore;

    “import permit” means an import permit granted under
       section 34 to import a particular consignment of essential
       construction material;

    “isolation order” means an order issued or deemed to be issued
       under section 36 in respect of a consignment of essential
       construction material;

    “licence” means a licence granted under section 31 to carry on
       the business of importing essential construction material
       specified in the licence;

    “licensee” means a person who holds a valid licence;

    “occupier” means —

    (a) in relation to any premises or conveyance — the
         person in occupation of the premises or conveyance
         or having the charge, management or control of the
         premises or conveyance; and

    (b) in relation to any part of any premises, different parts
         of which are occupied by different persons — the
         person in occupation or having the charge,
         management or control of that part;

    “officer of customs” has the meaning given by the Customs
       Act 1960;

    “procure” means to acquire (by purchase or exchange) and to
       import essential construction materials;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       22

“railway works” means any works for the construction,
   reconstruction or realignment, or the permanent
   improvement of a railway;

“sand” means any sand or gravel that is suitable for use as fine
   aggregate in any building works, street works or railway
   works in Singapore, but excludes any unwashed or
   unprocessed marine-dredged sand or gravel;

“site”, in relation to any essential construction material, means
   any land or land underwater outside Singapore —

          (a) from which granite is extracted or won by blasting,
               sorting, breaking, loading and transporting, whether
               the processes are executed by manual labour or
               mechanical means;

          (b) on which persons are employed in any process for or
               incidental to the getting, dressing or preparation for
               the sale or otherwise of sand; or

          (c) from which any other essential construction material
              is extracted or won;

“storage permit” means any storage permit granted under
   section 35 in respect of such premises as may be specified
   in the storage permit;

“street works” has the meaning given by the Street Works
   Act 1995;

“supply”, in relation to any essential construction material,
   means to transfer possession of the essential construction
   material by any means whether or not for reward, and
   includes ––

          (a) to sell the essential construction material, whether by
               retail, wholesale or auction;

          (b) to transfer possession of the essential construction
               material by exchange, gift, lease or loan;

          (c) to supply the essential construction material in
              connection with a contract for the provision of any
              goods or the performance of any service; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

23  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (d) to offer, agree or attempt to supply the essential
         construction material in any of the ways described in
         paragraph (a), (b) or (c) or to cause or permit the
         essential construction material to be so supplied;

    “vehicle” means a conveyance that is designed to be propelled or
       drawn by any means (whether or not capable of being so
       propelled or drawn) and includes —

    (a) any aircraft, trailer, bicycle or other pedal-powered
         vehicle; and

    (b) any train, railway locomotive, wagon or carriage,

    and includes a part of any of the above;

    “vessel” means any kind of craft used in navigation by sea or
       water, however propelled or moved, and includes —

    (a) a barge, lighter or other floating vessel; or

    (b) a vessel engaged in a towing operation or in any
         dredging, surveying or underwater operations,

    and includes a part of any of the above.

                                                             [31A

Licence required for importing essential construction
materials

 28.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, a person must not
carry on any business of importing any essential construction
material unless the person is authorised to do so under a valid licence.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

 (3) This section does not prevent a corporation or limited liability
partnership that ceases to have in force a licence from carrying on any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       24

activity necessary to the winding up of the corporation or limited
liability partnership.

                                                                             [31B

Import permit required for every consignment

 29.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, a licensee must not
import any essential construction material unless —

       (a) the import of each consignment of essential construction
            material by the licensee is authorised by an import permit
            and is carried out in accordance with the conditions of the
            import permit; and

       (b) the whole consignment conforms to the description in the
            import permit.

 (2) Any licensee who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), it is a
defence for the accused to prove —

       (a) that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
            default of another person or to some other cause beyond
            the accused’s control; and

       (b) that the accused took all reasonable precautions and
            exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of
            such an offence by the accused or by any person under the
            accused’s control.

 (4) If in any case the defence provided by subsection (3) involves
the allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person, the accused is not, without the permission
of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless, within a period
ending 7 clear days before the hearing, the accused has served on the
prosecutor a written notice giving such information as was then in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

25  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

accused’s possession identifying or assisting in the identification of
that other person.

                                                                             [31C

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Isolation and storage of imported essential construction
material

 30.—(1) Any licensee who imports any consignment of essential
construction material (whether or not under an import permit) must
not —

       (a) use or permit to be used the essential construction material
            or any part thereof in any building works, street works or
            railway works in Singapore; or

       (b) supply or permit to be supplied to another person the
            essential construction material, knowing or having
            reasonable cause to believe that the essential
            construction material is to be used in any building
            works, street works or railway works in Singapore,

for so long as the consignment is subject to an isolation order.

 (2) Any licensee must not use any premises to store any
consignment of essential construction material that he or she
imports and is subject to an isolation order except —

       (a) in or on premises that are authorised for such use under a
            storage permit granted by the Authority;

       (b) in such quantities (if any) and in such manner and subject
            to such conditions as may be prescribed in relation to such
            essential construction material; and

       (c) in accordance with every condition of that storage permit
            granted.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a fine

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       26

not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                             [31D

       Division 2 — Applications for licences, import permits
                             and storage permits

Application for licence

 31.—(1) Every application for a licence or for a renewal of a
licence must be made to the Authority in the prescribed manner and
accompanied by the appropriate application fee prescribed.

 (2) An applicant for a licence or for a renewal of a licence must, at
the request of the Authority, provide any further information or
evidence that the Authority may require to decide the application.

 (3) Upon receiving an application for a licence or for a renewal of a
licence under subsection (1), the Authority must consider the
application and, subject to section 40(7)(c), may —

       (a) grant a licence or a renewal of a licence, with or without
            conditions; or

       (b) refuse to grant any such licence or renewal of such licence.

 (4) To avoid doubt, a licence does not authorise its holder —

       (a) to use in any building works, street works or railway works
            in Singapore; or

       (b) to supply to any other person,

any essential construction material imported by the holder.

 (5) Every licence is, unless earlier revoked, valid for such period as
may be specified in the licence (being not longer than 5 years) and,
upon its expiry, the licence may be renewed.

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

 (6) Any person who, in making an application for a licence —

       (a) makes any statement or provides any document which the
            person knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

       (b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
            provides information which is misleading,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

27  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                             [31E

Who may be licensed

 32.—(1) A person who applies for a licence is eligible to be granted
a licence if, and only if —

       (a) the person is not a company limited by guarantee or a
            corporation sole;

       (b) the Authority is satisfied that the person is duly authorised
            to carry on the business of an importer of essential
            construction materials; and

       (c) the person provides a procurement plan regarding the
            import of essential construction materials, stating —

               (i) the types of essential construction materials
                   proposed to be procured by that person;

              (ii) the respective sites from which the essential
                   construction materials are to be extracted or won;

             (iii) the methods or practices to be applied by that person
                   in procurement;

             (iv) the risks (including assessments of the risks) of any
                   disruption occurring to the import of the relevant
                   essential construction materials from the markets
                   from which the relevant essential construction
                   materials are to be procured; and

              (v) any plan of action (including preventive strategies)
                   for the purpose of ensuring, so far as is reasonably
                   practicable, that the person can still provide a secure
                   and reliable supply in Singapore of the relevant
                   essential construction materials of acceptable quality
                   or of otherwise reducing or mitigating the effect of
                   any disruption to the supply of the relevant essential
                   construction materials from any such market from

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       28

          which the relevant essential construction materials
          are to be procured.

 (2) In deciding whether to grant a licence, the Authority may make
inquiries and investigations that are reasonable and appropriate in the
circumstances so as to be satisfied as to —

(a) the general character of the management of the applicant;

(b) the financial condition of the applicant;

          (c) the experience and resources of the applicant in providing a
              secure and reliable supply in Singapore of essential
              construction materials of acceptable quality; and

(d) whether the public interest will be served by the granting of
     the licence.

 (3) The Authority may require an applicant for a licence to satisfy
the Authority that the applicant has sufficient material and financial
resources available to enable the applicant to meet the applicant’s
financial obligations as and when they become due, and may refuse to
grant a licence to an applicant who fails to so satisfy it.

                                                                             [31F

Conditions of licence

 33.—(1) The Authority may —

       (a) grant a licence subject to such conditions as the Authority
            thinks fit, including but not limited to the conditions
            necessary or related to ensuring a secure and reliable
            supply in Singapore of essential construction materials of
            acceptable quality; and

       (b) at any time modify any existing conditions of such a
            licence or impose additional conditions.

 (2) Before modifying the conditions of a licence under this section,
the Authority must give notice to the licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make the
            modification in the manner specified in the notice; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

29  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days from the date the
         notice is served on the licensee concerned) within which
         written representations with respect to the proposed
         modification may be made.

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Authority must —

    (a) consider the representation and may reject the
         representation or amend the proposed modification in
         accordance with the representation, or otherwise; and

    (b) in either event mentioned in paragraph (a), thereupon issue
         a written direction to the licensee concerned requiring that
         effect be given to the proposed modification specified in
         the notice or to such modification as subsequently
         amended by the Authority within a reasonable time.
                                                                         [31G

Application for import permit

 34.—(1) Every application for an import permit to import any
consignment of essential construction material must —

       (a) be made to the Authority in the prescribed manner;

       (b) be accompanied by the appropriate application fee
            prescribed; and

       (c) be accompanied by the following unless the Authority
            waives the requirement:

               (i) such maps, particulars and other information as to
                   the site from which the essential construction
                   material is or is to be extracted or won;

              (ii) a statutory declaration by or on behalf of the licensee
                   verifying any information contained in or relating to
                   the application;

             (iii) such samples of the essential construction material to
                   be imported and such other documents relating
                   thereto as may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       30

 (2) The licensee applying for an import permit to import a
consignment of essential construction material must, at the request
of the Authority —

(a) arrange, at the licensee’s own cost, for samples of the
     essential construction material to be evaluated for the
     purposes of this Part; and

(b) provide any further information or evidence that the
     Authority may require to decide the application.

 (3) The evaluation mentioned in subsection (2)(a) may be carried
out by —

(a) an authorised analyst in Singapore; or

(b) a body or an organisation outside Singapore that is
     recognised by the Authority.

 (4) Upon receiving an application for an import permit under
subsection (1), the Authority must consider the application and the
report of the evaluation mentioned in subsection (2)(a) relating to the
essential construction material to be imported, and may —

(a) grant an import permit, with or without conditions, in
     respect of that consignment; or

(b) refuse to grant any such import permit.

 (5) Despite subsection (4), the Authority must refuse to grant an
import permit to any licensee whose licence is suspended or who is
the subject of any proceedings under section 40.

 (6) Every import permit is, unless earlier cancelled, valid for such
period as may be specified in the import permit (being not longer than
14 days) and may be extended.

 (7) To avoid doubt, an import permit to import any consignment of
essential construction material does not authorise the holder of the
import permit —

(a) to use in any building works, street works or railway works
     in Singapore; or

(b) to supply to another person,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

31  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

the essential construction material imported under that import permit,
except in accordance with this Part.

 (8) Any person who, in making an application for an import
permit —

    (a) makes any statement or provides any document which the
         person knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

    (b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
         provides information which is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                             [31H

Application for storage permit

 35.—(1) Every application by a licensee for a storage permit in
respect of any premises for storing essential construction material
that is subject to an isolation order must be made to the Authority in
the prescribed manner.

 (2) An applicant for a storage permit must, at the request of the
Authority, provide any further information or evidence that the
Authority may require to decide the application.

 (3) Upon receiving an application for a storage permit in respect of
any premises under subsection (1), the Authority must consider the
application and may —

       (a) grant a storage permit, with or without conditions; or

       (b) refuse to grant any such storage permit.

 (4) Before granting a licensee any storage permit in respect of any
premises, the Authority may —

       (a) inspect the premises, or cause such premises to be
            inspected by an enforcement officer with a view to its
            suitability to be authorised for use to store essential
            construction material that is subject to an isolation order;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       32

(b) require the licensee to make, at the licensee’s own expense,
     such alterations or improvements to the premises, or to
     provide, fix or install such facilities in the premises, as the
     Authority may specify; and

          (c) require the licensee to furnish a cash security deposit or a
              bank guarantee not exceeding the prescribed amount to
              secure the performance or due observance by the licensee
              of any condition of the storage permit.

 (5) Every storage permit is, unless earlier cancelled, valid for such
period as may be specified in the storage permit (being not longer
than 3 months) except that such period may be extended by the
Authority before the expiry of the storage permit in any particular
case.

 (6) Any person who, in making an application for any storage
permit —

(a) makes any statement or provides any document which the
     person knows to be false or does not believe to be true; or

(b) by the intentional suppression of any material fact,
     provides information which is misleading,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                              [31I

                Division 3 — Isolation and evaluation of
                imported essential construction materials

Isolation of imported essential construction material upon
entry

 36.—(1) The Authority may issue an isolation order in respect of
any imported consignment of essential construction material upon its
entry into Singapore.

 (2) Except as provided in subsection (3), every consignment of
essential construction material imported (whether or not under an
import permit) is, upon its entry into Singapore, deemed subject to an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

33  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

isolation order until the Authority lifts the isolation order in
accordance with section 38.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), the Authority or an enforcement officer
may, before the entry into Singapore of a consignment of essential
construction material, by written notice to the licensee importing the
consignment waive the application of subsection (2) in respect of that
consignment.

 (4) Upon the entry into Singapore of the consignment of essential
construction material that is subject to an isolation order, the licensee
importing that consignment must, before doing any of the following:

    (a) use or permit to be used the essential construction material
         or any part thereof in any building works, street works or
         railway works in Singapore;

    (b) supply or permit to be supplied to another person the
         essential construction material, knowing or having
         reasonable cause to believe that the essential
         construction material is to be used in any building
         works, street works or railway works in Singapore,

isolate the consignment of the essential construction material at
premises in respect of which a storage permit is granted, and arrange
for a sample to be taken as soon as practicable from that consignment
by any person acting by or under the authority of the Authority and
for the sample to be evaluated by an authorised analyst for the
purposes of this Part.

 (5) Where a licensee who has imported any essential construction
material fails to comply with subsection (4), the licensee shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (6) An enforcement officer or assisting officer or any other person
acting by or under the authority of the Authority may at any time take,
without payment, sufficient samples of any essential construction
material from a consignment thereof imported by a licensee (whether
in any premises or in any conveyance that is being used to transport
the consignment) for the purpose of evaluation by an authorised

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       34

analyst for the purposes of this Part, regardless of whether that
consignment is subject to an isolation order.

 (7) All samples of any material taken in accordance with
subsection (4) or (6) must be taken and dealt with as prescribed.

 (8) The costs of and incidental to the evaluation of any essential
construction material required by this section must be borne by the
Authority.

                                                                              [31J

Evaluation of essential construction material

 37.—(1) The evaluation of any essential construction material for
the purposes of this Part must include such analysis, test or
examination of the essential construction material as may be
prescribed to determine the following matters:

       (a) the acid soluble sulphate content, the chloride content and
            the alkali-silica reactivity of the essential construction
            material;

       (b) whether the essential construction material is otherwise
            unsuitable, given its composition, for producing concrete
            for use in building works, street works or railway works in
            Singapore;

       (c) whether the essential construction material complies with
            such other requirements as may have been prescribed in
            relation thereto.

 (2) An evaluation of any essential construction material for the
purposes of this Part may be carried out only by an authorised analyst.

 (3) An authorised analyst must, on completing an evaluation of any
essential construction material for the purposes of this Part, issue to
the Authority a certificate stating the authorised analyst’s findings,
and submit a copy of that certificate to the Authority within the
prescribed time.

 (4) Upon receiving any certificate of an authorised analyst under
subsection (3) relating to any consignment of essential construction
material imported by a licensee, the Authority must without delay
consider the findings of the authorised analyst to determine whether

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

35  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

the essential construction material is of acceptable quality for use in
any building works, street works or railway works in Singapore.

 (5) Any quantity of any essential construction material found in any
premises or in or on any conveyance at the time when a sample
thereof is taken pursuant to the provisions of this Part is, until the
contrary is proved, presumed to possess the same properties as the
sample.

                                                                             [31K

Failed construction materials

 38.—(1) This section applies to any essential construction material
the quality of which the Authority determines is not acceptable for
use in any building works, street works or railway works in Singapore
(called hereafter failed construction material).

 (2) Where the Authority, after considering the findings of an
authorised analyst in relation to any consignment of essential
construction material imported by a licensee, is satisfied that the
essential construction material is of acceptable quality for use in any
building works, street works or railway works in Singapore, the
Authority must by written notice to the licensee concerned
immediately lift the isolation order (if any) to which the
consignment of essential construction material is subject.

 (3) Where the Authority, after considering the findings of an
authorised analyst, is of the view that a consignment of essential
construction material imported by a licensee is failed construction
material, the Authority may by written notice —

       (a) refuse to lift any isolation order in respect of the
            consignment; and

       (b) require the licensee to comply with subsection (4) or (5), as
            the case may be.

 (4) Where the failed construction material is a sample taken for
evaluation under section 36(4), the licensee to whom a notice in
subsection (3)(b) is given must —

       (a) at the licensee’s own expense and within the prescribed
            time, remove from Singapore any remaining failed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       36

          construction material in the licensee’s possession, and any
          other essential construction material (whether or not from
          the same consignment) extracted or won from the same site
          as that from which the failed construction material was
          extracted or won, or destroy or otherwise dispose of it in
          the prescribed manner; and

(b) immediately cease to further import, supply or use in any
     building works, street works or railway works in Singapore
     the essential construction material extracted or won from
     the same site as that from which the failed construction
     material was extracted or won, except under such
     circumstances, in such manner and within such time as
     the Authority may approve.

 (5) Where the failed construction material is a sample taken for
evaluation under section 36(6), the licensee to whom a notice in
subsection (3)(b) is given must, in addition to complying with the
requirements of subsection (4)(a) and (b), at the licensee’s own
expense and within the prescribed time, notify in the prescribed
manner —

(a) every person to whom the licensee has supplied essential
     construction material between the day the consignment of
     failed construction material enters into Singapore and the
     seventh day after the Authority receives the authorised
     analyst’s certificate relating to that consignment (both days
     inclusive); and

(b) the Authority of the identity and business address of every
     such person in paragraph (a) so notified.

 (6) Where a licensee to whom subsection (4) or (5) applies fails to
remove the failed construction material and other essential
construction material from Singapore or destroy or otherwise
dispose of it in accordance with the manner prescribed —

(a) an enforcement officer or assisting officer may take such
     steps as he or she thinks fit to secure the removal,
     destruction or disposal of the failed construction material
     and other essential construction material; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

37  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) the Authority may recover from that licensee (as a debt due
         to the Authority) any costs and expenses reasonably
         incurred by the enforcement officer or assisting officer in
         doing so.

 (7) Subsection (4)(b) does not prejudice the enforcement by any
person of any right or claim against a licensee on whom a direction
under that subsection is served or by such a licensee of any right or
claim against any person.

 (8) The licensee concerned must bear the costs of and incidental to
any evaluation of any essential construction material required in
connection with the licensee seeking the approval of the Authority
under subsection (4)(b).

                                                                             [31L

Authorised analysts and evidence

 39.—(1) The Authority shall, by regulations, establish a scheme
under which persons (who are not employees of the Authority) or
bodies of persons may be designated as authorised analysts to carry
out any evaluation of any essential construction material for the
purposes of this Part, making provision for or with respect to the
following:

       (a) the qualifications, skills, knowledge and experience
            required for such designation under this Part;

       (b) a code of conduct for authorised analysts; and

       (c) the grounds and circumstances for and under which such
            designation may be refused, suspended or revoked.

 (2) The Authority may, in accordance with the scheme established
under subsection (1), designate any person (who is not an employee
of the Authority) or body of persons in Singapore as authorised to
carry out any evaluation of any essential construction material for the
purposes of this Part.

 (3) A person must not exercise the functions of an authorised
analyst under this Part or hold himself or herself out as one unless the
person is designated by the Authority in accordance with the scheme
established under subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       38

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), in any proceedings for an offence
under this Part, a certificate of an authorised analyst stating, in respect
of any sample from a consignment of essential construction material,
all or any of the following matters:

(a) that the authorised analyst signing the certificate is
     designated by the Authority in accordance with the
     scheme established under subsection (1);

(b) when and from whom the sample was received;

          (c) when the sample was analysed, tested or examined;

(d) a description of the method of analysis, test or
     examination;

          (e) the results of the authorised analyst’s analysis, test or
              examination,

is admissible as prima facie evidence of the matters stated in the
certificate and of the correctness of the results of the analysis, test or
examination.

 (6) A certificate mentioned in subsection (5) shall not be received in
evidence under that subsection unless the person charged has been
given —

(a) a copy of the certificate; and

(b) notice of the intention of the prosecution to produce the
     certificate as evidence in the proceedings,

at least 10 clear days before the proceedings start.

 (7) Where an authorised analyst’s certificate is admitted in evidence
under subsection (5), the person charged may require the authorised
analyst to be called as a witness for the prosecution and the authorised
analyst may be cross-examined as if the authorised analyst had given
evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.

                                                                            [31M

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

39  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    Division 4 — Enforcement and monitoring powers

Revocation of licences, etc.

 40.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), the Authority may, by order,
revoke any licence if it is satisfied that —

    (a) the licensee has failed to comply with any condition
         imposed by the Authority under section 33;

    (b) the licence had been obtained by fraud or
         misrepresentation;

    (c) the licensee has been declared bankrupt or has gone into
        compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
        purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

    (d) the licensee has been convicted of an offence under this
         Part;

    (e) the licensee has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
        comply with section 38(4) or (5), as the case may be;

    (f) the public interest or national security of Singapore so
        requires; or

    (g) the licensee has refused or failed to comply with an order
         of the Authority made under subsection (2)(b) or (d).

 (2) The Authority may, in any case in which it considers that no
cause of sufficient gravity for revoking any licence exists, by order do
all or any of the following:

    (a) suspend the licence for a period not exceeding 6 months;

    (b) impose on the licensee concerned a financial penalty not
         exceeding $500,000;

    (c) censure the licensee concerned;

    (d) impose any other direction or restriction that the Authority
         considers appropriate on the licensee’s business as an
         importer of essential construction materials.

 (3) The Authority must not exercise its powers under subsection (1)
or (2) unless an opportunity of being heard by a representative in
writing or by counsel had been given to the licensee against which the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       40

Authority intends to exercise its powers, being a period of at least 7
and not more than 14 days.

 (4) Where the Authority has made an order under subsection (1)
or (2) in respect of any licensee, the Authority must serve on the
licensee concerned a notice of its order made under this section.

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), any order made by the Authority
under subsection (1) or (2) takes effect on the expiry of 7 days after
the Authority has served the order on the licensee concerned.

 (6) Where the licensee concerned has appealed under section 42 to
the Minister against an order made by the Authority under
subsection (2)(b), the order does not take effect unless the order is
confirmed by the Minister or the appeal is for any reason dismissed
by the Minister or withdrawn.

(7) Where an order of revocation takes effect —

(a) the Authority must cause notice of the revocation to be
     published in the Gazette;

(b) the importer concerned must, as from the date of the notice,
     cease to import any essential construction material except
     as may be approved by the Authority; and

          (c) the importer concerned is debarred from applying for or
              holding a licence for a period of 12 months after that
              revocation.

 (8) Subsection (7)(b) does not prejudice the enforcement by any
person of any right or claim against the corporation or limited liability
partnership formerly licensed, or by the corporation or limited
liability partnership formerly licensed, of any right or claim against
any person.

 (9) In any proceedings under this section in relation to the
conviction of a licensee for a criminal offence, the Authority is to
accept the licensee’s conviction as final and conclusive.

                                                                             [31N

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

41  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

Cancellation of import permits and storage permits

 41.—(1) The Authority may, after calling upon the licensee
concerned to show cause within such reasonable time as the
Authority may allow as to why the import permit granted in
respect of any consignment of essential construction material to be
imported should not be cancelled, by order cancel the import permit if
the Authority has reasonable grounds to believe that —

    (a) the import permit had been obtained by fraud or
         misrepresentation;

    (b) the essential construction material is extracted or won from
         the same site from which any failed construction material
         is extracted or won;

    (c) the licensee’s licence is suspended or the licensee is the
        subject of any proceedings under section 40;

    (d) the essential construction material no longer complies with
         a prescribed requirement mentioned in section 37(1)(c); or

    (e) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), every import permit granted to
any person is deemed cancelled upon the revocation of any licence
granted to the same person.

 (3) The Authority may, after calling upon the licensee concerned to
show cause within such reasonable time as the Authority may allow
as to why the storage permit granted in respect of any premises should
not be cancelled, by order cancel the storage permit if the Authority
has reasonable grounds to believe that —

    (a) the storage permit had been obtained by fraud or
         misrepresentation;

    (b) any condition of the storage permit has been breached; or

    (c) any essential construction material subject to an isolation
        order is not stored at those premises in accordance with this
        Part or any regulations made under this Act.
                                                                         [31O

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                    Building and Construction

2020 Ed.            Authority Act 1999                             42

Appeal to Minister

 42.—(1) Any person whose application for a licence, an import
permit or a storage permit, or for the renewal of a licence, has been
refused by the Authority may, within 14 days after being notified of
such refusal, appeal in the prescribed manner to the Minister, whose
decision is final.

 (2) Where a licence, an import permit or a storage permit granted by
the Authority is subject to conditions, the licensee or holder of the
permit concerned may, within 14 days after being notified of such
conditions, appeal in the prescribed manner to the Minister, whose
decision is final.

(3) If the Authority has made any order —

(a) under section 40 in respect of a licence or licensee; or

(b) cancelling any import permit or storage permit under
     section 41(1) or (3),

the person against whom such an order is made may, within 14 days
after being served with the notice of the order, appeal to the Minister
against the order, and the decision of the Minister is final.

 (4) In any appeal under this section in relation to the conviction of a
licensee for a criminal offence, the Minister on appeal from any order
of the Authority is to accept the licensee’s conviction as final and
conclusive.

                                                                             [31P

Monitoring and enforcement powers

 43.—(1) For the purpose of the administration and enforcement of
this Part, any enforcement officer, officer of customs or immigration
officer or, subject to subsection (12), any assisting officer may —

       (a) at any time and without warrant enter, inspect and search
            any premises that are being used, or that the officer
            concerned has reason to suspect are being used, for or in
            connection with any purpose that is in contravention of this
            Part;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

43  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (b) at any time and without warrant stop, board, inspect and
         search any conveyance that is being used, or that the officer
         concerned has reason to suspect is being used, for or in
         connection with any purpose that is in contravention of this
         Part;

    (c) in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed
        and without payment, take for evaluation a sample of any
        essential construction material that is found pursuant to an
        inspection or a search under paragraph (a) or (b);

    (d) seize any other substance or article which the officer
         concerned has reasonable cause to believe to be a
         substance or an article in relation to which, or by means
         of which, an offence under this Part is being or has been
         committed;

    (e) require any person —

    (i) to provide any information within the person’s
        knowledge; and

    (ii) to produce for inspection any shipping bill, bill of
         lading or other document or record within the
         person’s possession,

    (e) that the officer concerned believes on reasonable grounds
        to be connected with any suspected contravention of this
        Part or to be otherwise relevant to the administration or
        enforcement of this Part;

    (f) retain the original copy of any shipping bill, bill of lading
        or other document or record that the officer concerned
        believes on reasonable grounds to be connected with any
        suspected contravention of this Part or to be otherwise
        relevant to the administration or enforcement of this Part,
        or make or cause to be made, without payment, copies of or
        extracts from such document or record; and

    (g) by written notice require any person having in the person’s
         possession any essential construction material that is
         imported or intended for use or supply to submit, at the
         Authority’s own expense, a sample of such essential

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       44

          construction material to an authorised analyst for
          evaluation for the purposes of this Part.

 (2) In exercising his or her power under subsection (1)(a) or (b), an
enforcement officer, officer of customs, immigration officer or any
assisting officer may —

(a) require the owner or occupier of any premises or
     conveyance being inspected to provide all reasonable
     assistance to the officer concerned for the purpose of the
     inspection; and

(b) if the circumstances so warrant, with such assistance as he
     or she thinks necessary, break open any door, window,
     lock, fastener, hold, compartment, box, container or any
     other thing,

and any person who fails to comply with any requirement of an
enforcement officer, officer of customs, immigration officer or
assisting officer under paragraph (a) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) The Authority may, by written notice, require any licensee who
imports or supplies any essential construction material to cease
(whether immediately or within such time as the Authority may
specify) the import or supply of such material if —

(a) a sample of the essential construction material has been
     taken or obtained under subsection (1)(c) for evaluation or
     has been required to be submitted under subsection (1)(g)
     for evaluation; and

(b) pending the result of that evaluation, the Authority is of the
     opinion that it is necessary to prevent any more of such
     essential construction material from further being imported
     or supplied.

(4) Where any item has been seized under subsection (1)(d) —

(a) the enforcement officer, officer of customs, immigration
     officer or assisting officer who seized the item must
     immediately give written notice of the seizure to the person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

45  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    from whom the item was seized, if the name and address of
    that person are known;

    (b) any person claiming the item seized may within 48 hours
         after the seizure complain of the seizure to a Magistrate,
         and the Magistrate may hear and determine the complaint
         and may —

    (i) confirm the seizure wholly or in part;

    (ii) disallow the seizure wholly or in part;

    (iii) order that the item seized be restored to its owner,
          subject to any condition the Magistrate may think fit
          to impose to ensure that the item is preserved for any
          purpose for which it may subsequently be required;
          or

    (iv) order payment to be made to the owner of the item
         seized of such amount as the Magistrate considers
         will compensate the owner for any loss or
         depreciation resulting from the seizure;

    (c) in the absence of any claim under paragraph (b) or pending
        the determination of any such claim, the item may be kept
        or stored in the premises or conveyance where it was
        seized or may, at the direction of the enforcement officer,
        officer of customs, immigration officer or assisting officer,
        be removed to any other place to be kept or stored thereat;
        and

    (d) the enforcement officer, officer of customs, immigration
         officer or assisting officer (as the case may be) may mark,
         seal or label the item in such manner as he or she thinks fit
         for the purpose of indicating that the item is under
         detention, and lock or seal the premises or conveyance
         in which the item is being detained.

 (5) Any person who, without the authority of an enforcement
officer, officer of customs, immigration officer or assisting officer —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       46

(a) interferes, tampers with, removes, distributes, sells or
     otherwise disposes of any item seized under
     subsection (1)(d);

(b) alters, counterfeits, defaces, destroys, erases or removes
     any mark, seal or label placed by the enforcement officer,
     officer of customs, immigration officer or assisting officer
     on the item under subsection (4)(d); or

          (c) opens, breaks or otherwise tampers with the lock or seal
              placed by the enforcement officer, officer of customs,
              immigration officer or assisting officer on any premises or
              conveyance or part thereof under subsection (4)(d),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (1)(e), where any document or
record required by an enforcement officer, officer of customs,
immigration officer or assisting officer is kept in electronic form,
then —

(a) the power of the officer concerned to require such
     document or record to be produced for inspection
     includes the power to require a copy of the document or
     record to be made available for inspection in legible form
     (and subsection (1)(f) applies accordingly in relation to any
     copy so made available); and

(b) the power of the officer concerned to inspect such
     document or record includes the power to require any
     person on the premises in question to give the officer
     concerned such assistance as the officer may reasonably
     require to enable him or her to inspect and make copies of
     the document or record in legible form or to make records
     of the information contained therein.

 (7) Any copy of or extract from any document or record made under
subsection (1)(f) and certified as such by the enforcement officer,
officer of customs, immigration officer or assisting officer is
admissible as evidence in any proceedings under this Part.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

47  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

 (8) Any person who, when required by an enforcement officer,
officer of customs, immigration officer or assisting officer under
subsection (1)(e) to provide any information or produce for
inspection any document or record, refuses or fails, without
reasonable excuse, to provide the information or to produce the
document or record within the time allowed by the officer concerned
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (9) Any person who, when required by an enforcement officer,
officer of customs, immigration officer or assisting officer under
subsection (1)(e) to provide any information or produce any
document or record, in compliance or purported compliance with
such requirement, provides the officer concerned any information,
document or record which the person knows is false or misleading
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (10) Any person who fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with any written notice given to the person —

    (a) by an enforcement officer, officer of customs, immigration
         officer or assisting officer under subsection (1)(g); or

    (b) by the Authority under subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

 (11) All samples of any material taken in accordance with
subsection (1)(c) or (g) are to be dealt with as prescribed.

 (12) Despite anything in this section, an assisting officer who is not
a police officer, an officer of customs or an immigration officer is not
authorised by this section to assist in searching or arresting any
person.

                                                                             [31Q

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
            Building and Construction

2020 Ed.    Authority Act 1999                                     48

Forfeiture

 44.—(1) The court before which any person is tried for an offence
under this Part may make an order for the forfeiture of any item which
has been seized under the provisions of this Part if the court is
satisfied that —

(a) an offence under this Part has been committed; and

(b) the item seized was the subject matter, or was used in the
     commission, of the offence.

 (2) Where no party raises the question of forfeiture under
subsection (1), the court may consider the question on its own
motion.

 (3) The court may make an order under subsection (1) for the
forfeiture of any item which has been seized under the provisions of
this Part even though no person has been convicted of an offence.

 (4) If the court, having regard to the circumstances of the case, does
not think it fit to order the forfeiture of any item which has been
seized under the provisions of this Part, the court must order that the
item be released to the owner of the item or the person entitled to the
item.

 (5) If no prosecution is instituted with regard to any item which has
been seized under the provisions of this Part, and no claim is made for
the item under section 43(4)(b), the item to which the notice relates is
deemed to be forfeited.

 (6) Where the owner of any item seized under the provisions of this
Part consents to its disposal, the item is upon such consent deemed to
be forfeited.

 (7) Any item forfeited or deemed to be forfeited under this section
must be delivered to the Authority or an officer of the Authority and
be disposed of in such manner as the Authority thinks fit.

 (8) The costs of the disposal of any item under subsection (7) are to
be borne by the owner of that item.

                                                                             [31R

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Building and Construction

49                     Authority Act 1999                    2020 Ed.

    Division 5 — Miscellaneous

Register of licensees

 45.—(1) The Authority must keep a register of licensees
containing —

    (a) the names of all persons licensed under this Part;

    (b) the date the licence is granted to the person and the date of
         its expiry; and

    (c) such other particulars in relation thereto as may from time
        to time be prescribed.

(2) A person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, if any —

    (a) inspect the register of licensees during the ordinary
         business hours of the Authority; or

    (b) obtain from the Authority a certificate as to whether a
         named person was a licensee on a specified date or during a
         specified period.

 (3) A certificate purporting to be signed by the Authority certifying
that a person was or was not licensed under this Part on a specified
date or during a specified period is admissible in any proceedings as
evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.

                                                                             [31S

Exemption

 46.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons, any premises or class of premises, or any
essential construction material from all or any of the requirements of
any provision in this Part.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), nothing in this Part prohibits
or prevents any person not licensed under this Part from importing —

       (a) worked monumental granite, granite sculptures or statues;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       50

(b) millstones, grindstones, grinding wheels made of granite
     and the like, for grinding, sharpening, polishing, trueing or
     cutting, hand sharpening or polishing stones or metal.
                                                                     [31T

Power to make regulations under this Part

 47.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the provisions of this Part and for
the due administration thereof and, in particular, for or with respect to
all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the form and procedure for applications for licences,
            import permits and storage permits;

       (b) the keeping of records and provision of returns by licensees
            in relation to the import, storage and supply of essential
            construction materials by licensees;

       (c) the duties of any person to whom any licence, import
            permit or storage permit is granted under this Part, and the
            duties of such a person upon the suspension, revocation or
            cancellation of such licence or permit;

       (d) the requirements in accordance with which the import,
            storage or supply of essential construction materials by
            licensees are to be carried out;

       (e) the procedures to be followed by any enforcement officer
            or authorised analyst in the sampling or evaluation of
            essential construction materials under this Part, including
            the periods within which any such evaluations are to be
            completed;

        (f) the conduct by an enforcement officer or assisting officer
            of routine inspections of premises that are being used for
            the supply or storage of essential construction materials;

       (g) the fees to be paid in respect of any matter or anything
            done, or any services rendered, by the Authority under or
            by virtue of this Part, and the waiver or refund, in whole or
            in part, by such officers of the Authority of any such fees in
            the circumstances of any particular case;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

51  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (h) the scheme mentioned in section 39 for the designation of
         authorised analysts;

    (i) the prescribing of offences in respect of the contravention
        of any regulations made under this section, and prescribing
        of fines, not exceeding $20,000 and imprisonment which
        may not exceed 2 years or both, that may, on conviction, be
        imposed in respect of any such offence;

    (j) the prescribing of anything that may be prescribed.

 (2) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                             [31U

                                    PART 8

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Authority’s symbol

 48.—(1) The Authority has the exclusive right to the use of such
symbol or representation as it may select or devise and thereafter
display or exhibit in connection with its activities or affairs.

 (2) Any person who uses a symbol or representation identical to
that of the Authority, or which so resembles the Authority’s symbol or
representation as to deceive or cause confusion, or to be likely to
deceive or to cause confusion, shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                               [33

Penalty for obtaining grants, loans or financial assistance by
false or misleading statements

 49.—(1) Any person who obtains payment of any grant or loan or
any other form of financial assistance from the Authority by means of
any false or misleading statement or any document that is false or
misleading in any particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $25,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       52

 (2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under this section, the
court may, in addition to imposing a penalty under this section, order
the person to repay the amount of any money wrongfully obtained.

 (3) Where an order has been made under subsection (2), a certified
copy of the order may be filed in a court having civil jurisdiction to
the extent of the amount ordered to be repaid and the order is
thereupon enforceable in all respects as the final judgment of that
court.

                                                                               [34

Obstructing officers in execution of their duties, etc.

 50.—(1) Any person who obstructs, hinders or impedes any
enforcement officer or assisting officer within the meaning of
Part 7 or any other person acting under the direction of the
Authority in the performance or execution of his or her duty or
anything which he or she is authorised, empowered or required to do
under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Any person who alters, suppresses, conceals or destroys any
document which the person is or is liable to be required, by or under
this Act, to produce to an enforcement officer or assisting officer
within the meaning of Part 7 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) Every police officer, officer of customs or immigration officer,
and every enforcement officer and assisting officer within the
meaning of Part 7 when exercising any powers under that Part or
other provisions of this Act must —

       (a) if not in uniform, declare his or her office; and

       (b) on demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise
            of those powers such identification card as the
            Commissioner of Police, the Director-General of
            Customs, the Controller of Immigration or the Chief
            Executive, respectively, may direct to be carried by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

53  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    police officer, officer of customs, immigration officer,
    enforcement officer and assisting officer.

 (4) It is not an offence for any person to refuse to comply with any
request, demand or order made or given by —

    (a) any police officer, officer of customs or immigration
         officer not in uniform who fails to declare his or her office
         and refuses to produce his or her identification card on
         demand by that person; or

    (b) any enforcement officer and assisting officer within the
         meaning of Part 7 who fails to declare his or her office and
         refuses to produce his or her identification card on demand
         by that person.
                                                                         [34A

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 51.—(1) Where an offence committed by a body corporate is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or
to be attributable to any neglect on the part of —

       (a) any director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of
            the body corporate; or

       (b) any person who was purporting to act in any such capacity,

he or she, as well as the body corporate, shall be guilty of that offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence committed by a partnership is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            any partner of the partnership; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of any partner
            of the partnership,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Building and Construction

2020 Ed.               Authority Act 1999                          54

he or she, as well as the partnership, shall be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly; and
a fine imposed on a partnership in such proceedings are to be paid out
of the partnership assets.

 (4) Where an offence committed by an unincorporated association
(other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     any officer of the unincorporated association or any
     member of its governing body, as the case may be; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of any such
     officer or member,

he or she, as well as the unincorporated association, shall be guilty of
that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership (which
   has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
   Liability Partnerships Act 2005);

“offence” means an offence under this Act or any regulations
   made under this Act;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of such a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

55  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations providing for the
application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                             [34B

Composition of offences

 52.—(1) The Chief Executive or any officer of the Authority duly
authorised by the Chief Executive to do so may compound any
offence under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Authority.

                                                                             [34C

Jurisdiction of court

 53. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

                                                                             [34D

Service of documents, etc.
 54.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), any document required or

authorised to be served under this Act may be served —
       (a) in the case of an individual —
               (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       56

          (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
               at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post to, the
               usual or last known address of the individual’s place
               of residence;

          (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                employed at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
                post to, the usual or last known address of the
                individual’s place of business;

          (iv) by affixing a copy of the notice in a conspicuous
               place at the usual or last known address of the
               individual’s residence or business;

          (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
               usual or last known address of the individual’s place
               of residence or business, or the last fax number given
               to the Authority or an authorised officer by the
               individual as the fax number for the service of
               documents on the individual; or

          (vi) by electronic communication, by sending an
               electronic communication of the document to the
               last email address given to the Authority or an
               authorised officer by the individual as the email
               address for the service of documents on the
               individual;

(b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
     partnership —

          (i) by delivering it to any partner or the secretary or
              other like officer of the partnership;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
               post to, the partnership’s principal or last known
               place of business in Singapore;

          (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
                partnership’s principal or last known place of
                business in Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

57  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

    (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
         electronic communication of the document to the
         last email address given to the Authority or an
         authorised officer by the partnership as the email
         address for the service of documents on the
         partnership; and

    (c) in the case of any limited liability partnership or any other
        body corporate —

    (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
        of the body corporate or, in the case of a limited
        liability partnership, the manager of the limited
        liability partnership;

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered
         post to, the registered office or principal office of the
         limited liability partnership or body corporate in
         Singapore;

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
          registered office or principal office of the limited
          liability partnership or body corporate in Singapore;
          or

    (iv) by electronic communication, by sending an
         electronic communication of the document to the
         last email address given to the Authority or an
         authorised officer by the limited liability partnership
         or body corporate as the email address for the service
         of documents on the limited liability partnership or
         body corporate.

 (2) Where any notice or other document required or authorised to
be served under this Act is sent —

    (a) by fax to the fax number used at the last known place of
         residence or business or registered office or principal office
         in accordance with subsection (1) — it is deemed to have
         been duly served on the person to whom it is addressed on
         the day of transmission, subject to receipt on the sending
         fax machine of a notification (by electronic or other means)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Building and Construction

2020 Ed.  Authority Act 1999                                       58

          of successful transmission to the place of residence or
          business or registered office or principal office, as the case
          may be;

(b) by electronic communication to an email address in
     accordance with subsection (1) — it is deemed to have
     been duly served on the person to whom it is addressed at
     the time of entering the information system addressed to
     the email address; and

          (c) by prepaid registered post — it is deemed to have been
              duly served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days
              after the day the notice or document was posted, whether or
              not it is returned undelivered.

 (3) Service of any document under this Act on a person by
electronic communication may be effected only if the person gives an
email address as part of the person’s address for service.

 (4) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

                                                                             [34E

Regulations

 55. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) regulating the proceedings of the Authority or of the
            committees of the Authority, to the extent not inconsistent
            with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018;

       (b) providing for the circumstances in which applications may
            be made to the Authority for financial assistance and the
            manner and determination of such applications;

       (c) prescribing any matters which are necessary or convenient
            to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to the
            provisions of this Act.
                                                                               [35

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Building and Construction

59  Authority Act 1999                                       2020 Ed.

Saving and transitional provisions

 56.—(1) Any scheme, contract, document, certificate, licence,
permission or resolution prepared, made, granted or approved
under the repealed Construction Industry Development Board Act
(Cap. 51, 1985 Revised Edition), so far as it is not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, continues and is deemed to have been
prepared, made, granted or approved under this Act.

 (2) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed
Construction Industry Development Board Act (Cap. 51,
1985 Revised Edition) and in force immediately before 1 April
1999, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act,
continues in force as if made under this Act until it is revoked by
subsidiary legislation made under this Act.

(3) Where in any written law reference is made to —

    (a) the Construction Industry Development Board, such
         reference is a reference to the Building and Construction
         Authority; and

    (b) the Building Authority, such reference is a reference to the
         Commissioner of Building Control.
                                                                           [36

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                  BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION

                         AUTHORITY ACT 1999

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                   PART 1
CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT BOARD ACT

             (CHAPTER 51, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 3 of 1984 — Construction Industry Development Board Act 1984

Bill           : 17/1983

First Reading  : 20 December 1983

Second and Third Readings : 17 January 1984

Commencement   : 2 March 1984

2. 1985 Revised Edition — The Construction Industry Development Board
                                   Act (Chapter 51)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      ii

                                  PART 2
                   LAND IMPROVEMENT ACT
           (CHAPTER 153, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

3. Ordinance II of 1901 — The Land Improvement Ordinance 1901

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1443/1900

First Reading         : 8 January 1901

Second Reading        : 15 January 1901

Notice of Amendments  : 5 February 1901

Third Reading         : 5 February 1901

Commencement          : 5 February 1901

4. Ordinance VI of 1908 — The Land Improvement Ordinance 1901
                                     Amendment Ordinance 1908

Bill                  : G.N. No. 436/1908

First Reading         : 1 May 1908

Second Reading        : 22 May 1908

Third Reading         : 7 August 1908

Commencement          : 19 August 1908

5. Ordinance I of 1901 — The Land Improvement Ordinance 1901
                                  Amendment Ordinance 1910

Bill                  : G.N. No. 823/1909

First Reading         : 6 August 1909

Second Reading        : 13 August 1909

Notice of Amendments  : 11 March 1910

Third Reading         : 18 March 1910

Commencement          : 31 March 1910

6. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 70 (Land Improvement)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

7. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 70 (Land Improvement)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

8. 1936 Revised Edition — Land Improvement Ordinance (Chapter 123)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               iii

9. Ordinance 8 of 1955 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Miscellaneous
                                   Amendments) Ordinance, 1955

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 11 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill           : 45/1954

First Reading  : 14 December 1954

Second and Third Readings : 28 January 1955

Commencement   : 4 February 1955 (section 2 read with
                     item 11 of the Schedule)

10. G.N. No. S 265/1955 — Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1955
                                    (Consequential Provisions) (Miscellaneous)
                                    Order, 1955

Commencement   : 17 September 1955

11. 1955 Revised Edition — Land Improvement Ordinance (Chapter 249)

Operation      : 1 July 1956

12. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement   : 3 June 1959

13. G.N. Sp. No. S 47/1963 — State Laws (Modification) (No. 3) Order, 1963

Commencement   : 16 September 1963

14. 1970 Revised Edition — Land Improvement Act (Chapter 273)

Operation      : 31 August 1971

15. 1985 Revised Edition — Land Improvement Act (Chapter 153)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                  PART 3
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY ACT 1993

                     (2020 REVISED EDITION)

16. Act 4 of 1999 — Building and Construction Authority Act 1999

Bill           : 51/1998

First Reading  : 23 November 1998

Second and Third Readings : 20 January 1999

Commencement   : 1 April 1999

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               iv

17. 2000 Revised Edition — Building and Construction Authority Act
                                     (Chapter 30A)

Operation      : 30 December 2000

18. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (2) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (2) of the Schedule)

19. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004
     (Amendments made by section 25(4) read with item (6) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004 (section 25(4) read
                     with item (6) of the Schedule)

20. Act 47 of 2007 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 19 read with item (1) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill           : 34/2007

First Reading  : 27 August 2007

Second and Third Readings : 20 September 2007

Commencement   : 15 February 2008 (section 19 read
                     with item (1) of the Second Schedule)

21. Act 25 of 2009 — Quorums of Statutory Boards (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2009

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 2 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 19/2009

First Reading  : 14 September 2009

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2009

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      v

Commencement          : 15 January 2010 (section 2 read with
                            item 2 of the Schedule)

22. Act 12 of 2009 — Building and Construction Authority (Amendment)
                             Act 2009

Bill                  : 2/2009

First Reading         : 19 January 2009

Second and Third Readings : 23 March 2009

Commencement          : 28 February 2011

23. 2012 Revised Edition — Building and Construction Authority Act
                                     (Chapter 30A)

Operation             : 30 November 2012

24. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 51 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 51)

25. 2020 Revised Edition — Building and Construction
                                     Authority Act 1999

Operation             : 31 December 2021

26. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

27. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill                  : 12/2026

First Reading         : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement          : 1 July 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
.                                 vi
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               COMPARATIVE TABLE

        BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
               AUTHORITY ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
                  8 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                 9
8
                     (1A)
   (2)               (2)
   (3)            10
9                 11
10                12
11                13
12                14
13                15 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                 16
14                17
15                18
16                19
17                19A
18                20
19                21 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                 22 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                 23 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                 24 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
—                 25
20                26
21                27
22

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 2020 Ed.  ii
23
24                                            2012 Ed.
25                          28
26                          29
27                          30
28                          31
29                          31A
30                          31B
31                          31C
32                          31D
33                          31E
34                          31F
35                          31G
36                          31H
37                          31I
38                          31J
39                          31K
40                          31L
41                          31M
42                          31N
43                          31O
44                          31P
45                          31Q
46                          31R
47                          31S
[Omitted as spent]          31T
—                           31U
48                          31V
                            32 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
                            33

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
        2020 Ed.  iii

49                                    2012 Ed.
—                   34

   (2)                 (2) [Deleted by Act 12 of 2009]
   (3)                 (3)
50                     (4)
51                  34A
52                  34B
53                  34C
54                  34D
55                  34E
56                  35
                    36

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
