THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          SCHOOL BOARDS (INCORPORATION)
                               ACT 1990

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

School Boards (Incorporation)
            Act 1990

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

             ESTABLISHMENT OF GOVERNING BOARDS
                                 FOR SCHOOLS

3. Establishment of governing boards for schools
4. Variation of constitutions of governing boards
5. Powers of governing boards of schools
6. Common seal and execution of documents
7. Establishment of governing boards for aided schools
8. Protection of governors from personal liability

                                        PART 3

         DISCONTINUANCE OF SCHOOLS AND WINDING UP
                           OF GOVERNING BOARDS

 9. Discontinuance of schools
10. Minister may appoint Director-General to take over conduct of

         schools
11. Winding up of governing boards

                                        PART 4
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

12. Government grants to governing boards
13. Registration of schools
14. Registration of managers of schools

                                                      1

                                                         31.12.2021
   School Boards (Incorporation)

2  Act 1990                                                    2020 Ed.

Section
   15. Operation of this Act not to affect Education Act 1957
   16. Transfer of property to governing boards

An Act to make provisions for the incorporation of governing boards
  for the purpose of conducting Government schools and aided
  schools and for matters connected therewith.

                                                              [1 January 1990]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the School Boards (Incorporation) Act 1990.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “aided school” means a school which —
              (a) is established by any person other than the
                   Government; and
              (b) is conducted by a committee of management which is
                   in receipt of a grant-in-aid from the Government for
                   defraying the expenses incurred for conducting the
                   school;
      “Director-General” means the Director-General of Education;
      “governing board” means a governing board constituted by an
         order made by the Minister under section 3(1) for the purpose
         of conducting a school named in the order;
      “governor” means a member of a governing board.
          School Boards (Incorporation)

2020 Ed.  Act 1990                                           3

          PART 2

          ESTABLISHMENT OF GOVERNING BOARDS
                              FOR SCHOOLS

Establishment of governing boards for schools

 3.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, by order in the
Gazette, establish a governing board by any name that the Minister
may designate for the purpose of conducting a school named in the
order and promulgate a constitution for that governing board.

 (2) A governing board established pursuant to an order made under
subsection (1) is a body corporate by the name specified in the order
capable of performing such acts as bodies corporate may by law
perform and of suing and being sued and having perpetual succession
and a common seal with power to exercise and perform the functions
and duties that are conferred or imposed on it by or under this Act and
the order made under subsection (1).

 (3) A governing board consists of such number of governors as may
be prescribed in an order made under subsection (1).

 (4) Without limiting subsection (1), an order made under that
subsection may make provisions —

(a) to provide that the appointments of governors are to be
     made with the approval of the Minister;

(b) as to the tenure of office and the qualifications of
     governors;

          (c) as to the suspension or removal from office of governors;

(d) as to the circumstances in which persons are disqualified
     for holding office as governors;

          (e) for filling vacancies in the governing board;

          (f) as to the election or appointment of a chairperson or
              vice-chairperson (if any) of the governing board;

(g) to provide that the principal of the school named in the
     order is to be appointed by the governing board with the
     approval of the Director-General;

                                                             31.12.2021
   School Boards (Incorporation)

4  Act 1990                                            2020 Ed.

   (h) conferring upon the governing board full discretion to act
        with respect to the following matters:

   (i) the recruitment, promotion and dismissal of and the
       exercise of disciplinary control over teachers and
       other staff of the school;

   (ii) determining the policy or conditions for the
        admission of pupils to the school and the dismissal
        of pupils;

   (iii) determining the fees payable by the pupils of the
         school;

   (i) to allow the governing board to retain the fees collected
       from the pupils of the school for the purpose of defraying
       expenses incurred for conducting the school;

   (j) as to the establishment, constitution, meetings and
       proceedings of committees;

   (k) for the delegation of functions of the governing board in
       such circumstances as may be specified in the order to
       committees established by the governing board or to any
       governor; and

   (l) as to the procedure (including any quorum) when business
       is transacted by the governing board.

 (5) Subject to the provisions of an order made under subsection (1),
a governing board may regulate its own procedure.

   (6) The proceedings of a governing board are not invalidated by —

   (a) any vacancy among the governors; or

   (b) any defect in the appointment of any governor.

 (7) The provision mentioned in subsection (4)(j) may provide for a
committee to include persons who are not governors.

Variation of constitutions of governing boards

 4. The constitution of a governing board contained in an order made
under section 3(1) may be varied or revoked by the Minister, but
before varying or revoking the constitution and making a new
          School Boards (Incorporation)

2020 Ed.  Act 1990                       5

constitution for any governing board, the Minister must consult the
governing board concerned.

Powers of governing boards of schools

 5.—(1) A governing board has power to conduct the school named
in the order made under section 3(1) incorporating that governing
board.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any order made under
section 3(1), the governing board of the school has power to do
anything which appears to it to be necessary or expedient for the
purpose of or in connection with the conduct of the school, including
in particular power —

       (a) to assume the conduct of the school as from the date of
            incorporation specified in the order relating to the school
            and for that purpose to receive any property, rights and to
            assume any liability and obligation for which the
            governing board agrees to accept responsibility;

       (b) to acquire and dispose of land and other property;

       (c) to enter into contracts, including in particular contracts for
            the employment of teachers and other staff;

       (d) to borrow moneys for the purposes of meeting the expenses
            of conducting the school or any liability and obligation of
            the governing board;

       (e) to grant any mortgage, charge or other security in respect
            of any land;

        (f) to invest any sums not immediately required for the
            purposes of meeting the expenses of conducting the school
            or any liability of the governing board; and

       (g) to accept gifts of money, land or other property and apply
            it, or hold or administer it on trust, for any such purposes.

 (3) Without affecting subsection (2), but subject to the provisions of
an order made under section 3(1) for the conduct of the school, the
governing board also has power to provide education at the school.

                                         31.12.2021
   School Boards (Incorporation)

6  Act 1990                             2020 Ed.

Common seal and execution of documents

 6.—(1) A governing board must provide for the safe custody of its
common seal which may only be affixed to an instrument or
document in the presence of any 2 persons, being governors, that the
governing board determines, or in the absence of any such
determination, in the presence of 2 governors, who must sign the
instrument to which the common seal is affixed.

 (2) Any document purported to be an instrument made or issued by
or on behalf of a governing board and to be duly executed under the
seal of the governing board, or to be signed or executed by a person
authorised by the governing board to act in that behalf, must be
received in evidence and be treated, without further proof, as being so
made or issued unless the contrary is shown.

Establishment of governing boards for aided schools

 7. The Minister must not establish a governing board for the
purpose of conducting an aided school unless the person or body of
persons which established the aided school agrees to the
establishment of a governing board under section 3(1) for the
purpose of conducting that school.

Protection of governors from personal liability

 8. Except as provided in this Act, no governor shall, by virtue
merely of his or her holding that office —

       (a) be liable to contribute towards the payment of the debts
            and liabilities incurred in the conduct of a school or the
            costs, charges and expenses of a winding up of the
            governing board of which he or she is a member; or

       (b) be conferred with any right, title or interest, whether legal
            or equitable, in the property of the governing board,

and no suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally against that
governor for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be
done in the conduct of a school or in the execution or purported
execution of this Act.
          School Boards (Incorporation)

2020 Ed.  Act 1990                        7

          PART 3

DISCONTINUANCE OF SCHOOLS AND WINDING UP
                  OF GOVERNING BOARDS

Discontinuance of schools

 9.—(1) The governing board of a school must not discontinue the
school except in pursuance of proposals approved by the
Director-General under this section.

 (2) Where the governing board of a school decides by a resolution
passed at a meeting of the governing board to discontinue the school,
the governing board must, as soon as practicable after the passing of
the resolution, submit to the Director-General its proposals for that
purpose.

 (3) The Director-General may reject any proposals under this
section or approve them with or without modifications.

Minister may appoint Director-General to take over conduct of
schools

 10.—(1) Where the Minister is satisfied that the governing board of
a school has failed to conduct the school efficiently or that the
education of the pupils of the school is not being promoted in a proper
manner, the Minister may by order appoint the Director-General to
exercise and perform the powers, duties and functions of the
governing board for the period that the Minister may specify.

 (2) The Minister must not make an order under subsection (1)
unless the Minister has given not less than 90 days’ notice in writing
to the chairperson of the governing board of the Minister’s intention
to appoint the Director-General to exercise and perform all or such of
the powers, duties and functions of the governing board and the
chairperson may make representations to the Minister within 60 days
of the service of the notice.

 (3) Where the Minister has made an order under subsection (1), no
governor, while his or her appointment remains valid, may exercise or
perform any power, authority, duty or function which the
Director-General is authorised to exercise or perform by that order
and any such power, function or duty may be exercised or performed

                                         31.12.2021
   School Boards (Incorporation)

8  Act 1990                       2020 Ed.

by the Director-General in the name and on behalf of the governing
board.

 (4) The costs and expenses incurred by the Director-General
pursuant to an appointment under this section are to be paid out of
the funds of the governing board.

Winding up of governing boards

 11.—(1) Where —

       (a) any proposals by a governing board of a school have been
            approved under section 9;

       (b) the registration of the school concerned under the
            Education Act 1957 is cancelled; or

       (c) the conduct of a school has been taken over by the
            Director-General under section 10 for a period exceeding
            12 months,

the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, make provisions for the
winding up of the governing board of the school and the disposal of
the property of the governing board.

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) may —

       (a) set out proposals for the winding up of a governing board
            and, in particular, for —

               (i) securing that all property belonging to the governing
                   board or held by any trustees on trust for the purposes
                   of the school is brought into the custody or control of
                   that governing board or those trustees, as the case
                   may be;

              (ii) discharging any liabilities of the governing board;

             (iii) the preparation and audit of the final accounts of the
                   governing board; and

             (iv) the sale and disposition of any property of the
                   governing board;
          School Boards (Incorporation)

2020 Ed.  Act 1990                       9

(b) provide for the appointment and powers of any person to
     carry out the winding up of the affairs of the governing
     board;

          (c) require the governing board to give to persons employed
              by it notice terminating their contracts of employment as
              from a date specified in the order;

(d) appoint a date on which the governing board is to be
     dissolved; and

          (e) make any other incidental, consequential or supplementary
              provisions relating to the dissolution of the governing
              board that may be necessary or expedient.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Government grants to governing boards

 12. The Minister may from time to time make grants out of moneys
provided by Parliament to the governing board of a school for the
purpose of defraying the expenses incurred for conducting the school.

Registration of schools

 13. Every school which is conducted by a governing board
established under this Act is deemed to be registered under the
provisions of the Education Act 1957 from the date of incorporation
of the governing board.

Registration of managers of schools

 14. For the purposes of the Education Act 1957, every governor is
deemed to be a registered manager of a school as from the date of his
or her appointment as a governor.

Operation of this Act not to affect Education Act 1957

 15. Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, nothing in this
Act affects the operation of the Education Act 1957 or any regulations
made under that Act.

                                         31.12.2021
    School Boards (Incorporation)

10  Act 1990                              2020 Ed.

Transfer of property to governing boards

 16. Where a school conducted by a governing board was conducted
by the Government immediately before the incorporation of the
governing board, the Director-General may transfer to the governing
board any property which immediately before the date of
incorporation was property used or held by the Director-General
for the purposes of the school.
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      SCHOOL BOARDS (INCORPORATION)
                         ACT 1990

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 4 of 1990 — School Boards (Incorporation) Act 1990

Bill           : 2/1990

First Reading  : 15 January 1990

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 1990

Commencement   : 1 January 1990

2. 1991 Revised Edition — School Boards (Incorporation) Act
                                    (Chapter 284A)

Operation      : 1 March 1991

3. 2013 Revised Edition — School Boards (Incorporation) Act
                                    (Chapter 284A)

Operation      : 31 August 2013

                                                             31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
