         PLATFORM WORKERS ACT 2024

         (No. 30 of 2024)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
     1.  General interpretation
     2.  Meaning of platform service
     3.  Meaning of platform operator
     4.  Meaning of platform worker
     5.  Meaning of management control in respect of provision of
     6.  platform service
         No contracting out of rights of platform worker to join,
     7.  participate in or organise platform work associations

                                        PART 2

                            PLATFORM OPERATORS

            Division 1 — Notification by platform operators, etc.

 8. Platform operator must notify Commissioner
 9. Notification of cessation as platform operator
10. Power of Commissioner to require notification
11. Compliance with obligations of platform operator
12. List of platform operators

                Division 2 — Obligations of platform operator

13. Platform operator’s obligation — records in respect of platform
         workers

14. Platform operator’s obligation — earnings slips for platform
         workers

              Division 3 — Judicial management, insolvency or
                         bankruptcy of platform operator

15. Judicial management of platform operator

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2        NO. 30 OF 2024

Section  Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers in
   16.   winding up of platform operator
         Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers where
   17.   debt repayment scheme applicable to platform operator
         Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers in
   18.   bankruptcy of platform operator

                                           PART 3

                        PLATFORM WORK ASSOCIATIONS

                                   Division 1 — General

   19. Interpretation of this Part
   20. Appointment of Registrar, etc.
   21. Register of platform work associations

             Division 2 — Registration of platform work associations

   22. Registration of platform work associations
   23. Application for registration
   24. Registration
   25. Power of Registrar to require alteration of name
   26. Cancellation of registration
   27. Power to stop payment of money held by financial institution
   28. Consequences of failure to register or cancellation of registration
   29. Consequences upon dissolution of platform work association

        Division 3 — Rights and liabilities of platform work associations

   30. Disabilities of unregistered platform work association
   31. Immunity from civil suit in certain cases
   32. Liability in tort
   33. Liability in contract
   34. Objects in restraint of trade not unlawful in case of registered

            platform work association
   35. Proceedings by and against platform work association
   36. Strike or industrial action

                                Division 4 — Constitution

   37. Membership of minors
   38. Public officers, etc., not to be members of platform work

            association
   39. Officers of platform work association

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
         PLATFORM WORKERS                                                3

Section  Authority of officers, etc., to bind platform work association
   40.   without ratification
         Employees of platform work association
   41.   Powers of Minister in relation to sections 39 and 41
   42.   Change of name
   43.   Amalgamation
   44.   Notice of change of name or amalgamation
   45.   Effect of change of name or amalgamation
   46.   Registered office
   47.   Rules of registered platform work association
   48.   Secret ballot
   49.   Notification of change of officers, etc.
   50.   Notification of change of employees
   51.   Notice of dissolution
   52.   Trustees
   53.

         Division 5 — Property

54. All property vested in trustees
55. Devolution of property
56. Purchase or lease of land or buildings

         Division 6 — Funds and accounts

57. Application of funds
58. Prohibition of payment of fines or penalties
59. Use of funds for political purposes and investment of those funds
60. Injunction to restrain misuse of funds
61. Treasurer to render accounts
62. Production of documents, etc., for examination
63. Annual returns
64. Inspection of accounts and documents

         Division 7 — Offences and penalties of this Part

65. Penalty for misuse of money or property of registered platform
         work association

66. Supplying false information regarding platform work
         associations

67. Failure to submit returns
68. General penalty
69. Consent of Public Prosecutor

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
4        NO. 30 OF 2024

Section                     Division 8 — Miscellaneous

   70.   This Part not to affect certain agreements
   71.   Societies Act 1966 not applicable to platform work associations
   72.   Service of legal process
   73.   Notification in Gazette
   74.   Appeal to Minister
   75.   Regulations for this Part

                                           PART 4

                           ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES

   76. Civil contraventions
   77. Payment of administrative penalty
   78. Appeal, etc., in relation to contravention notice
   79. Directions in lieu of or in addition to contravention notices

                                           PART 5

                    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

   80. Administration of Act
   81. Powers of Commissioner, authorised officers and authorised

            persons
   82. Notice to platform operator by Commissioner, etc., of inspection

            or visit
   83. Disposal of documents or thing
   84. Offences of wilfully obstructing or delaying Commissioner, etc.
   85. Persons not to reveal protected information

                                           PART 6

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   86. Protection from personal liability
   87. Abetment of offences
   88. Offences by corporations
   89. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   90. Composition of offences
   91. Jurisdiction of court
   92. Service of documents
   93. Interface with other laws
   94. General power to exempt

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                                 5

Section
   95. Amendment of Schedules
   96. Regulations

                                            PART 7

                          AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

   97. Amendment of Central Provident Fund Act 1953
   98. Amendment of Income Tax Act 1947
   99. Amendment of Industrial Relations Act 1960
  100. Amendment of Trade Disputes Act 1941
  101. Amendment of Trade Unions Act 1940
  102. Amendment of Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
  103. Amendment of Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006

                                            PART 8

              CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
                                     TO OTHER ACTS

  104. Amendment of Business Names Registration Act 2014
  105. Amendment of Child Development Co-Savings Act 2001
  106. Amendment of Companies Act 1967
  107. Amendment of Co-operative Societies Act 1979
  108. Amendment of Enlistment Act 1970
  109. Amendment of Extradition Act 1968
  110. Amendment of Foreign Interference (Countermeasures)

            Act 2021
  111. Amendment of Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005
  112. Amendment of Limited Partnerships Act 2008
  113. Amendment of Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act 1990
  114. Amendment of Motor Vehicles (Third-Party Risks and

            Compensation) Act 1960
  115. Amendment of Mutual Benefit Organisations Act 1960
  116. Amendment of Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry

            Act 2019
  117. Amendment of Public Entertainments Act 1958
  118. Amendment of Requisition of Resources Act 1985
  119. Amendment of Road Traffic Act 1961
  120. Amendment of Singapore Labour Foundation Act 1977
  121. Amendment of Societies Act 1966

            First Schedule — Platform services

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
6        NO. 30 OF 2024

Section

         Second Schedule — Requirements, prohibitions and
                                   restrictions in relation to
                                   provision of platform service

         Third Schedule — Matters for which provision must be made
                                   in rules of registered platform
                                   work association

         Fourth Schedule — Amendment of Central Provident Fund
                                   Act 1953

         Fifth Schedule — Amendment of Income Tax Act 1947
         Sixth Schedule — Amendment of Industrial Relations

                                   Act 1960
         Seventh Schedule— Amendment of Trade Disputes Act 1941
         Eighth Schedule — Amendment of Trade Unions Act 1940
         Ninth Schedule — Amendment of Work Injury

                                   Compensation Act 2019
         Tenth Schedule — Amendment of Workplace Safety and

                                   Health Act 2006

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS  7

An Act to provide for the rights and obligations of platform operators
  and platform workers, to register and recognise platform work
  associations and provide for matters connected therewith, to amend
  certain Acts to provide for the rights, obligations, protections and
  representation of platform workers and platform operators under
  those Acts, and to make consequential and related amendments to
  certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
8  NO. 30 OF 2024

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1.—(1) This Act is the Platform Workers Act 2024 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

 (2) A notification made under this section may specify that different
provisions of the Fourth to Tenth Schedules come into operation on
different days.

General interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “authorised officer” means an individual who is appointed under
         section 80(1)(a);

      “civil contravention” means a contravention that is declared to
         be a civil contravention under section 76;

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner for Labour appointed
         under section 3(1) of the Employment Act 1968;

      “earnings”, in relation to a platform worker, means all payments
         payable to the platform worker in relation to the platform
         worker’s provision of a platform service for a platform
         operator under a platform work agreement (including any
         bonus earned by the platform worker from the platform
         operator), but does not include the following amounts:

              (a) contributions paid by the platform operator towards
                   any pension or provident fund for the platform
                   worker;

              (b) payments to the platform worker to cover any special
                   expenses incurred by the platform worker by reason
                   of the platform worker’s provision of the platform
                   service;

      “payment” includes a commission;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         9

      “platform work agreement” means a contract or other agreement
         (whether written or oral and whether express or implied)
         between a platform operator and a platform worker, under
         which the platform worker performs tasks in Singapore in
         relation to the provision of a platform service to service users
         for the platform operator, but does not include a contract of
         service within the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Employment Act 1968;

      “service user”, in relation to a platform service, means a person
         who uses the platform service;

      “task”, in relation to a platform service, means a task —

              (a) for which a request is taken or facilitated by a
                   platform operator; and

              (b) that is performed by a platform worker providing the
                   platform service to one or more service users for the
                   platform operator.

Meaning of platform service

 3.—(1) In this Act, “platform service” means a service specified in
the First Schedule that is provided in Singapore via a digital platform
or other platform by a platform operator exercising management
control in respect of the provision of that service by one or more
platform workers of the platform operator.

 (2) A platform worker provides a platform service to a service user
for a platform operator by performing one or more tasks in relation to
the provision of the platform service by the platform operator to the
service user.

Meaning of platform operator

 4.—(1) In this Act, “platform operator” means a person who —

       (a) provides a platform service in Singapore by —

               (i) entering into a contract or other agreement with one
                   or more service users to provide that platform service
                   to those service users; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
10  NO. 30 OF 2024

              (ii) exercising management control in respect of the
                   provision of that platform service by one or more
                   platform workers of the person; and

       (b) satisfies any other requirement that may be prescribed,

but excludes any person that the Minister may prescribe by order in
the Gazette.

 (2) A person (P) does not cease to be a platform operator by reason
only that P has engaged any other person —

       (a) to carry out or operate any part of the provision of a
            platform service on P’s behalf, including as a
            subcontractor; or

       (b) to exercise management control on P’s behalf in respect of
            the provision of a platform service by any platform worker
            for P.

 (3) In this section, “person” means —

       (a) an individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore and whether physically present in Singapore or
            outside Singapore; or

       (b) any of the following entities whether formed, constituted
            or registered in Singapore or outside Singapore:

               (i) a body corporate (including a limited liability
                   partnership);

              (ii) an unincorporated association;

             (iii) a partnership;

             (iv) a person other than an individual.

Meaning of platform worker

 5.—(1) In this Act, “platform worker” means an individual who —

       (a) has an agreement (whether written or oral and whether
            express or implied) with a platform operator to provide a
            platform service in Singapore to service users for the
            platform operator;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         11

       (b) is subject to the management control of the platform
            operator in respect of the individual’s provision of the
            platform service;

       (c) derives or will derive, under the agreement mentioned in
            paragraph (a), any payment or benefit in kind from the
            individual’s provision of the platform service for the
            platform operator; and

       (d) is in Singapore when providing the platform service,

but excludes an individual who belongs to a prescribed class of
individuals.

 (2) In subsection (1), “agreement” does not include a contract of
service within the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Employment
Act 1968.

Meaning of management control in respect of provision of
platform service

 6.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person (A) exercises
management control in respect of the provision of a platform service
by an individual (B) for A if all of the following are satisfied:

       (a) A uses, for any specified purpose, data relating to —

               (i) service users and persons who intend to use that
                   platform service; and

              (ii) individuals (other than employees of A) who perform
                   or intend to perform tasks in relation to the provision
                   of that platform service for A;

       (b) A’s use of the data mentioned in paragraph (a) for the
            specified purpose does not involve human intervention on
            a regular or routine basis;

       (c) subject to subsection (3), A imposes on B, in relation to B’s
            provision of the platform service for A, any requirement,
            prohibition or restriction specified in the Second Schedule.

 (2) In subsection (1), “specified purpose” means all or any of the
following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
12  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) determining whether B is eligible to provide the platform
            service for A;

       (b) allocating one or more tasks to B to perform, or
            determining the task or tasks that B may choose to
            perform, in relation to B’s provision of the platform
            service for A;

       (c) determining the payment payable to B, or the benefit in
            kind to which B is entitled, in relation to the task or tasks B
            performed in relation to B’s provision of the platform
            service for A;

       (d) any other prescribed purpose.

 (3) Subsection (1)(c) does not include any requirement, prohibition
or restriction imposed by A on B under or in accordance or in
compliance with any written law.

 (4) Without affecting subsection (1), A is presumed, unless proven
otherwise, to exercise management control in respect of B’s provision
of a platform service for A if —

       (a) B provides the platform service for A under a platform
            work agreement between A and B; and

       (b) A requires B to access the tasks to be performed by B in
            relation to B’s provision of the platform service for A by —

               (i) using an app provided or specified by A; or

              (ii) accessing a website specified or designated by A.

 (5) In this section —

      “app” includes a computer program;

      “data” includes individually‑identifiable information and
         anonymised or aggregated information;

      “use” of any data includes the organisation, adaptation,
         alteration or combination of that data.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         13

No contracting out of rights of platform worker to join,
participate in or organise platform work associations

 7.—(1) Subject to any other written law for the time being in force,
every term of an agreement between a platform operator and any
platform worker which purports to restrict or exclude, in any way, the
right of any platform worker to do any of the following is void:

       (a) to join a registered platform work association;

       (b) to participate in the activities of a registered platform work
            association, whether as an officer of the registered platform
            work association or otherwise;

       (c) to associate with any other persons for the purpose of
            organising a platform work association in accordance with
            the provisions of Part 3.

 (2) A platform operator that enters or purports to enter into an
agreement with a term mentioned in subsection (1) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine
            not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) In this section, “registered platform work association” has the
meaning given by section 19.

                                    PART 2
                        PLATFORM OPERATORS
        Division 1 — Notification by platform operators, etc.
Platform operator must notify Commissioner
 8.—(1) A person that satisfies the criteria to be a platform operator
under section 4 must notify the Commissioner of that fact —
       (a) within the prescribed time; and
       (b) in the form and manner that the Commissioner requires.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
14  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (2) A notification under subsection (1) must —

       (a) include the name and particulars of the person notifying
            and any other particulars prescribed; and

       (b) be accompanied by the prescribed fee, if any.

 (3) The Commissioner may, in relation to a notification submitted
in accordance with subsection (1), require the person notifying to
provide any other information or document that the Commissioner
requires.

Notification of cessation as platform operator

 9. A platform operator that ceases to be a platform operator within
the meaning of section 4 must notify the Commissioner of that fact
within the prescribed time.

Power of Commissioner to require notification

 10.—(1) The Commissioner may, for the purpose of ascertaining
whether any person is a platform operator, do either or both of the
following:

       (a) by written notice, require the person to provide any report,
            document or information in respect of any business activity
            of the person;

       (b) enter the business premises of the person during normal
            business hours and carry out any inspection that the
            Commissioner may think necessary.

 (2) The Commissioner may determine that a person is a platform
operator within the meaning of section 4 and require the person to
submit a notification under section 8(1).

Compliance with obligations of platform operator

 11. To avoid doubt, where a person is a platform operator within the
meaning of section 4, the person’s notification or failure to notify
under section 8 or 9 does not affect the person’s obligation to comply
with any requirement applicable to a platform operator under this Act
or any other written law.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         15

List of platform operators

 12. The Commissioner may publish a list of platform operators
known to the Commissioner in any manner that the Commissioner
considers appropriate.

            Division 2 — Obligations of platform operator

Platform operator’s obligation — records in respect of
platform workers

 13.—(1) A platform operator must make, and keep for the period
prescribed (called in this section the record retention period),
specified records containing the prescribed particulars for —

       (a) every platform worker who provides a platform service for
            the platform operator; and

       (b) every individual who has ceased to provide a platform
            service for the platform operator (called in this section the
            former platform worker).

 (2) A platform operator must ensure that a specified record made
and kept under subsection (1) is, during the record retention period
prescribed for the specified record, readily accessible to the platform
worker or former platform worker to which the specified record
relates.

 (3) A platform operator is taken to have failed to comply with
subsection (1) if the platform operator makes or keeps a specified
record that is incomplete or inaccurate, whether or not the platform
operator knew that the specified record is incomplete or inaccurate.

 (4) Different record retention periods may be prescribed for
different classes of platform workers or former platform workers,
for different platform services and for different types of specified
records.

 (5) In this section, “specified record”, for a platform worker or
former platform worker of a platform operator, means a record of
information or particulars about the provision by the platform worker
or former platform worker (as the case may be) of a platform service
for the platform operator.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
16  NO. 30 OF 2024

Platform operator’s obligation — earnings slips for platform
workers

 14.—(1) A platform operator must give to every platform worker,
within the prescribed time, an earnings slip for all earnings paid by
the platform operator in respect of each task performed by the
platform worker in relation to the platform worker’s provision of a
platform service for the platform operator.

 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) continues to apply where the
platform worker, at any time after performing the task mentioned in
that subsection, ceases to provide the platform service for the
platform operator for any reason.

 (3) An earnings slip given by a platform operator to a platform
worker must be in the form prescribed (if any) and must contain all
the information prescribed.

 (4) The requirement to give an earnings slip to a platform worker
under subsection (1) is satisfied if an electronic record containing the
information prescribed for the purposes of subsection (3) is provided
in a manner that enables the information contained in the electronic
record to be accessible and useable by the platform worker for
subsequent reference.

 (5) Where an earnings slip is in respect of 2 or more tasks
performed by the platform worker in relation to the platform worker’s
provision of a platform service for the platform operator, the platform
operator —

       (a) must provide the earnings slip, within the prescribed time,
            in respect of the earliest task performed by the platform
            worker that is included in the document or electronic
            record; and

       (b) must ensure that the earnings slip contains the information
            prescribed for the purposes of subsection (3) in respect of
            each task included in the document or electronic record.

 (6) A platform operator is taken to have failed to comply with
subsection (1) if the earnings slip given to a platform worker is
incomplete or inaccurate, whether or not the platform operator knew
that the earnings slip is incomplete or inaccurate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         17

          Division 3 — Judicial management, insolvency or
                     bankruptcy of platform operator

Judicial management of platform operator

 15.—(1) This section applies where a platform operator that is a
company enters judicial management under the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

 (2) Where platform workers of the platform operator —

       (a) are creditors, by reason that earnings are payable to them
            under platform work agreements or any award or
            agreement regulating conditions under which the
            platform workers provide a platform service for the
            platform operator or otherwise; and

       (b) are members of a platform work association that is
            recognised by the platform operator under the Industrial
            Relations Act 1960,

it is sufficient compliance by the judicial manager with sections 105,
107 and 108 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 if the notice, statement of proposals and revised
proposals mentioned in those sections are sent to the platform
work association representing the platform workers.

 (3) A platform work association to which subsection (2) applies —

       (a) is entitled to represent any such platform workers at a
            meeting of creditors summoned under section 107(1) of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 or,
            with the permission of the General Division of the High
            Court, to apply to the General Division of the High Court
            under section 115 of that Act on their behalf; and

       (b) may make representations to the judicial manager on
            behalf of those platform workers,

in respect of any matter connected with or arising from the
continuation or termination of their platform work agreements, or
any matter relating to any award made by the Industrial Arbitration
Court under the Industrial Relations Act 1960 or any collective

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
18  NO. 30 OF 2024

agreement certified under that Act that affects those platform
workers.

Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers in
winding up of platform operator

 16.—(1) This section applies in relation to a winding up of a
platform operator that is a company under the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

 (2) The following must be paid in priority over all unsecured debts
of the platform operator other than the preferential debts specified in
section 203(1)(a) to (h) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018, and rank in priority after the debts specified
in section 203(1)(h) but before those specified in section 203(1)(i) of
that Act:

       (a) first, all earnings payable to a platform worker, including
            any amount payable by way of reimbursement under any
            platform work agreement or any award or agreement
            regulating the conditions under which any platform worker
            provides a platform service for the platform operator;

       (b) second, all amounts due in respect of any work injury
            compensation payable to or for the benefit of a platform
            worker under the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
            accrued before, on or after the commencement of the
            winding up;

       (c) third, all amounts due in respect of contributions payable,
            during a period of 12 consecutive months commencing not
            earlier than 12 months before and ending not later than
            12 months after the commencement of the winding up, by
            the platform operator, under any written law relating to
            platform workers’ superannuation or provident funds.

 (3) The amount payable under subsection (2)(a) must not exceed
any amount that may be prescribed by the Minister by order in the
Gazette.

 (4) The debts in each class specified in subsection (2) rank in the
order specified in that subsection but debts of the same class rank

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         19

equally between themselves, and are to be paid in full, unless the
property of the platform operator is insufficient to meet them, in
which case the debts of the same class abate in equal proportions
between themselves.

 (5) Where any payment has been made to any platform worker of
the platform operator on account of earnings out of money advanced
by a person for that purpose, the person by whom the money was
advanced, in a winding up —

       (a) has a right of priority in respect of the money so advanced
            and paid, up to the amount by which the sum in respect of
            which the platform worker would have been entitled to
            priority in the winding up has been diminished by reason of
            the payment; and

       (b) has the same right of priority in respect of that amount as
            the platform worker would have had if the payment had not
            been made.

 (6) So far as the assets of the platform operator available for
payment of general creditors are insufficient to meet any preferential
debts specified in —

       (a) section 203(1)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h) of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

       (b) subsection (2)(a) and (c); and

       (c) any amount payable in priority by virtue of subsection (5)
            or section 203(5) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018,

those debts —

       (d) have priority over the claims of the holders of debentures
            under any floating charge created by the platform operator
            (which charge, as created, was a floating charge); and

       (e) must be paid accordingly out of any property comprised in
            or subject to that charge.

 (7) Despite anything in subsection (2), paragraph (b) of that
subsection does not apply in relation to the winding up of a
platform operator that is a company in any case where —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
20  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the
            purpose of reconstruction or amalgamation with another
            company, and the right to the compensation has on the
            reconstruction or amalgamation been preserved to the
            person entitled to that right; or

       (b) the platform operator has entered into a contract with an
            insurer in respect of any liability under any law relating to
            work injury compensation.

Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers where
debt repayment scheme applicable to platform operator

 17.—(1) This section applies in relation to a platform operator who
is a debtor within the meaning given by section 288(1) of the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

 (2) The following must be paid under a debt repayment plan
applicable to the platform operator in priority to all other debts proved
under the debt repayment scheme to which the plan relates and
included in the plan, other than the debts specified in
section 296(1)(a) to (g) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018, and rank in priority after the debts specified
in section 296(1)(g) but before those specified in section 296(1)(h) of
that Act:

       (a) first, all earnings payable to a platform worker, including
            any amount payable by way of reimbursement under any
            platform work agreement or any award or agreement
            regulating the conditions in which any platform worker
            provides a platform service for the platform operator;

       (b) second, all amounts due in respect of any work injury
            compensation payable to or for the benefit of a platform
            worker under the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
            accrued before, on or after the effective date of the scheme;

       (c) third, all amounts due in respect of contributions payable,
            during a period of 12 consecutive months commencing not
            earlier than 12 months before and ending not later than
            12 months after the effective date of the scheme, by the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         21

            platform operator, under any written law relating to
            platform workers’ superannuation or provident funds.

 (3) The amount payable under subsection (2)(a) must not exceed
any amount that may be prescribed by the Minister by order in the
Gazette.

 (4) The debts in each class specified in subsection (2) rank in the
order specified in that subsection but debts of the same class rank
equally between themselves, and are to be paid in full, unless the
amount standing to the credit of the debtor in the Debt Repayment
Schemes Account (within the meaning given by section 28 of the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018) is insufficient to
meet them, in which case the debts of the same class abate in equal
proportions between themselves.

 (5) Where any payment has been made to any platform worker of
the platform operator on account of earnings out of money advanced
by a person for that purpose, the person by whom the money was
advanced —

       (a) has, under the debt repayment plan, a right of priority in
            respect of the money so advanced and paid, up to the
            amount by which the sum in respect of which the platform
            worker would have been entitled to priority under this
            section has been diminished by reason of the payment; and

       (b) has the same right of priority in respect of that amount as
            the platform worker would have had if the payment had not
            been made.

Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers in
bankruptcy of platform operator

 18.—(1) This section applies in relation to the bankruptcy of a
platform operator under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018.

 (2) In the distribution of the property of the platform operator, the
following have priority over all other debts of the platform operator
other than the preferential debts specified in section 352(1)(a) to (g)
of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018, and rank

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
22  NO. 30 OF 2024

in priority after the debts specified in section 352(1)(g) but before
those specified in section 352(1)(h) of that Act:

       (a) first, all earnings payable to a platform worker, including
            any amount payable by way of reimbursement under any
            platform work agreement or any award or agreement
            regulating the conditions in which any platform worker
            provides a platform service for the platform operator;

       (b) second, all amounts due in respect of any work injury
            compensation payable to or for the benefit of a platform
            worker under the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
            accrued before, on or after the date of the bankruptcy order;

       (c) third, all amounts due in respect of contributions payable,
            during a period of 12 consecutive months commencing not
            earlier than 12 months before and ending not later than
            12 months after the date of the bankruptcy order, by the
            platform operator, under any written law relating to
            platform workers’ superannuation or provident funds.

 (3) The amount payable under subsection (2)(a) must not exceed
any amount that may be prescribed by the Minister by order in the
Gazette.

 (4) The debts in each class specified in subsection (2) rank in the
order specified in that subsection but debts of the same class rank
equally between themselves, and are to be paid in full, unless the
property of the platform operator is insufficient to meet them, in
which case the debts of the same class abate in equal proportions
between themselves.

 (5) Where any payment has been made to any platform worker of
the platform operator on account of earnings out of money advanced
by a person for that purpose, the person by whom the money was
advanced, in a bankruptcy —

       (a) has a right of priority in respect of the money so advanced
            and paid, up to the amount by which the sum in respect of
            which the platform worker would have been entitled to
            priority in the bankruptcy has been diminished by reason of
            the payment; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         23

(b) has the same right of priority in respect of that amount as
     the platform worker would have had if the payment had not
     been made.

                                    PART 3

                 PLATFORM WORK ASSOCIATIONS

                            Division 1 — General

Interpretation of this Part

 19. In this Part —

      “delegate”, in relation to a platform work association, means a
         person who is elected or appointed in accordance with the
         rules of the platform work association to attend and vote at a
         meeting of the platform work association on behalf of any
         number of members of the platform work association;

      “executive” means the body, by whatever name called, to which
         the management of the affairs of a platform work association
         or any branch of a platform work association is entrusted;

      “industrial action” means the adoption, in furtherance of a work
         dispute, of any practice, procedure or method in the provision
         of a platform service which would result in the limitation or
         restriction in the performance of tasks by platform workers in
         relation to the provision of that platform service;

      “lockout” means —

              (a) the suspension or termination by a platform operator
                   of the right or ability of any number of platform
                   workers to obtain tasks assigned or facilitated by the
                   platform operator; or

              (b) the refusal of a platform operator to assign tasks to, or
                   facilitate tasks for, any number of platform workers,

         in consequence of a work dispute, where the suspension,
         termination or refusal (as the case may be) is with a view
         to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
24  NO. 30 OF 2024

            (c) compelling those platform workers to accept terms or
                 conditions of, or affecting the provision of, any
                 platform service by those platform workers for that
                 platform operator; or

            (d) aiding another platform operator in compelling
                 platform workers of that platform operator to
                 accept terms or conditions of, or affecting the
                 provision of, any platform service by those
                 platform workers for the other platform operator;

    “officer”, in relation to a platform work association —

            (a) includes any member of the executive of the platform
                 work association and any member of any committee,
                 provision for which is made in the rules of the
                 platform work association; but

            (b) does not include an auditor;

    “platform work association” means any association or
       combination of platform workers or platform operators,
       whether temporary or permanent, whose principal object is to
       regulate relations between platform workers and platform
       operators for all or any of the following purposes:

            (a) to promote good industrial relations between
                 platform workers and platform operators;

            (b) to improve the working conditions of platform
                 workers or enhance their economic and social status;

            (c) to achieve the raising of productivity for the benefit
                 of platform workers, platform operators and the
                 economy of Singapore;

    “Register” means the register of platform work associations kept
       and maintained by the Registrar under section 21;

    “registered office” means the office of a platform work
       association which is registered under this Part as the head
       office of the platform work association;

    “registered platform work association” means a platform work
       association registered under this Part;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         25

“Registrar” means the Registrar of Platform Work Associations
   appointed under section 20(1)(a) and includes any Assistant
   Registrar of Platform Work Associations appointed under
   section 20(1)(b);

“requisite consent”, in relation to a platform work association,
   means the consent, obtained by secret ballot, of —

        (a) the majority of the members of the platform work
             association voting on their own behalf on the matter
             for which consent is sought; or

        (b) where the rules of the platform work association
             allow or require a decision on that matter to be taken
             by means of voting by delegates and the decision is
             taken using that means — two‑thirds of the total
             number of delegates representing the members;

“strike” means —

        (a) the cessation of the provision of a platform service by
             a body of platform workers providing that platform
             service acting in combination; or

        (b) a concerted refusal, or a refusal under a common
             understanding, of any number of platform workers
             who are or have been providing a platform service for
             a platform operator to continue to do so or to accept
             tasks to provide that platform service allocated or
             facilitated by a platform operator,

   where the cessation or refusal (as the case may be) is in
   furtherance of a work dispute;

“work dispute” means any dispute between platform workers
   and one or more platform operators, between platform
   workers or between platform operators, which is connected
   with —

        (a) whether a person is engaged or otherwise allowed to
             provide any platform service for a platform operator;
             or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
26  NO. 30 OF 2024

              (b) the terms under which or the conditions in which a
                   platform worker provides a platform service.

Appointment of Registrar, etc.

 20.—(1) The Minister may appoint, from public officers —

       (a) a Registrar of Platform Work Associations; and

       (b) one or more Assistant Registrars of Platform Work
            Associations.

 (2) The Registrar is responsible for the administration of this Part,
and may exercise all the powers and perform all the duties and
functions of the Registrar under this Part, subject to any general or
special directions of the Minister.

 (3) An Assistant Registrar of Platform Work Associations may
exercise all the powers and perform all the duties and functions of the
Registrar under any provision of this Part, subject to any condition or
limitation that the Registrar may specify.

Register of platform work associations

 21.—(1) The Registrar must keep and maintain a register of
platform work associations which must contain the prescribed
particulars of each registered platform work association.

 (2) The Register may be kept, in whole or in part, in an electronic
form.

 (3) The Registrar may require an officer or a member of a registered
platform work association to produce any document or provide any
information as the Registrar may require for the purposes of
maintaining the Register.

 (4) A certified copy of any entry in the Register is conclusive proof
of the facts specified in that entry as on the date of the certified copy.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         27

      Division 2 — Registration of platform work associations

Registration of platform work associations

 22.—(1) Every platform work association must apply to be
registered under this Part within a period of one month starting
from the date on which it is established.

 (2) The Registrar may, from time to time, grant an extension of the
period mentioned in subsection (1), provided that no such period is, in
any particular case, extended so as to exceed a period of 6 months in
aggregate.

 (3) For the purposes of this Part, a platform work association is
established on the first date on which any platform workers or
platform operators agree to become or create an association or a
combination for the furtherance of any one or more of the objects
specified in the definition of “platform work association” in
section 19.

 (4) For the purposes of any prosecution of a platform work
association which fails to apply for registration in accordance with
this section, the following apply:

       (a) the date of establishment of that platform work association,
            in the absence of proof of the date mentioned in
            subsection (3), is deemed to be —

               (i) the date on which any person is proved to have been
                   accepted or admitted as a member of that platform
                   work association; or

              (ii) the date on which any act is proved to have been done
                   by that platform work association in furtherance of
                   any one or more of the objects specified in the
                   definition of “platform work association” in
                   section 19;

       (b) where proof is available of both the dates mentioned in
            paragraph (a)(i) and (ii), the date of establishment of that
            platform work association is deemed to be the earlier of
            those dates.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
28  NO. 30 OF 2024

Application for registration

 23.—(1) Every application for registration as a registered platform
work association must be —

       (a) made to the Registrar in the prescribed form; and

       (b) signed by at least 7 members of the platform work
            association, at least one of whom must be an officer of
            the platform work association.

 (2) Every application must be accompanied by —

       (a) the prescribed application fee;

       (b) a copy of the rules of the platform work association; and

       (c) a statement of the prescribed particulars of —

               (i) the members of the platform work association
                   mentioned in subsection (1)(b); and

              (ii) the officers of the platform work association.

 (3) The Registrar may call for further information for the purpose of
satisfying himself or herself that any application for registration
complies with this section or that an applicant is entitled to
registration as a registered platform work association under this Part.

Registration

 24.—(1) After consideration of an application for registration as a
registered platform work association, the Registrar may —

       (a) subject to section 25, register the applicant as a registered
            platform work association in the prescribed manner if the
            Registrar is satisfied as to the matters in subsection (2); or

       (b) refuse to register the applicant as a registered platform
            work association.

 (2) The matters mentioned in subsection (1)(a) are the following:

       (a) the applicant has complied with the provisions of this Part;

       (b) the objects, rules and constitution of the applicant are not
            unlawful and do not conflict with any provision of this
            Part;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         29

       (c) the rules and constitution of the applicant are not
            oppressive or unreasonable;

       (d) the applicant is not likely to be used for unlawful purposes
            or for purposes inconsistent with its objects and rules;

       (e) where the applicant is an association or a combination of
            platform workers providing a platform service, it is not
            likely to be used against the interests of the platform
            workers providing that platform service;

        (f) where the applicant is an association or a combination of
            platform workers providing a platform service, there is no
            existing platform work association registered in respect of
            that platform service.

 (3) Despite subsection (1)(a), if any of the objects of an applicant is
unlawful, the registration of a registered platform work association is
void.

 (4) The Registrar, on registering a platform work association under
subsection (1)(a), must issue to the registered platform work
association a certificate of registration in the prescribed form.

 (5) A certificate of registration, unless proved to have been
cancelled, is conclusive evidence for all purposes that the platform
work association has been duly registered under this Part.

Power of Registrar to require alteration of name

 25.—(1) If the name under which a platform work association is
proposed to be registered —

       (a) is identical with the name by which any other platform
            work association has been registered; or

       (b) in the Registrar’s opinion, so nearly resembles the name by
            which any other platform work association has been
            registered as to be likely to deceive or mislead the public
            or the members of either platform work association,

the Registrar must require an applicant to alter the name of the
platform work association stated in the application for registration.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
30  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (2) The Registrar must not register the applicant until the alteration
has been made.

Cancellation of registration

 26.—(1) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a registered
platform work association in any of the following cases:

       (a) at the request of the registered platform work association
            upon its dissolution to be verified in the manner required
            by the Registrar;

       (b) if the Registrar is satisfied that —

               (i) the registration was obtained by fraud or mistake;

              (ii) any of the objects or rules of the registered platform
                   work association is unlawful;

             (iii) the constitution of the registered platform work
                   association or of its executive is unlawful;

             (iv) the registered platform work association is being
                   used for any unlawful purpose or any purpose
                   inconsistent with its objects and rules;

              (v) the registered platform work association has
                   rescinded any rule providing for any matter for
                   which provision is required under section 48, or has
                   wilfully and after notice from the Registrar —

                    (A) contravened any provision of this Part or
                          allowed any rule to continue in force which
                          is inconsistent with that provision; or

                     (B) allowed any rule to continue in force which is,
                          in the Registrar’s opinion, oppressive or
                          unreasonable;

             (vi) the funds of the registered platform work association
                   are expended in an unlawful manner or on an
                   unlawful object or on an object not authorised by
                   the rules of the registered platform work association;
                   or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         31

            (vii) the registered platform work association has ceased
                   to exist;

       (c) in the case of a registered platform work association of
            platform workers providing a platform service — if the
            Registrar is satisfied that the registered platform work
            association is being used, or is likely to be used, against the
            interests of platform workers providing that platform
            service;

       (d) in the case of a registered platform work association of
            platform workers providing a platform service — if the
            Registrar, having regard to the existence of any other
            registered platform work association of platform workers
            providing that platform service, is of the opinion that it is
            necessary in the interests of the platform workers
            providing that platform service to cancel the registration
            of the registered platform work association.

 (2) Except in a case falling within subsection (1)(a), the Registrar
must give a registered platform work association not less than
2 months’ written notice stating that the Registrar intends to cancel its
registration and specifying the ground on which the registration is
proposed to be cancelled.

 (3) A registered platform work association served with a notice
under subsection (2) may, within the period of 2 months starting from
the date of the notice, make written representations to the Registrar
with respect to the proposed cancellation of its registration.

 (4) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a registered
platform work association —

       (a) after consideration of any written representation made to
            the Registrar pursuant to the notice mentioned in
            subsection (2); or

       (b) after the time mentioned in subsection (3), where no
            representation is so made or any written representation
            made is subsequently withdrawn.

 (5) An order made by the Registrar under this section cancelling the
registration of a registered platform work association must —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
32  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) be dated as of the date on which the order was made;

       (b) specify briefly the grounds for the cancellation of the
            registration; and

       (c) be immediately served on the registered platform work
            association.

Power to stop payment of money held by financial institution

 27.—(1) Where the Registrar has given written notice to a
registered platform work association under section 26(2), the
Minister may, if he or she is satisfied that it is likely that the funds
of the registered platform work association may be misused, by
written notice direct any financial institution not to pay or cause to be
paid any money out of or honour any cheque drawn on the account of
the registered platform work association for a specified period not
exceeding 3 months, except with the Registrar’s written
authorisation.

 (2) Where an investigation is being conducted by a public authority
regarding the improper use or misapplication of the funds of a
registered platform work association, the Minister may by written
notice direct any financial institution not to pay or cause to be paid
any money out of or honour any cheque drawn on the account of the
registered platform work association for a specified period not
exceeding 3 months, except with the Registrar’s written
authorisation.

 (3) A financial institution which complies with the Minister’s
written notice under subsection (1) or (2) is relieved of any liability to
any other person in respect of the payment prohibited by the notice.

 (4) A financial institution which fails to comply with the Minister’s
written notice under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (5) Without affecting sections 88 and 89, where a financial
institution commits an offence under subsection (4), a person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         33

       (a) who is —

               (i) an accountant, a sub‑accountant or any other similar
                   officer of the financial institution; or

              (ii) a person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the financial
                   institution; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the financial institution would be or is
                   being committed, and failed to take all reasonable
                   steps to prevent or stop the commission of that
                   offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the financial institution, and
shall be liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (6) A person mentioned in subsection (5) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the financial institution if it were charged with
an offence under subsection (4) and, in doing so, the person bears the
same burden of proof that the financial institution would bear.

 (7) In this section —

      “financial institution” means a bank, a finance company or any
         co‑operative society carrying on the business of managing
         and investing funds;

      “public authority” means the Registrar, an authorised officer, the
         Commissioner of Police, the Commissioner of Inland
         Revenue or the Director of the Corrupt Practices
         Investigation Bureau.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
34  NO. 30 OF 2024

Consequences of failure to register or cancellation of
registration

 28.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) a platform work association does not apply for registration
            within the time specified in section 22;

       (b) an application for registration as a platform work
            association is refused under section 24(1)(b); or

       (c) the registration of a registered platform work association is
            cancelled under section 26.

 (2) The platform work association is dissolved.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the platform work association is
deemed to be an unlawful association and ceases to enjoy any of the
rights, immunities or privileges of a registered platform work
association.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect any liabilities incurred or to be
incurred by the platform work association which may be enforced
against the platform work association and its assets.

 (5) The platform work association, and its officers, members or
agents on behalf of the platform work association, must not —

       (a) take part in any work dispute or promote, organise or
            finance any strike or lockout; or

       (b) provide pay or other benefits for the members of the
            platform work association during a strike or lockout.

 (6) A person must not —

       (a) take any part in the management or organisation of the
            platform work association; or

       (b) act or purport to act on behalf of the platform work
            association or as an officer of the platform work
            association,

except for the purpose of —

       (c) defending proceedings against the platform work
            association; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         35

       (d) dissolving the platform work association and disposing of
            its funds in accordance with the rules of the platform work
            association.

Consequences upon dissolution of platform work association

 29.—(1) Upon the dissolution of a platform work association under
section 28(2) —

       (a) the property of the platform work association immediately
            vests in the Official Receiver; and

       (b) the Official Receiver must proceed to wind up the affairs of
            the platform work association and, after satisfying and
            providing for all debts and liabilities of the platform work
            association and the costs of winding up, must pay the
            surplus assets (if any) of the platform work association —

               (i) where the Minister so directs — into the Workers’
                   Fund; or

              (ii) in the absence of a direction from the Minister — in
                   accordance with the rules of the platform work
                   association.

 (2) Where —

       (a) no direction is given by the Minister under
            subsection (1)(b)(i); and

       (b) the surplus assets or part of the surplus assets cannot be
            distributed in accordance with the rules of the platform
            work association because the members cannot be found or
            a meeting of the members is not possible or for any other
            good and sufficient reason,

the surplus assets or part of the surplus assets must be paid into the
Workers’ Fund.

 (3) For the purpose of winding up the affairs of the platform work
association —

       (a) the Official Receiver has all the powers vested in the
            Official Receiver under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018 for the purpose of discovery of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
36  NO. 30 OF 2024

            property of a debtor, the realisation of such property and
            the winding up of a company; and

       (b) the provisions of that Act apply, with the necessary
            modifications, to the winding up of the affairs of the
            platform work association under this Part.

 (4) In this section, “Workers’ Fund” has the meaning given by
section 2 of the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019.

 Division 3 — Rights and liabilities of platform work associations

Disabilities of unregistered platform work association

 30. A platform work association does not enjoy any of the rights,
immunities or privileges of a registered platform work association
until it is registered.

Immunity from civil suit in certain cases

 31. No suit or other legal proceedings shall be maintainable in any
civil court against any registered platform work association, or any
officer or member of a registered platform work association, in
respect of any act done in contemplation or in furtherance of a work
dispute to which a member of the platform work association is a party
on the ground only that the act —

       (a) induces some other person to break a platform work
            agreement; or

       (b) is in interference with —

               (i) the trade, business or employment of, or the
                   provision of a platform service by, some other
                   person; or

              (ii) the right of some other person to dispose of that
                   person’s capital or labour as he or she wills.

Liability in tort

 32.—(1) A suit against a registered platform work association, or
any officer or member of a registered platform work association on
behalf of himself or herself and all other members of a platform work

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         37

association, in respect of any tortious act alleged to have been
committed by or on behalf of the platform work association is not to
be entertained by any court.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the liability of a platform work
association, or any officer of a platform work association, to be sued
in any court touching or concerning the property or rights of a
platform work association except in respect of any tortious act
committed by or on behalf of the platform work association in
contemplation or in furtherance of a work dispute.

Liability in contract

 33.—(1) Every registered platform work association is liable on
any contract entered into by it or by an agent acting on its behalf.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a platform work association is not liable
on any contract which is void or unenforceable at law.

Objects in restraint of trade not unlawful in case of registered
platform work association

 34. The objects of a registered platform work association are not, by
reason only that they are in restraint of trade, deemed to be unlawful
so as to render any member of that platform work association liable to
criminal prosecution for conspiracy or otherwise, or to render void or
voidable any agreement or trust.

Proceedings by and against platform work association

 35.—(1) A registered platform work association may sue and be
sued and be prosecuted under its registered name.

 (2) An unregistered platform work association may be sued and
prosecuted under the name by which it has been operating or is
generally known.

 (3) A platform work association whose registration has been
cancelled may be sued and prosecuted under the name by which it
was registered.

 (4) An enforcement order for any money recovered from a platform
work association in civil proceedings may issue against any property

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
38  NO. 30 OF 2024

belonging to or held in trust for the platform work association other
than the benevolent fund of a registered platform work association.

 (5) Any fine ordered to be paid by a platform work association may
be recovered by distress and sale of any movable property belonging
to or held in trust for the platform work association in accordance
with the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (6) In any civil or criminal proceedings in which a registered
platform work association is a party, the platform work association
may appear in those proceedings by any one of its officers or by an
advocate and solicitor.

Strike or industrial action

 36.—(1) A registered platform work association must not
commence, promote, organise or finance any strike or any form of
industrial action affecting the whole or any section of its members
without obtaining the consent, by secret ballot, of the majority of the
members so affected.

 (2) Any registered platform work association which, and every
member of its executive who, contravenes subsection (1) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $3,000.

 (3) The members of a platform work association who commence,
promote, organise, participate or otherwise act in furtherance of any
strike or any form of industrial action —

       (a) where the consent of the majority of the members so
            affected has not been obtained by secret ballot; or

       (b) taken in contravention of the rules or by‑laws of the
            platform work association,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

 (4) Any person who instigates or incites others to take part in or
otherwise acts in furtherance of a strike or any form of industrial
action —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         39

       (a) where the consent of the majority of the members of a
            platform work association so affected has not been
            obtained by secret ballot; or

       (b) taken in contravention of the rules or by‑laws of the
            platform work association to which the majority of the
            persons taking part in the strike or industrial action
            belongs,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $3,000.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), the onus
of proving that the consent of the majority of the members of the
registered platform work association so affected has been obtained by
secret ballot is on the registered platform work association or the
member of its executive, as the case may be.

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (3) or (4),
the onus of proving that —

       (a) the consent of the majority of the members of the platform
            work association so affected has been obtained by secret
            ballot; or

       (b) the strike or industrial action was not taken in
            contravention of the rules or by‑laws of the platform
            work association concerned,

is on the member of the platform work association or the accused
person, as the case may be.

                         Division 4 — Constitution

Membership of minors

 37.—(1) A person above 18 years of age may be a member of a
registered platform work association.

 (2) A member of a registered platform work association who is
above 18 years of age, but under 21 years of age, must not be a
member of the executive or a trustee of the platform work association
unless he or she has obtained the Minister’s written approval.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
40  NO. 30 OF 2024

Public officers, etc., not to be members of platform work
association

 38.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person who is a public officer,
or an officer or employee of any public authority, must not join or be a
member of any platform work association or be accepted as a member
by any platform work association.

 (2) The President may, by notification in the Gazette, exempt any
class or description of public officer, or officer or employee of any
public authority, from subsection (1), subject to any conditions
specified in the notification.

 (3) In this section, “public authority” means a body established or
constituted by or under a public Act to perform or discharge a public
function.

Officers of platform work association

 39.—(1) A person must not act as an officer of a platform work
association or any branch of a platform work association, and is
disqualified for election as such officer, if the person —

       (a) is an undischarged bankrupt; or

       (b) has been convicted by any court of criminal breach of trust,
            extortion or criminal intimidation, or of any offence which,
            in the Minister’s opinion, renders the person unfit to be an
            officer of a platform work association.

 (2) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply where the Minister is satisfied
that the person has reformed and has become fit to be an officer of a
platform work association.

 (3) A person who is not a citizen of Singapore must not act as an
officer of a platform work association or any branch of a platform
work association unless the prior written approval of the Minister has
been obtained.

 (4) Not less than two-thirds of the total number of the officers of
every registered platform work association must be persons actually
providing a platform service with which the registered platform work
association is connected.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         41

Authority of officers, etc., to bind platform work association
without ratification

 40.—(1) Despite any provision in any rules or resolution of any
platform work association —

       (a) the officers of a platform work association and any other
            persons duly appointed by the platform work association to
            represent its members in negotiations with a view to a
            collective agreement have the authority to bargain
            collectively for and to bind all the members of the
            platform work association by a collective agreement
            without the need for ratification by the members; and

       (b) the decisions of those officers or persons on any matter in
            such negotiations is the decision of all members of the
            platform work association.

 (2) Any provision in any rules or resolution of any platform work
association that is inconsistent with subsection (1) is void to the
extent of that inconsistency.

Employees of platform work association

 41.—(1) A registered platform work association may, subject to
subsections (2) and (4) and the rules of the platform work association,
employ and pay such persons as may be necessary for the purposes of
the platform work association.

 (2) A person must not be employed by a registered platform work
association under subsection (1) if —

       (a) the person has been convicted by a court of a criminal
            offence and has not received a free pardon in respect of that
            offence; and

       (b) in the Minister’s opinion, the conviction renders the person
            unfit to be employed by a platform work association.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply where the Minister is satisfied
that the person so convicted has reformed and has become fit to be
employed by a platform work association.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
42  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (4) A person who is not a citizen of Singapore must not be
employed by a registered platform work association under
subsection (1) unless the prior written approval of the Minister has
been obtained.

Powers of Minister in relation to sections 39 and 41

 42. Without limiting section 94, the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette —

       (a) declare that section 39 or 41 does not apply to any
            registered platform work association or class of registered
            platform work associations specified in the order; or

       (b) exempt, subject to any conditions that the Minister
            considers reasonably necessary, from all or any provision
            of section 39 or 41, any officer or employee or any
            proportion or class of officers or employees of any
            registered platform work association or class of
            registered platform work associations as may be
            specified in the order.

Change of name

 43. A registered platform work association must not change its
name except with the requisite consent of its members.

Amalgamation

 44.—(1) Any 2 or more registered platform work associations may
become amalgamated as one platform work association if each of the
platform work associations has the requisite consent of its members
to the amalgamation.

 (2) The amalgamation may be undertaken with or without
dissolution or division of the funds of the platform work
associations or either or any of them.

Notice of change of name or amalgamation

 45.—(1) Written notice must be given to the Registrar of every
change of name and every amalgamation, signed —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         43

       (a) in the case of a change of name, by the secretary and
            7 members of the registered platform work association
            changing its name; or

       (b) in the case of an amalgamation, by the secretary and
            7 members of every registered platform work association
            which is a party to the amalgamation.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), if the Registrar is satisfied that the
provisions of this Part in respect of change of name have been
complied with, the Registrar must register the change of name in the
prescribed manner, and the change of name has effect from the date of
the registration.

 (3) The Registrar must refuse to register the change of name if the
proposed name —

       (a) is identical with the name by which any other existing
            platform work association has been registered; or

       (b) in the Registrar’s opinion, so nearly resembles any such
            name as to be likely to deceive or mislead the public or the
            members of either platform work association.

 (4) If the Registrar is satisfied that —

       (a) the provisions of this Part in respect of amalgamation have
            been complied with; and

       (b) the platform work association formed by amalgamation is
            entitled to registration under section 24,

the Registrar must register the platform work association in the
prescribed manner, and the amalgamation has effect from the date of
the registration.

Effect of change of name or amalgamation

 46.—(1) A change in the name of a registered platform work
association does not affect any rights or obligations of the platform
work association or render defective any legal proceeding by or
against the platform work association, and any legal proceeding
which might have been continued or commenced by or against it

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
44  NO. 30 OF 2024

under its former name may be continued or commenced by or against
it under its new name.

 (2) An amalgamation of 2 or more registered platform work
associations does not prejudice any right of any such platform work
association or any right of a creditor of any such platform work
association.

Registered office

 47.—(1) Every registered platform work association must have a
registered office to which all communications and notices may be
addressed.

 (2) Every platform work association must notify the Registrar of
the location of its registered office and any change to that location,
and the platform work association is deemed not to have complied
with the provisions of this Part until such notice has been given.

 (3) Every platform work association which operates —

       (a) without having a registered office, or without giving notice
            of the location of its registered office to the Registrar; or

       (b) at any place to which its registered office may have been
            removed, without having given notice of the change of
            location to the Registrar,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during which it is so
in operation.

 (4) Every officer of any platform work association mentioned in
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day
during which the platform work association is in operation as
described in subsection (3)(a) or (b).

Rules of registered platform work association

 48.—(1) The rules of every registered platform work association
must provide for all matters specified in the Third Schedule and must
not be so altered or amended as to cease to contain provision in
respect of all such matters.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         45

 (2) A copy of the rules for the time being in force of any registered
platform work association —

       (a) must be prominently exhibited at the registered office of
            the registered platform work association; and

       (b) must be provided by the secretary of the registered
            platform work association to any person on demand on
            payment of the prescribed sum.

 (3) Where a new rule of a registered platform work association is
made or an alteration is made in the rules of a registered platform
work association —

       (a) a copy of the new rule or alteration must be sent to the
            Registrar within 7 days after the making of that rule or
            alteration; and

       (b) the Registrar must, subject to subsection (4), register that
            rule or alteration on payment of the prescribed fee.

 (4) The Registrar may refuse to register any new rule or alteration
of any rule if the Registrar is of the opinion that the new rule or altered
rule is unlawful or is oppressive or unreasonable.

 (5) Every new rule or alteration of any rule takes effect from the
date of registration by the Registrar unless some later date is specified
in the rules of the registered platform work association.

Secret ballot

 49.—(1) The rules of a registered platform work association
relating to the taking of decisions by secret ballot must ensure that —

       (a) every member or delegate (as the case may be) has an equal
            right, and a reasonable opportunity to record his or her vote
            freely;

       (b) the results of the voting are correctly ascertained and
            declared; and

       (c) the secrecy of the ballot is properly secured.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
46  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (2) The Registrar may, for the purpose of satisfying himself or
herself that a secret ballot taken by a registered platform work
association has been properly conducted —

       (a) order a person to deliver to the Registrar any ballot papers,
            envelopes, lists or other documents which have been used
            in connection with or are relevant to the secret ballot and
            which are in the possession or under the control of that
            person;

       (b) take possession of any such ballot papers, envelopes, lists
            or other documents; and

       (c) inspect those ballot papers, envelopes, lists or other
            documents and retain them for such period as is
            necessary for that purpose.

 (3) Subject to subsection (2) or as may be provided in the rules of
the platform work association, no person is allowed to inspect or copy
any paper or document relating to a secret ballot.

 (4) A registered platform work association and every officer of a
registered platform work association who is able to do so must,
despite anything in the rules of the platform work association, take
such steps as are necessary to ensure that all ballot papers, envelopes,
lists and other documents used in connection with or relevant to a
secret ballot are kept at the registered office of the platform work
association for a period of 6 months after the completion of the secret
ballot.

 (5) The secretary of the platform work association must send the
results of a secret ballot taken to decide any of the matters specified in
paragraph 8 of the Third Schedule to the Registrar within 7 days after
the holding of the secret ballot in the form directed by the Registrar.

Notification of change of officers, etc.

 50.—(1) A registered platform work association must, prominently
and in a place that it may be easily read, exhibit —

       (a) at its registered office a notice showing the names and titles
            of the officers for the time being of the platform work
            association; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         47

       (b) at the office of each branch a notice showing the names and
            titles of the officers for the time being of the branch.

 (2) Where —

       (a) a person becomes or ceases to be an officer of a registered
            platform work association or a branch of a platform work
            association; or

       (b) the title of any officer is changed,

the platform work association must notify the Registrar of the
appointment or election of the officer, the cessation of the person to
be an officer or the change in title (as the case may be) in the
prescribed form, together with the prescribed fee, within 7 days after
the appointment or election, cessation or change.

 (3) The Registrar must, on being satisfied that the appointment or
election of the officer, the cessation of the person to be an officer or
the change in title (as the case may be) is not contrary to the rules of
the platform work association or the provisions of this Part, alter the
Register accordingly.

Notification of change of employees

 51. When a person becomes or ceases to be an employee of a
registered platform work association or a branch of a registered
platform work association, the platform work association must notify
the Registrar within 7 days after the appointment or cessation in the
form directed by the Registrar.

Notice of dissolution

 52.—(1) When a registered platform work association is dissolved,
notice of the dissolution signed by the secretary and 7 members of the
platform work association must be sent to the Registrar within
14 days after the dissolution.

 (2) The Registrar must, if satisfied that the dissolution has been
effected in accordance with the rules of the platform work
association, register the dissolution, and the dissolution has effect
from the date of the registration.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
48  NO. 30 OF 2024

Trustees

 53.—(1) The rules of a registered platform work association must
provide for the appointment or election of trustees and for the filling
of vacancies in the office of trustees so that, as far as may be, there are
always at least 3 trustees of the platform work association.

 (2) A person who is an undischarged bankrupt —

       (a) must not be appointed or elected as a trustee of a platform
            work association; or

       (b) if so appointed or elected, must not remain as a trustee of a
            platform work association.

 (3) Except with the Minister’s approval, a person who has been
convicted of an offence involving fraud or dishonesty or any other
offence which, in the Minister’s opinion, renders the person unfit to
be a trustee of a platform work association —

       (a) must not be appointed or elected as a trustee of a platform
            work association; or

       (b) if so appointed or elected, must not remain as a trustee of a
            platform work association.

 (4) A person who —

       (a) is holding the office of president, chairperson, treasurer,
            secretary or similar office in a platform work association;
            or

       (b) is not a citizen of Singapore,

must not be appointed or elected as a trustee of the platform work
association without the prior written approval of the Minister.

 (5) When a person is appointed or elected as, or ceases to be, a
trustee of a registered platform work association or branch of a
registered platform work association, the platform work association
must notify the Registrar within 7 days after the appointment or
election or cessation in the form required by the Registrar.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         49

                           Division 5 — Property

All property vested in trustees

 54. All property, movable or immovable, of a registered platform
work association must be vested in its trustees for the use and benefit
of the platform work association and its members, and are under the
control of the trustees.

Devolution of property

 55. Upon any change in the office of any trustee, the Supreme Court
may, upon an originating application without notice made to it in that
behalf, make an order vesting the property of a registered platform
work association in the trustees for the time being of the platform
work association for the same estate and interest as the former trustee
had in that property, and subject to the same trusts, without any
transfer, conveyance or assignment.

Purchase or lease of land or buildings

 56.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and to any provision in its rules,
a registered platform work association may —

       (a) purchase or take a lease of, for the purposes of the platform
            work association and in the names of its trustees, any land
            or building; and

       (b) subject to any written law or other law which may be
            applicable, sell, exchange, charge or lease any land or
            building purchased or leased by it.

 (2) A registered platform work association must not purchase or
take a lease of any land or building situated outside Singapore without
having first obtained the requisite consent of its members.

                    Division 6 — Funds and accounts

Application of funds

 57.—(1) The funds of a registered platform work association may,
subject to the rules of the platform work association and the
provisions of this Act, be expended only for the following objects:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
50  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) the payment of salaries, allowances and expenses to
            officers of the platform work association;

       (b) the payment of expenses for the administration of the
            platform work association, including audit of the accounts
            of the funds of the platform work association;

       (c) the prosecution or defence of any legal proceeding to
            which the platform work association or any member of the
            platform work association is a party, when the prosecution
            or defence is undertaken for the purpose of securing or
            protecting any rights of the platform work association as
            such or any rights arising out of the relations of any
            member with a platform operator for whom the member
            provides a platform service or with a platform worker who
            provides a platform service for the member, as the case
            may be;

       (d) the conduct of work disputes on behalf of the platform
            work association or any member of the platform work
            association;

       (e) the compensation of members for loss arising out of work
            disputes;

        (f) allowances to members or their dependants on account of
            death, old age, sickness or accidents of the members or the
            inability of the members to provide a platform service with
            which the platform work association is concerned;

       (g) any other object which the Minister may, by notification in
            the Gazette, declare to be an object for which such funds
            may be expended.

 (2) Any moneys received for a specific purpose by a platform work
association from its members, which the members are liable to pay in
accordance with its rules, must not be used or applied for any other
purpose without the requisite consent of the members of the platform
work association.

 (3) The secretary of the platform work association must, within
7 days from the date the requisite consent mentioned in subsection (2)
is obtained, notify the Registrar of the consent and provide to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         51

Registrar any information in respect of the consent as the Registrar
may require.

Prohibition of payment of fines or penalties

 58. The funds of a registered platform work association must not be
applied either directly or indirectly in payment of the whole or part of
any fine or penalty imposed upon any person by sentence or order of a
court of justice.

Use of funds for political purposes and investment of those
funds

 59.—(1) The funds of a registered platform work association must
not be applied either directly or indirectly in payment of contributions
to a political party or for a political purpose.

 (2) The funds of a registered platform work association must,
subject to the rules of the platform work association and the
provisions of this Act, be invested only in —

       (a) investments authorised by law for the investment of trust
            money;

       (b) interest‑earning deposits in banks or finance companies;

       (c) shares of co‑operative societies established by any
            registered platform work association or any trade union
            registered under the Trade Unions Act 1940; or

       (d) any undertaking, enterprise or scheme, the promoter or
            proprietor of which is the Singapore Labour Foundation or
            a company formed by or related to the Singapore Labour
            Foundation, as the Minister may approve for the purposes
            of this paragraph.

 (3) In this section, “Singapore Labour Foundation” means the
Singapore Labour Foundation established under section 3 of the
Singapore Labour Foundation Act 1977.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, a company is deemed to be
related to the Singapore Labour Foundation if it is related to the
Singapore Labour Foundation within the meaning of section 6 of the
Companies Act 1967.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
52  NO. 30 OF 2024

Injunction to restrain misuse of funds

 60. An injunction restraining any unauthorised or unlawful
expenditure of the funds of a registered platform work association
may be granted on the application of any 5 or more persons having
sufficient interest in the relief sought, the Registrar or the
Attorney‑General.

Treasurer to render accounts

 61.—(1) Every treasurer of a registered platform work association
and every other officer of a registered platform work association who
is responsible for the accounts of the platform work association or the
collection, disbursement, custody or control of the funds or moneys
of the platform work association, must —

       (a) upon resigning or vacating his or her office;

       (b) at least once in every year at the time specified by the rules
            of the platform work association; and

       (c) at any other time at which he or she may be required to do
            so by a resolution of the members of the platform work
            association or by the rules of the platform work
            association,

render to the platform work association and its members a just and
true account of —

       (d) all moneys received and paid by him or her during the
            period which has elapsed since the date of his or her
            assuming office, or if he or she has previously rendered an
            account, since the last date upon which he or she rendered
            such account;

       (e) the balance remaining in his or her hands, at the time of
            rendering such account; and

        (f) all bonds, securities or other property of the platform work
            association entrusted to his or her custody or under his or
            her control.

 (2) The form of account may be prescribed by regulations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         53

 (3) The account must be verified by statutory declaration, and the
platform work association must cause the account to be audited by a
fit and proper person approved by the Registrar.

 (4) A platform work association must not cause the accounts to be
audited under subsection (3) by the same person for a continuous
period of more than 5 years without the prior written approval of the
Minister.

 (5) After the account has been audited, the treasurer or other officer
mentioned in subsection (1) must immediately hand over to the
trustees of the platform work association, if required by them to do
so —

       (a) such balance as appears to be due from him or her; and

       (b) all bonds, securities, effects, books, papers and property of
            the platform work association in his or her hands or
            custody, or otherwise under his or her control.

 (6) The Registrar may by written notice direct the attendance before
the Registrar, at the place and time set out in the notice, of any person
appointed to audit the accounts of a platform work association for any
purpose related to the audit.

 (7) The Registrar may, if he or she thinks it necessary, by written
notice direct any platform work association to —

       (a) cause the accounts to be audited by any person other than
            the person who first audited the accounts; or

       (b) cause the accounts to be further audited in any manner
            required by the Registrar.

 (8) All expenses incurred by a platform work association in
complying with the direction of the Registrar must be borne by the
platform work association.

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with the Registrar’s direction
under subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
54  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (10) Any platform work association which fails to comply with the
Registrar’s direction under subsection (7) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

Production of documents, etc., for examination

 62.—(1) Without affecting any other provision of this Act, for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Part, the Registrar may
by written notice direct any officer or employee of a platform work
association to produce for the Registrar’s examination any books,
accounts, records and documents and to answer any questions
relating to the books, accounts, records or documents as may be
necessary.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) wilfully refuses or without lawful excuse fails to comply
            with the Registrar’s direction under subsection (1); or

       (b) wilfully withholds any information, or refuses to answer or
            wilfully gives a false answer to any question put to the
            person by the Registrar,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Annual returns

 63.—(1) The secretary of every registered platform work
association must provide annually to the Registrar on or before the
prescribed date in each year a general statement, audited in the
prescribed manner, of all receipts and expenditure during the period
of 12 months ending on the last day of March last preceding that
prescribed date, and of the assets and liabilities of the platform work
association as at that day.

 (2) The general statement mentioned in subsection (1) must be
accompanied by a copy of the auditor’s report and must be prepared
in such form and comprise such particulars as may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         55

 (3) The secretary of each registered platform work association must
provide to the Registrar, together with the general statement
mentioned in subsection (1) —

       (a) a copy of —

               (i) all alterations or amendments of rules, and all new
                   rules, of the platform work association; and

              (ii) a list of all changes of officers,

       (a) made by the platform work association during the period of
            12 months preceding the last day of March; and

       (b) a copy of the rules of the platform work association in force
            on that day.

 (4) The Registrar may, on application to him or her by a registered
platform work association, by written notice, substitute —

       (a) the day on which the financial year of the platform work
            association ends for the last day of March mentioned in
            subsections (1) and (3); and

       (b) if necessary, some other date for the date prescribed for the
            purposes of subsection (1).

 (5) All the provisions of this section apply accordingly in the case
of the registered platform work association mentioned in
subsection (4) as though the day and the date so substituted were
respectively the last day of March mentioned in subsections (1) and
(3) and the prescribed date mentioned in subsection (1).

 (6) Every member of a registered platform work association is
entitled to receive free of charge a copy of the general statement
mentioned in subsection (1) and the secretary of each registered
platform work association must deliver a copy of that statement to
every member of his or her platform work association who applies to
him or her for a copy of that statement.

 (7) Any secretary of a registered platform work association who
fails to comply with any requirement of this section shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
56  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (8) Every person who wilfully makes or orders or causes or
procures to be made any false entry in or omission from any of the
following documents provided to the Registrar shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both:

       (a) the general statement mentioned in subsection (1);

       (b) the copy of the auditor’s report mentioned in
            subsection (2);

       (c) any copy mentioned in subsection (3)(a) or (b).

Inspection of accounts and documents

 64. The account books of a registered platform work association
and a list of its members must be open to inspection by any officer or
member of the platform work association at the times provided for in
the rules of the platform work association, and by the Registrar at any
reasonable time.

           Division 7 — Offences and penalties of this Part

Penalty for misuse of money or property of registered platform
work association

 65.—(1) Where, on complaint made by a member of a registered
platform work association, it is shown to the satisfaction of a District
Court or Magistrate’s Court that any officer or member of the
registered platform work association —

       (a) has in his or her possession or control any property of the
            registered platform work association except in accordance
            with the rules of the registered platform work association;
            or

       (b) has unlawfully expended or withheld any money of the
            registered platform work association,

the Court, if it considers the justice of the case so requires, is to order
that officer or member to deliver that property or pay the money so

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         57

unlawfully expended or withheld (as the case may be) to the trustees
of the registered platform work association.

 (2) A complaint made under subsection (1) in respect of any
property or money of a registered platform work association is not to
be entertained unless the District Court or Magistrate’s Court is
satisfied that the complainant is, on the date of that complaint, a
member of the registered platform work association.

 (3) Any person bound by an order made under subsection (1) who
fails to comply with the terms of and the directions given in that order
within a time to be specified in that order shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (4) An order made under subsection (1) does not affect or prevent a
prosecution of, or civil proceedings against, any such officer or
member.

Supplying false information regarding platform work
associations

 66. Any person who, with intent to deceive —

       (a) gives to any member of a registered platform work
            association, or any person intending or applying to
            become a member of that platform work association, any
            document purporting to be a copy of the rules of the
            platform work association or any alterations to those rules
            which the person knows, or has reason to believe, is not a
            correct copy of the rules or alterations that are for the time
            being in force; or

       (b) gives a copy of any rules of an unregistered platform work
            association to any person on the pretence that those rules
            are the rules of a registered platform work association,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
58  NO. 30 OF 2024

Failure to submit returns

 67. If default is made on the part of any registered platform work
association in doing any act, giving any notice or sending any
statement, return or other document as required by this Part —

       (a) every officer or other person bound by the rules of the
            platform work association or under the provisions of this
            Part to do that act, give that notice or send that statement,
            return or document; or

       (b) if there is no such officer or person, every member of the
            executive of that registered platform work association,

shall severally be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

General penalty

 68.—(1) Every person who, and every platform work association
which, contravenes any provision of this Part for which no penalty is
expressly provided shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (2) Upon conviction of an unregistered platform work association
under subsection (1), every person proved to have been a member of
the executive of that platform work association shall be deemed
severally to be guilty of the offence for which the platform work
association was so convicted.

 (3) The District Court or Magistrate’s Court shall, after necessary
inquiry, declare in its finding and order the name of each person to be
deemed to be guilty under subsection (2) and shall pass sentence upon
the person according to law.

Consent of Public Prosecutor

 69. A prosecution under this Part must not be instituted except by or
with the consent of the Public Prosecutor.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         59

                        Division 8 — Miscellaneous
This Part not to affect certain agreements

 70. This Part does not affect any of the following:
       (a) any agreement between partners as to their own business;
       (b) any agreement between an employer and those employed
            by that person as to such employment;
       (c) any platform work agreement as to the provision of a
            platform service by a platform worker;
       (d) any agreement in consideration of the sale of the goodwill
            of a business or of instruction in any profession, trade or
            handicraft.

Societies Act 1966 not applicable to platform work associations
 71. The Societies Act 1966 does not apply to a platform work

association.

Service of legal process
 72. Subject to the requirements of any other written law, every

originating claim or other legal process may be served on a platform
work association by —

       (a) serving it on the president, secretary, treasurer or other
            officer of the platform work association; or

       (b) leaving it at, or sending it by registered post to, the
            registered office of the platform work association.

Notification in Gazette
 73. The Registrar must notify in the Gazette the fact that —
       (a) any platform work association has been registered;
       (b) the registration of any platform work association has been
            cancelled;
       (c) any change of name or amalgamation affecting any
            registered platform work association has been registered;
            and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
60  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (d) any registered platform work association has been
            dissolved.

Appeal to Minister

 74.—(1) A person who is aggrieved by —

       (a) the Registrar’s refusal to register a platform work
            association under section 24(1)(b);

       (b) the Registrar’s order to cancel the registration of a
            registered platform work association under section 26;

       (c) the Registrar’s refusal to register a change of the name of a
            registered platform work association under section 45(3);

       (d) the Registrar’s refusal to register the platform work
            association formed by the amalgamation of any 2 or
            more registered platform work associations under
            section 45(4); or

       (e) the Registrar’s refusal to register a new rule or any
            alteration of any rule under section 48(4),

may appeal to the Minister.

 (2) An appeal under this section must —

       (a) be in writing;

       (b) specify the grounds on which it is made; and

       (c) be made within the prescribed period starting from the date
            of the Registrar’s refusal or order.

 (3) After consideration of an appeal, the Minister may —

       (a) confirm the Registrar’s refusal or order, as the case may be;

       (b) order the registration of any platform work association;

       (c) order the registration of any new rule or alteration of any
            rule;

       (d) reverse the Registrar’s order; or

       (e) make any order or give any direction that the Minister
            considers just or necessary.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         61

 (4) The Minister’s decision is final.

Regulations for this Part

 75.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of
carrying out or giving effect to this Part.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) the registers and other records to be kept for the purposes
            of this Part;

       (b) the form and manner in which platform work associations
            and the rules of registered platform work associations must
            be registered and the fees payable on registration;

       (c) the manner in which, and the qualifications of the persons
            by whom, the accounts of registered platform work
            associations or any class of registered platform work
            associations must be audited;

       (d) the conditions subject to which the Register or any
            document kept by the Registrar may be inspected and an
            extract from or a copy of an entry in the Register or
            document may be given, and the fees chargeable for the
            inspection, extract or copy;

       (e) the form and manner of any applications, forms, notices,
            requests or returns that must be filed with the Registrar
            under this Part or any regulations made for the purposes of
            this Part;

        (f) the due disposal and safe custody of the funds and moneys
            of a platform work association;

       (g) the creation, administration, protection, control and
            disposal of the benevolent funds of registered platform
            work associations and all matters connected with or
            incidental to such benevolent funds.

 (3) The Minister may by regulations declare that any regulations
made in respect of the matter mentioned in subsection (2)(g) apply to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
62  NO. 30 OF 2024

a specified registered platform work association or a specified class
of registered platform work associations only.

                                    PART 4

                    ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES

Civil contraventions

 76. The following contraventions are declared to be civil
contraventions for the purposes of this Act:

       (a) a failure of a person that satisfies the criteria to be a
            platform operator under section 4 to notify the
            Commissioner of that fact in accordance with section 8(1);

       (b) a failure of a person that ceases to be a platform operator
            within the meaning in section 4 to notify the Commissioner
            of that fact in accordance with section 9;

       (c) a failure by a platform operator to comply with
            section 13(1) or 14(1).

Payment of administrative penalty

 77.—(1) An authorised officer may issue a contravention notice —

       (a) to a person mentioned in section 76(a) requiring that
            person to pay an administrative penalty of the prescribed
            amount for an alleged failure by the person to notify the
            Commissioner in accordance with section 8(1);

       (b) to a person mentioned in section 76(b) requiring that
            person to pay an administrative penalty of the prescribed
            amount for an alleged failure by the person to notify the
            Commissioner in accordance with section 9; or

       (c) to a platform operator requiring the platform operator to
            pay an administrative penalty of the prescribed amount for
            each occasion of an alleged failure by the platform
            operator —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         63

               (i) to comply with section 13(1) with respect to any
                   one platform worker or former platform worker
                   (within the meaning given by section 13(1)(b)); or

              (ii) to comply with section 14(1) with respect to any
                   one platform worker.

 (2) A contravention notice must —

       (a) specify the amount of administrative penalty to be paid;

       (b) specify the date by which the administrative penalty must
            be paid; and

       (c) set out the brief details of the alleged contravention and
            any other particulars that may be prescribed.

 (3) Different amounts of administrative penalty may be prescribed
for different civil contraventions or different circumstances in which
a civil contravention takes place.

 (4) Any person or platform operator that is issued a contravention
notice under subsection (1) must pay the administrative penalty
specified in the contravention notice to the authorised officer within
the time, in such mode of payment and at such place as is specified in
that notice.

Appeal, etc., in relation to contravention notice

 78.—(1) Any person or platform operator that is issued a
contravention notice by an authorised officer under section 77(1)
(called in this section the initial authorised officer) may —

       (a) within the prescribed period and in accordance with the
            prescribed procedure, request for an internal
            reconsideration of the contravention notice by another
            authorised officer (called in this section the reviewing
            authorised officer); or

       (b) within the prescribed period (and despite not requesting for
            an internal reconsideration), appeal to the General Division
            of the High Court which may hear and determine the
            matter afresh.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
64  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (2) A reviewing authorised officer reconsidering a contravention
notice issued to a person or platform operator must not be subordinate
to the initial authorised officer who issued the contravention notice.

 (3) A reviewing authorised officer may, after reconsidering the
issue of a contravention notice by the initial authorised officer —

       (a) confirm the contravention notice issued by the initial
            authorised officer; or

       (b) cancel the contravention notice.

 (4) Any person or platform operator that is aggrieved by the
reviewing authorised officer’s decision under subsection (3)(a) may,
within the prescribed period, appeal to the General Division of the
High Court which may hear and determine the matter afresh.

 (5) The procedure governing any such appeal to the General
Division of the High Court is as provided in the Rules of Court.

 (6) The enforcement of the payment of any administrative penalty
required by a contravention notice to be paid under section 77 is
stayed —

       (a) if a request for internal reconsideration under
            subsection (1)(a) is made, until after the reconsideration
            is completed; or

       (b) if an appeal under subsection (1)(b) or (4) is filed, until
            after the appeal is completed.

 (7) In relation to a contravention notice issued to a person or
platform operator under section 77(1), where —

       (a) an appeal to the General Division of the High Court has
            been filed under subsection (1)(b) or (4) and the appeal is
            dismissed;

       (b) the prescribed period for requesting an internal
            reconsideration under subsection (1)(a) has lapsed
            without such request made, and the prescribed period for
            filing an appeal to the General Division of the High Court
            under subsection (1)(b) has lapsed and no appeal is filed; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                                       65

       (c) the prescribed period for filing an appeal to the General
            Division of the High Court under subsection (4) has lapsed
            and no appeal is filed,

the contravention notice may, by permission of a District Court, be
enforced against the person or platform operator in the same manner
as a judgment of the District Court, and where permission is so given,
judgment may be entered in terms of that contravention notice.

 (8) The initial authorised officer may, in any case in which the
initial authorised officer thinks fit, waive, remit or refund in whole or
in part any administrative penalty paid or required to be paid under
section 77.

Directions in lieu of or in addition to contravention notices

 79.—(1) In lieu of or in addition to giving a platform operator a
contravention notice under section 77(1)(c), an authorised officer
may —

       (a) issue any directions to the platform operator that the
            authorised officer thinks appropriate to bring the civil
            contravention to an end; and

       (b) where necessary, require the platform operator to take such
            action as is specified in the direction to remedy, mitigate or
            eliminate any effects of the civil contravention and to
            prevent the recurrence of the civil contravention.

 (2) A platform operator that, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with a direction given to the platform operator under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 5
             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Administration of Act
 80.—(1) The Commissioner may appoint —
       (a) any public officer as an authorised officer; or

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
66  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (b) any other individual as an authorised person,

to assist the Commissioner in the administration of this Act.

 (2) The Commissioner may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
Commissioner’s powers or duties under this Act (except the power of
delegation under this subsection) to any authorised officer or
authorised person, subject to any conditions or limitation that the
Commissioner may specify.

 (3) Every authorised person appointed under subsection (1)(b) is
deemed to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871
when exercising any power conferred or performing any duty
imposed on the authorised person by or under this Act.

Powers of Commissioner, authorised officers and authorised
persons

 81.—(1) For the purposes of the execution of this Act, the
Commissioner and any authorised officer or authorised person has
the following powers:

       (a) to enter, inspect and examine at any time any premises;

       (b) to inspect or examine any thing or observe any activity
            conducted in or on the premises;

       (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the
            premises and any thing in or on the premises;

       (d) to inspect any document in or on the premises and take
            extracts from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (e) to take into or onto the premises any equipment and
            material that the Commissioner, authorised officer or
            authorised person requires for the purpose of exercising
            any power in relation to the premises;

        (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

       (g) to take into custody any article in the premises which is
            relevant to the carrying out of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) For the purposes of the execution of this Act, the Commissioner
or an authorised officer may —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         67

       (a) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with any facts and circumstances relevant to the carrying
            out of the provisions of this Act;

       (b) require any person who appears to be acquainted with any
            facts and circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the
            provisions of this Act to attend at the time and place
            specified in a written notice served on the person; and

       (c) require any person whom the Commissioner or authorised
            officer has reason to believe has any document or
            information relevant to the carrying out of the provisions
            of this Act to produce the document or provide the
            information, within a reasonable period specified by the
            Commissioner or authorised officer.

 (3) The power under subsection (1)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises.

 (4) The power to require a person to provide a document or
information under subsection (2)(c) includes the power —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
68  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person to state, to the best of his or her knowledge and
            belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Commissioner or authorised officer in legible form.

 (5) A person examined under this section must state truly the facts
and circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the provisions of
this Act with which the person is acquainted, except only that the
person need not say anything that might expose the person to a
criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.

 (6) A statement made by a person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

Notice to platform operator by Commissioner, etc., of
inspection or visit

 82. On entering any premises occupied by a platform operator
under section 81(1)(a), the Commissioner, authorised officer or
authorised person (as the case may be) must notify the platform
operator or the platform operator’s representative of his or her
presence unless he or she considers that such a notification may be
prejudicial to the efficient performance of his or her duties.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         69

Disposal of documents or thing

 83.—(1) Any document or thing that the Commissioner or an
authorised officer or authorised person takes possession of under this
Part must —

       (a) where the document or thing is produced in any criminal
            trial, be dealt with in accordance with section 364 of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010; and

       (b) in any other case — be returned to the owner or reported to
            a Magistrate.

 (2) Where the report of any document or thing is made to a
Magistrate under subsection (1)(b), the Magistrate may order the
document or thing —

       (a) to be forfeited; or

       (b) to be disposed of in any manner that the Magistrate thinks
            fit.

 (3) Nothing in this section is taken to prejudice any right to retain or
dispose of property which may exist in law apart from this section.

Offences of wilfully obstructing or delaying Commissioner, etc.

 84.—(1) A person who —

       (a) wilfully obstructs or delays the Commissioner or an
            authorised officer or authorised person in the exercise of
            his or her powers under this Part;

       (b) wilfully withholds any information that the person is
            required to give under this Act; or

       (c) in providing any document or information required by the
            Commissioner or an authorised officer under this Act,
            makes any statement which the person knows or ought
            reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to whether, it is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall be liable
on conviction —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
70  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of a second or subsequent offence — to a fine
            not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) A platform operator or other person that in any way obstructs
any platform worker from appearing before the Commissioner or an
authorised officer shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Persons not to reveal protected information

 85.—(1) If a person exercising any function under this Act obtains
protected information about the affairs of another person, the
firstmentioned person must not disclose that protected information
to any other person unless the disclosure —

       (a) is made with the written consent of the person to whom the
            information relates;

       (b) is for the purpose of the administration or enforcement of
            this Act; or

       (c) is in compliance with the requirement of any court,
            tribunal, authority or person having lawful authority to
            require the production of documents or the answering of
            questions.

 (2) If any person acts in contravention of subsection (1), he or she
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (3) For the purpose of this section, the reference to a person
disclosing any protected information includes his or her permitting
any other person to have any access to any record, document or other
thing containing that information which is in his or her possession or
under his or her control by virtue of the person being or having been
an authorised officer or authorised person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         71

 (4) In this section, “protected information” means information the
disclosure of which would, or could reasonably be expected to,
disclose a trade secret or to adversely affect a person in relation to the
lawful business affairs of that person.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Protection from personal liability

 86. No liability shall lie personally against any of the following
persons who, acting in good faith and with reasonable care, does or
omits to do anything in the execution or purported execution of this
Act:

       (a) the Commissioner;

       (b) any authorised officer or authorised person;

       (c) the Registrar of Platform Work Associations or any
            Assistant Registrar of Platform Work Associations.

Abetment of offences

 87. A person who abets the commission of an offence under this
Act shall be guilty of the offence and shall be liable on conviction to
be punished with the punishment provided for that offence.

Offences by corporations

 88.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
72  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         73

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act 2005;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 89.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
74  NO. 30 OF 2024

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         75

this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Composition of offences

 90.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act (except Part 3) that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by
collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) The Commissioner may compound any offence under Part 3
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $200.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
76  NO. 30 OF 2024

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Jurisdiction of court

 91. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 —

       (a) a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
            this Act (except Part 3) and has power to impose the full
            punishment for any such offence; and

       (b) a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to
            try any offence under Part 3 and has power to impose the
            full punishment for any such offence.

Service of documents

 92.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         77

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (5) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post — 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered);

       (b) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received — on the day of
            transmission; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
78  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (c) if the document is sent by email — at the time that the
            email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to
            whom it is sent.

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
         to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Interface with other laws

 93. This Act does not affect any requirement, duty or obligation
imposed on a person who is a platform operator or platform worker
under any other written law or any rule of law.

General power to exempt

 94. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to any conditions that the
Minister may impose.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         79

Amendment of Schedules

 95.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the First, Second or Third Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in an order made under subsection (1), make
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order that the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

 (3) All orders made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 96.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for all or any of
the following matters:

       (a) the records that must be maintained by a platform operator,
            including the form and contents of the records and the
            manner in which the records are to be displayed;

       (b) the statistics that must be collected, including the method
            of collecting the statistics (either in connection with or
            independently of any other public authority), the staff to be
            employed in connection with the collection, the duties to
            be performed and the publications (if any) to be issued;

       (c) the regulation of the conduct of a platform operator
            towards a platform worker, for the purposes of protecting
            the platform worker from any practice relating to the
            provision of a platform service that may adversely affect
            the platform worker’s wellbeing;

       (d) prescribe the administrative penalties for civil
            contraventions under Part 4 of an amount not exceeding
            $1,000 for each occasion of a civil contravention, and
            $2,000 in the case of a second or subsequent occasion of
            the civil contravention;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
80  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (e) the manner in which an appeal may be made to the Minister
            under this Act and the procedure for such appeals;

        (f) any matter that is required or permitted to be prescribed
            under this Act.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may provide that any
contravention of any provision of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) All regulations made under this Act must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                    PART 7
                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
Amendment of Central Provident Fund Act 1953
 97. The Central Provident Fund Act 1953 is amended in the manner
set out in the Fourth Schedule.

Amendment of Income Tax Act 1947
 98. The Income Tax Act 1947 is amended in the manner set out in

the Fifth Schedule.

Amendment of Industrial Relations Act 1960
 99. The Industrial Relations Act 1960 is amended in the manner set

out in the Sixth Schedule.

Amendment of Trade Disputes Act 1941
 100. The Trade Disputes Act 1941 is amended in the manner set out

in the Seventh Schedule.

Amendment of Trade Unions Act 1940
 101. The Trade Unions Act 1940 is amended in the manner set out

in the Eighth Schedule.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         81

Amendment of Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
 102. The Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 is amended in the

manner set out in the Ninth Schedule.

Amendment of Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006
 103. The Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006 is amended in the

manner set out in the Tenth Schedule.

                                    PART 8

      CONSEQUENTIAL AND RELATED AMENDMENTS
                             TO OTHER ACTS

Amendment of Business Names Registration Act 2014

 104. In the Business Names Registration Act 2014, in section 4(1),
after paragraph (j), insert —

           “(ja) any platform work association registered under the
                  Platform Workers Act 2024;”.

Amendment of Child Development Co-Savings Act 2001

 105. In the Child Development Co-Savings Act 2001 —

       (a) in section 2(1), after the definition of “personal
            representative”, insert —

                  “ “platform operator” has the meaning given by
                        section 4 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;”;

       (b) in section 2, after subsection (1), insert —

                    “(1A) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of this Act, a
                  platform worker (within the meaning given by
                  section 5(1) of the Platform Workers Act 2024) is
                  to be regarded as a person who engages in or carries
                  on a trade, business, profession or vocation other than
                  employment under a contract of service and derives
                  income from that trade, business, profession or
                  vocation.”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
82  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (c) in the following provisions, after “an employer,”, insert
            “a platform operator,”:

       (c) Section 9A(6)
       (c) Section 12B(20)
       (c) Section 12F(4)
       (c) Section 12I(5);
       (d) in section 12A(9), before “a female employee”, insert

            “an employer, a platform operator,”;

       (e) in section 12AB(4), before “a self‑employed woman”,
            insert “a platform operator or”; and

        (f) in section 12HA(8), before “a male employee”, insert
            “an employer, a platform operator,”.

Amendment of Companies Act 1967

 106. In the Companies Act 1967, in section 4(1), in the definition of
“corporation” —

       (a) in paragraph (d), delete “or” at the end; and

       (b) after paragraph (d), insert —

                       “(da) any platform work association registered
                               under the Platform Workers Act 2024; or”.

Amendment of Co-operative Societies Act 1979

 107. In the Co-operative Societies Act 1979 —

       (a) in section 2(1), in the definition of “institutional member”,
            replace “or a trade union” with “, a trade union or
            a platform work association”;

       (b) in section 2(1), after the definition of “permanent share”,
            insert —

                  “ “platform work association” means a platform work
                        association registered under the Platform
                        Workers Act 2024;”;

       (c) in section 2(1), replace the definition of “secondary
            society” with —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         83

                  “ “secondary society” means a society, each of whose
                        registered members is a co‑operative society, a
                        trade union or a platform work association;”;

       (d) in section 38, replace “or trade union” with “, trade union
            or platform work association”;

       (e) in section 39(1)(b), replace “or is a trade union” with
            “, a trade union or a platform work association”;

        (f) in section 39(2), replace “and trade unions” with “, trade
            unions and platform work associations”;

       (g) in section 44(2)(b), replace “or a trade union” with
            “, another society, a trade union or a platform work
            association”; and

       (h) in the following provisions, replace “or a trade union” with
            “, a trade union or a platform work association”:

       (h) Section 5(2)
       (h) Section 7(1)(b)(ii)
       (h) Section 43(3)
       (h) Section 83(2)(b)(ii).

Amendment of Enlistment Act 1970

 108. In the Enlistment Act 1970, in section 24 —

       (a) in subsection (1), replace paragraphs (f) and (g) with —

                         “(f) a platform worker providing a platform
                               service for a platform operator;

                          (g) gainfully employed by one or more
                               employers;

                          (h) self-employed as well as a platform
                               worker;

                          (i) self-employed as well as gainfully
                               employed under a contract of service;

                          (j) a platform worker as well as gainfully
                               employed under a contract of service; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
84  NO. 30 OF 2024

                      (k) self-employed, gainfully employed under a
                           contract of service as well as a platform
                           worker,”;

    (b) in subsection (4), replace paragraph (b) with —

                     “(b) where that person —

                              (i) is self-employed as well as gainfully
                                  employed under a contract of service;

                             (ii) is a platform worker as well as is
                                  gainfully employed under a contract
                                  of service; or

                            (iii) is self-employed, a platform worker
                                  as well as is gainfully employed
                                  under a contract of service,

                      (b) his employer shall only be liable to pay the
                           difference between his civilian
                           remuneration and his service
                           remuneration in the proportion that the
                           civilian remuneration paid by his employer
                           bears to his total civilian remuneration.”;

    (c) after subsection (6), insert —

                “(6A) Where under the Central Provident Fund
               Act 1953 a platform operator pays contributions in
               respect of a platform worker who provides a platform
               service for that platform operator, the platform
               operator shall continue to pay the same amount of
               contributions and at the same rate notwithstanding
               that the platform worker is performing —

                      (a) any service under section 14 of this Act or
                           section 118(17) of the Singapore Armed
                           Forces Act 1972;

                      (b) any voluntary service in the Singapore
                           Armed Forces; or

                      (c) any mobilised service.”;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                       PLATFORM WORKERS                  85

(d) in subsection (7), in the definition of “civilian
     remuneration”, in paragraph (a), replace
     “or self‑employment” with “, self‑employment or the
     provision of a platform service for a platform operator”;
     and

(e) in subsection (7), after the definition of “mobilised
     service”, insert —

           “ “platform operator” has the meaning given by
                section 4 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

             “platform service” has the meaning given by
                section 3 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

             “platform worker” has the meaning given by
                section 5(1) of the Platform Workers Act 2024;”.

Amendment of Extradition Act 1968

 109. In the Extradition Act 1968, in the First Schedule, in Part 2,
replace item 3 with —

“3. Central Provident   7(3) Failure of an employer to pay any amount
     Fund Act 1953              which the employer had recovered from an
                                employee’s monthly wages in accordance
                                with section 7(2) of the Central Provident
                                Fund Act 1953 into the Central Provident
                                Fund within the permitted time

                       8A(3) Failure of a platform operator to pay any
                                amount which the platform operator had
                                recovered from a platform worker’s
                                platform remuneration in accordance with
                                section 8A(2) of the Central Provident Fund
                                Act 1953 into the Central Provident Fund
                                within the permitted time”.

Amendment of Foreign Interference (Countermeasures)
Act 2021

 110. In the Foreign Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021 —

       (a) in section 3(1), in the definition of “relevant entity”, in
            paragraph (c), replace sub‑paragraphs (ii) and (iii) with —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
86  NO. 30 OF 2024

                               “(ii) the Societies Act 1966;

                                (iii) the Trade Unions Act 1940; or

                                (iv) the Platform Workers Act 2024;”;
                                      and

       (b) in section 29, in the table, in item 14, in the column
            “Recipient may be”, replace “or the Trade Unions
            Act 1940” with “, the Trade Unions Act 1940 or the
            Platform Workers Act 2024”.

Amendment of Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005

 111. In the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005 —

       (a) in section 2(1), in the definition of “corporation”, replace
            paragraphs (d) and (e) with —

                        “(d) any co-operative society;

                          (e) any registered trade union; or

                          (f) any registered platform work association;”;

       (b) in section 11(2), after “trade union”, insert “or platform
            work association”;

       (c) in the Fifth Schedule, in paragraph 76, replace
            sub‑paragraph (2) with —
                  “(2) Subject to sub‑paragraph (2A), the amount payable under

                    sub‑paragraph (1)(b) and (c) must not exceed the lower of the
                    following amounts for each employee:

                            (a) 5 months’ salary (whether for time or piecework) in
                                 respect of services rendered by the employee to the
                                 limited liability partnership;

                            (b) $13,000, or an amount that is 5 times the amount
                                 (if any) prescribed by the Minister charged with the
                                 responsibility for manpower under section 35(b) of
                                 the Employment Act 1968, whichever is the higher.

                      (2A) Where the amounts in sub‑paragraph (2)(a) and (b) are
                    the same, the amount payable for each employee under
                    sub‑paragraph (1)(b) and (c) is equal to either of those
                    amounts.”; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         87

(d) in the Fifth Schedule, after paragraph 76, insert —

          “Priority of specified debts relating to platform workers

            in winding up of platform operator

             76A.—(1) This paragraph applies in relation to a winding up
            of a platform operator that is a limited liability partnership.

             (2) The following have priority over all unsecured debts of the
            platform operator, other than the preferential debts specified in
            paragraph 76(1)(a) to (f), and rank in priority after the debts
            specified in paragraph 76(1)(f) but before those specified in
            paragraph 76(1)(g):

                   (a) first, all earnings payable to a platform worker,
                        including any amount payable by way of
                        reimbursement under any platform work agreement
                        or any award or agreement regulating the conditions
                        under which any platform worker provides a platform
                        service for the platform operator;

                   (b) second, all amounts due in respect of any work injury
                        compensation payable to or for the benefit of a
                        platform worker under the Work Injury Compensation
                        Act 2019 accrued before, on or after the
                        commencement of the winding up;

                   (c) third, all amounts due in respect of contributions
                        payable, during a period of 12 consecutive months
                        commencing not earlier than 12 months before and
                        ending not later than 12 months after the
                        commencement of the winding up, by the platform
                        operator, under any written law relating to platform
                        workers’ superannuation or provident funds.

             (3) The amount payable under sub‑paragraph (2)(a) must not
            exceed $13,000.

             (4) The debts in each class specified in sub‑paragraph (2) rank
            in the order specified in that sub‑paragraph but debts of the same
            class rank equally between themselves, and are to be paid in full,
            unless the property of the platform operator is insufficient to
            meet them, in which case the debts of the same class abate in
            equal proportions between themselves.

             (5) Where any payment has been made to any platform worker
            of the platform operator on account of earnings out of money

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
88  NO. 30 OF 2024

                    advanced by a person for that purpose, the person by whom the
                    money was advanced, in a winding up —

                            (a) has a right of priority in respect of the money so
                                 advanced and paid, up to the amount by which the
                                 sum in respect of which the platform worker would
                                 have been entitled to priority in the winding up has
                                 been diminished by reason of the payment; and

                            (b) has the same right of priority in respect of that amount
                                 as the platform worker would have had if the payment
                                 had not been made.

                      (6) So far as the assets of the platform operator available for
                    payment of general creditors are insufficient to meet any
                    preferential debts specified in —

                            (a) paragraph 76(1)(a), (b), (c), (e) and (f);

                            (b) sub‑paragraph (2)(a) and (c); and

                            (c) any amount payable in priority by virtue of
                                 sub‑paragraph (5) or paragraph 76(6),

                    those debts —

                            (d) have priority over the claims of the holders of
                                 debentures under any floating charge created by the
                                 platform operator (which charge, as created, was a
                                 floating charge); and

                            (e) must be paid accordingly out of any property
                                 comprised in or subject to that charge.

                      (7) In this paragraph —

                          “earnings” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
                              Platform Workers Act 2024;

                          “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of
                              the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                          “platform work agreement” has the meaning given by
                              section 2 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                          “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of
                              the Platform Workers Act 2024.”.

Amendment of Limited Partnerships Act 2008

 112. In the Limited Partnerships Act 2008, in section 2(1), in the
definition of “corporation”, replace paragraphs (d) and (e) with —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         89

            “(d) any co-operative society;

             (e) any registered trade union; or

              (f) any registered platform work association;”.

Amendment of Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act 1990

 113. In the Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act 1990, in
section 2, in the definition of “entity”, after paragraph (h), insert —

            “(i) a platform work association;”.

Amendment of Motor Vehicles (Third-Party Risks and
Compensation) Act 1960

 114. In the Motor Vehicles (Third-Party Risks and Compensation)
Act 1960, in section 4 —

       (a) in subsection (4), replace paragraph (a) with —

                        “(a) liability in respect of —

                                 (i) the death of or bodily injury
                                      sustained by a person (A) who is in
                                      the employment of a person insured
                                      by the policy, where the death or
                                      bodily injury arises out of and in the
                                      course of A’s employment; or

                                 (ii) the death of or bodily injury
                                      sustained by a platform worker (B)
                                      who provides a platform service for a
                                      platform operator insured by the
                                      policy, where the death or bodily
                                      injury arises out of and in the course
                                      of B’s provision of the platform
                                      service for that platform operator;
                                      or”; and

       (b) after subsection (4), insert —

                    “(4A) In subsection (4) —

                        “platform operator” has the meaning given by
                            section 4 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
90  NO. 30 OF 2024

                        “platform service” has the meaning given by
                            section 3 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                        “platform worker” has the meaning given by
                            section 5(1) of the Platform Workers
                            Act 2024.”.

Amendment of Mutual Benefit Organisations Act 1960

 115. In the Mutual Benefit Organisations Act 1960, in
section 48(1), replace “or the Trade Unions Act 1940” with
“, the Trade Unions Act 1940 or the Platform Workers Act 2024”.

Amendment of Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry
Act 2019

 116. In the Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019,
in section 4(1), replace the definition of “participating driver
agreement” with —

      “ “participating driver agreement”, in relation to a provider of a
           ride-hail service, means an agreement or arrangement
           between the provider of a ride‑hail service and a driver of
           a bookable vehicle under which —

                    (a) the provider agrees to —

                            (i) take or facilitate any booking by or on
                                behalf of a passenger for bookable
                                vehicles made available, or to be made
                                available, in providing on‑demand
                                passenger transport services (whether
                                immediately or at a later time) to the
                                passenger; and

                           (ii) communicate the booking to participating
                                bookable drivers; and

                    (b) the driver agrees to carry out the on‑demand
                         passenger transport service in the booking by
                         transporting the passenger for hire or reward,
                         using a bookable vehicle,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         91

           and it does not matter —

                    (c) whether or not —

                            (i) the driver is an employee or agent of the
                                provider of the ride‑hail service; or

                           (ii) where the provider of the ride‑hail service
                                is a platform operator, the driver is a
                                platform worker of the provider; or

                    (d) whether the vehicle is hired from that provider;

        “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
           Platform Workers Act 2024;

        “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of
           the Platform Workers Act 2024;”.

Amendment of Public Entertainments Act 1958

 117. In the Public Entertainments Act 1958, in the First Schedule,
in paragraph 3(d), after “registered trade unions,”, insert “registered
platform work associations,”.

Amendment of Requisition of Resources Act 1985

 118. In the Requisition of Resources Act 1985, in section 27 —

       (a) in subsection (2)(b), replace “had not been” with
            “not been”;

       (b) in subsection (2), after paragraph (b), insert —

                       “(ba) is a platform worker — he or she must be
                               paid such remuneration as would have been
                               derived from his or her provision of a
                               platform service for a platform operator
                               had the person’s service not been
                               requisitioned;”;

       (c) in subsection (4), replace “subsection (2)(a) or (b)” with
            “subsection (2)(a), (b) or (ba)”;

       (d) in subsection (4), after “self‑employed person”, insert
            “or platform worker”; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
92  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (e) replace subsection (6) with —

                    “(6) In this section —

                        “platform operator” has the meaning given by
                            section 4 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                        “platform service” has the meaning given by
                            section 3 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                        “platform worker” has the meaning given by
                            section 5(1) of the Platform Workers
                            Act 2024;

                        “service” includes any work carried out or
                            performed for the competent authority.”.

Amendment of Road Traffic Act 1961

 119. In the Road Traffic Act 1961, in section 110B, replace the
definitions of “participating bookable driver” and “participating
driver agreement” with —

      “ “participating bookable driver”, for a designated exempt ride-
           hail service operator, means a driver who has a participating
           driver agreement with the operator, and it is immaterial
           whether —

                    (a) the driver is an employee or agent of the
                         designated exempt ride-hail service operator; or

                    (b) where the designated exempt ride‑hail service
                         operator is a platform operator, the driver is a
                         platform worker of the operator;

        “participating driver agreement”, in relation to a designated
           exempt ride‑hail service operator providing a ride-hail
           service, means an agreement or arrangement between the
           designated exempt ride‑hail service operator and a driver of
           a bookable vehicle under which —

                    (a) the designated exempt ride‑hail service operator
                         agrees to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         93

                            (i) take or facilitate any booking by or on
                                behalf of a passenger for bookable
                                vehicles to be made available in
                                providing on‑demand passenger
                                transport services (whether immediately
                                or at a later time) to the passenger; and

                           (ii) communicate the booking to participating
                                bookable drivers; and

                    (b) the driver agrees to carry out the on‑demand
                         passenger transport service in the booking by
                         transporting the passenger for hire or reward,
                         using a bookable vehicle,

           and it does not matter —

                    (c) whether or not —

                            (i) the driver is an employee or agent of the
                                designated exempt ride‑hail service
                                operator; or

                           (ii) where the designated exempt ride‑hail
                                service operator is a platform operator,
                                the driver is a platform worker of that
                                operator; or

                    (d) whether the vehicle is hired from that operator;

        “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
           Platform Workers Act 2024;

        “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of
           the Platform Workers Act 2024;”.

Amendment of Singapore Labour Foundation Act 1977

 120. In the Singapore Labour Foundation Act 1977, in section 4 —

       (a) in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d), replace “trade union
            movement” with “labour movement”;

       (b) in paragraph (c)(i) and (ii), after “trade unions”, insert
            “and platform work associations”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
94  NO. 30 OF 2024

       (c) replace paragraph (f) with —

                         “(f) construct and maintain suitable premises
                               for the use of trade unions, platform work
                               associations and co‑operative societies
                               managed by trade unions, platform work
                               associations or both in Singapore; and”;
                               and

       (d) in paragraph (g), replace “trade union” with “labour
            movement”.

Amendment of Societies Act 1966

 121. In the Societies Act 1966, in section 2, in the definition of
“society”, after paragraph (d), insert —

          “(da) any platform work association registered or required
                  to be registered under the Platform Workers
                  Act 2024;”.

                           FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                          Section 3

                                PLATFORM SERVICES

1. The following are platform services for the purposes of the Act:

       (a) delivery service;

       (b) ride-hail service.

2. In this Schedule —

    “bookable vehicle”, in relation to a ride‑hail service, means any of the
        following vehicles used or intended to be used in providing a ride‑hail
        service through a booking taken or facilitated by a provider of a ride‑hail
        service:

               (a) a taxi;

               (b) a private hire car (within the meaning given by the Road Traffic
                    Act 1961) which is hired, or made available for hire, under a
                    contract (express or implied) for use as a whole with a driver for
                    the purpose of conveying one or more passengers (if any) in that
                    car;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         95

                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

“booking”, in relation to a ride‑hail service, means a booking for a bookable
   vehicle to be used in providing an on‑demand passenger transport service
   taken or facilitated by the provider of the ride‑hail service;

“delivery service” means a service that involves —

          (a) the collection of any goods or item from one or more places; and

          (b) the delivery of the goods or item to one or more other places;

“on-demand passenger transport service” and “on‑demand ride booking
   service” have the meanings given by section 4(1) of the Point‑to‑Point
   Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019;

“ride-hail service” —

          (a) means —

                     (i) an on-demand passenger transport service of any type
                          provided using bookable vehicles; or

                     (ii) an on-demand ride booking service of any type
                          provided using bookable vehicles; but

          (b) excludes the following:

                     (i) taxi call-booking services;

                     (ii) a car pooling arrangement within the meaning given by
                          paragraph 2 of the Road Traffic (Car Pooling —
                          Exemption) (No. 3) Order 2021 (G.N. No. S 888/2021)
                          provided by an individual in accordance with
                          paragraph 3 of that Order;

                                                                            [S 282/2026 wef 04/05/2026]

                    (iii) a service described in paragraph (a)(i) or (ii) that —

                             (A) involves the transport by a bookable vehicle of
                                   passengers between Singapore and Malaysia
                                   for hire or reward; and

                             (B) is provided by a person authorised by a ride-
                                   hail service licence under Part 4 of the Point-to-
                                   Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019 to
                                   provide the service.

                                                                            [S 282/2026 wef 04/05/2026]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
96  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                     Section 6(1)(c)

                      REQUIREMENTS, PROHIBITIONS AND
                          RESTRICTIONS IN RELATION TO

                       PROVISION OF PLATFORM SERVICE

 1. The requirements, prohibitions and restrictions mentioned in section 6(1)(c)
imposed by a person (A) on an individual (B) in respect of B’s provision of a
platform service for A are the following:

        (a) any requirement that B must adhere to any rules, guidelines or
             standards imposed or specified by A in relation to B’s provision of the
             platform service for A, including rules, guidelines or standards relating
             to —

                  (i) when and how the platform service is or is to be provided to a
                      service user; or

                 (ii) the quality or standard of the platform service that is or is to be
                      provided to a service user;

        (b) any prohibition or restriction (express or implied) of B’s ability to
             negotiate with a service user the amount or terms of any payment for or
             in relation to the platform service that B provides or intends to provide
             for A;

        (c) any prohibition or restriction (express or implied) of B’s ability to
             establish or maintain his or her own clientele for the platform service
             that B provides or intends to provide for A;

        (d) any prohibition or restriction (express or implied) of B’s ability to
             determine —

                  (i) the time or times at which or the duration for which B provides
                      the platform service for A; or

                 (ii) the number of tasks B performs in the provision of the platform
                      service for A;

        (e) any incentive A offers or may offer to B or any penalty A imposes or
             may impose on B, where the incentive is offered or the penalty is
             imposed (as the case may be) in a systematic manner for the purpose
             of —

                  (i) encouraging B to continue providing, or discouraging B from
                      ceasing to provide, the platform service for A; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         97

                        SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

               (ii) encouraging B to increase, or discouraging B from reducing,
                     the number of tasks B performs in the course of B’s provision of
                     the platform service for A.

2. In paragraph 1(e) —

    “incentive”, in relation to B’s provision of a platform service for A,
        includes —

               (a) any benefit in money or in kind, or any increase in the amount or
                    value of any such benefit, given to B;

               (b) any privilege, or any additional privilege, provided to or
                    conferred on B; or

               (c) any other measure or act the effect or intended effect of which is
                    to —

                          (i) increase the earnings of, the amount or value of any
                              benefit in money or in kind given or the privileges
                              provided to or conferred on B; or

                         (ii) enhance B’s ability to accrue earnings or any such
                              benefits or privileges,

               (c) from providing the platform service for A;

    “penalty”, in relation to B’s provision of a platform service for A, includes —

               (a) the withholding of any benefit in money or in kind from B, or
                    any reduction of the amount or value of any such benefit given
                    to B;

               (b) the withholding or withdrawal of any privilege from B; or

               (c) any other measure or act the effect or intended effect of which is
                    to —

                          (i) reduce the earnings of, the amount or value of any
                              benefit in money or in kind given or the privileges
                              provided to or conferred on B; or

                         (ii) adversely affect B’s ability to accrue earnings or any
                              such benefits or privileges,

               (c) from providing the platform service for A.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
98  NO. 30 OF 2024

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 48(1) and 49(5)

            MATTERS FOR WHICH PROVISION MUST BE MADE
                     IN RULES OF REGISTERED PLATFORM
                                  WORK ASSOCIATION

 1. The name of the platform work association and the place of meeting for the
business of the platform work association.

 2. The whole of the objects for which the platform work association is to be
established, the purposes for which the funds of the platform work association are
applicable, the conditions under which any member of the platform work
association may become entitled to any benefit assured by the platform work
association, and the fines and forfeitures to be imposed on any member.

 3. The manner of making, altering, amending and rescinding rules of the
platform work association.

 4. The appointment or election and removal of an executive and of trustees,
secretaries, treasurers and other officers of the platform work association.

 5. The custody and investment of the funds of the platform work association, the
designation of the officer or officers responsible for those funds, and the annual or
periodic audit of its accounts.

 6. The inspection of the books and names of members of the platform work
association by any person having an interest in the funds of the platform work
association.

 7. The manner of the dissolution of the platform work association and the
disposal of the funds of the platform work association available at the time of such
dissolution.

 8. The taking of all decisions in respect of the election of officers, the
amendment of rules, strikes, dissolution and any other matter affecting the
members of the platform work association generally, by secret ballot.

                           FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 97

        AMENDMENT OF CENTRAL PROVIDENT FUND ACT 1953

Amendment of section 2

 1. In the Central Provident Fund Act 1953 (called in this Schedule the CPF Act),
in section 2 —

        (a) in subsection (1), after the definition of “payout benchmark applicable
             to the member”, insert —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         99

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                   “ “platform earnings”, in relation to a platform worker, means the
                         platform worker’s platform remuneration, but excludes any
                         excluded payments that the Minister may, by notification in
                         the Gazette, specify;

                      “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
                         Platform Workers Act 2024;

                      “platform remuneration”, in relation to a platform worker,
                         means the remuneration in money payable to the platform
                         worker in respect of any platform service provided by the
                         platform worker to a service user for a platform operator
                         under a platform work agreement, and includes any bonus
                         earned by the platform worker in respect of the platform
                         service;

                      “platform service”, “platform work agreement”, “platform
                         worker” and “service user” have the respective meanings
                         given by the Platform Workers Act 2024;”;

        (b) in subsection (9), replace “has computed the amount of contributions
             payable by a member or his or her employer in reliance on that
             subsection,” with “has, in reliance on that subsection, computed the
             amount of contributions payable by a member or by an employer or a
             platform operator in respect of a member”; and

        (c) in subsection (9)(a) and (b)(i) and (ii), replace “or his or her employer”
             with “, employer or platform operator”.

Amendment of section 5

 2. In the CPF Act, in section 5 —

        (a) in subsection (3), replace “In the course of an inspection” with “For the
             purposes of this Act”;

        (b) in subsection (3), replace paragraph (a) with —

                      “(a) enter and search any premises or place where the

                                 inspector has reasonable cause to believe that a person
                                 is employed or that evidence of the commission of a
                                 relevant offence can be found;

                          (ab) require any person found in the premises or place to
                                 answer any question (to the best of that person’s
                                 knowledge, information and belief) and provide any
                                 document or information, about any matter relevant
                                 for the purposes of this Act;”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
100  NO. 30 OF 2024

                      FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     (c) in subsection (3)(f)(i), replace “furnished” wherever it appears with
          “provided”;

     (d) replace subsection (3A) with —

               “(3A) In addition to the powers conferred on him or her under

                subsection (3), an inspector who has reasonable cause to believe
                that a relevant offence has been committed may by written notice
                require any person to —

                        (a) provide information within the knowledge of that
                             person;

                        (b) provide any document in the possession, custody or
                             control of that person; or

                        (c) attend at any place to answer any question,

                which the inspector considers to be relevant to the investigation of
                the relevant offence, at any reasonable time and place specified in
                the notice.

                 (3AA) A person required to provide any document or
                information or to answer any question under subsection (3) or
                (3A) must provide the document or information or answer the
                question (as the case may be) and state truly the facts and
                circumstances with which that person is acquainted concerning
                the matter under investigation.”;

     (e) replace subsection (3B) with —

               “(3B) An inspector may inspect, make a copy of or take extracts

                from any document provided or produced under subsection (3) or
                (3A), and take possession of the document if, in the inspector’s
                opinion —

                        (a) the copying of the document cannot be reasonably
                             done unless possession is taken;

                        (b) the document may be tampered with unless possession
                             is taken; or

                        (c) the document may be required as evidence in any
                             proceedings for a relevant offence or in any
                             proceedings for the recovery of moneys due to the
                             Fund.”;

     (f) replace subsection (4) with —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         101

                 FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

          “(4) Where a document required by an inspector is kept in

           electronic form —

                   (a) the power of an inspector in relation to any document
                        under subsection (3) or (3A) includes the power to
                        require a copy of that document to be made available
                        for inspection in legible form; and

                   (b) subsection (3B) applies to any copy so made
                        available.

            (4A) In relation to compliance with section 8A —

                   (a) subsection (3) applies, with the necessary
                        modifications, to a platform operator that is required
                        under section 8A to contribute to the Fund as it applies
                        to an employer;

                   (b) a reference to wages in subsection (3) is to be
                        construed, with the necessary modifications, as a
                        reference to platform remuneration payable to a
                        platform worker of a platform operator; and

                   (c) a reference to an employee in subsection (3) is to be
                        construed, with the necessary modifications, as a
                        reference to a platform worker of a platform operator
                        and a reference to employment is to be construed as
                        engagement by the platform operator.

            (4B) In relation to compliance with section 9A —

                   (a) subsection (3) applies, with the necessary
                        modifications, to a self‑employed person who is
                        required under section 9A to contribute to the Fund
                        as it applies to an employer; and

                   (b) a reference to wages in subsection (3) is to be
                        construed as a reference to income of that
                        self‑employed person.

            (4C) Any copy of or extract from a document made under this
           section and certified as such by the inspector is admissible as
           evidence in any proceedings under this Act.”;

(g) in subsection (5)(b), replace “produce any record, certificate, notice or
     document” with “provide or produce any document”;

(h) in subsection (5), replace paragraph (c) with —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
102  NO. 30 OF 2024

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      “(c) contravenes subsection (3AA) or wilfully withholds

                                 any information which that person is required by this
                                 section to provide to an inspector or such officer; or”;
                                 and

         (i) replace subsection (7) with —

                 “(7) In this section —

                         “document” —

                                    (a) means any document (including any record,
                                         contract, register, book of accounts or
                                         statements of accounts mentioned in
                                         subsection (3)(d), (e) or (f)) in any medium; and

                                    (b) includes such a document containing
                                         information in digital or electronic form;

                         “relevant offence” means —

                                    (a) an offence under section 7(3) or (5) or 58(1)(b)
                                         or (e) committed by an employer;

                                    (b) an offence under section 8A(3) or (5) or
                                         58(1)(b) or (e) committed by a platform
                                         operator;

                                    (c) an offence under section 60 committed by any
                                         director, manager, secretary or other officer of
                                         an employer or a platform operator that
                                         committed an offence mentioned in
                                         paragraph (a) or (b), as the case may be;

                                    (d) an offence under section 58(1)(d) or (e)
                                         committed by a self‑employed person;

                                    (e) an offence under section 58(1)(a) or (c)
                                         committed by any person; and

                                     (f) any other offence under this Act prescribed by
                                         regulations made under section 77(1) to be a
                                         relevant offence.”.

Amendment of section 7

 3. In the CPF Act, in section 7 —

        (a) replace the section heading with —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         103

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      “Contributions in respect of employees”; and

        (b) in subsection (1), delete “section 69 and”.

New section 8A

 4. In the CPF Act, after section 8, insert —

         “Contributions in respect of platform workers

            8A.—(1) Subject to any regulations made under section 77(1), every
           platform operator must pay to the Fund contributions in accordance with
           the Fourth Schedule in respect of each platform worker of the platform
           operator.

            (2) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), despite the provisions of any
           written law or any contract to the contrary, a platform operator that is
           required to pay contributions under subsection (1) in respect of a
           platform worker is entitled to deduct, from the platform worker’s
           platform remuneration in respect of a platform service provided by the
           platform worker for the platform operator, the recoverable amount in
           accordance with the Fourth Schedule.

            (3) Where a platform operator —

                   (a) has deducted any amount from a platform worker’s platform
                         remuneration under subsection (2); and

                   (b) fails to pay the contributions to which the deducted amount
                         relates to the Fund within the time specified in the Fourth
                         Schedule for the payment of the contributions or within the
                         extended time approved by the Board under
                         subsection (7)(a), if any,

           the platform operator shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
           conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
           not exceeding 7 years or to both.

            (4) Without limiting subsections (1) and (2) and the Fourth Schedule,
           and subject to section 13B(2) and such terms and conditions as the Board
           may impose —

                   (a) a platform worker may at any time contribute voluntarily to
                         the Fund a sum additional to the contributions required under
                         subsection (1); or

                   (b) a platform operator may at any time pay to the Fund
                         contributions in respect of any platform worker of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
104  NO. 30 OF 2024

                    FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                  platform operator at a rate in excess of the applicable rate
                  specified in the Fourth Schedule.

      (5) Despite any contract to the contrary, a platform operator is not
     entitled to recover in any way from a platform worker in respect of
     contributions payable under this Act any sum in excess of the total
     amount that the platform operator is permitted to recover under
     subsection (2) from the platform worker’s platform remuneration and
     any platform operator that recovers or attempts to recover any greater
     sum shall be guilty of an offence.

      (6) A platform operator may deduct the recoverable amount under
     subsection (2) from the platform worker’s platform remuneration in
     respect of a platform service provided by the platform worker for the
     platform operator only within the time specified in the Fourth Schedule
     for the deduction of the recoverable amount or within the extended time
     approved by the Board under subsection (7)(a), if any.

      (7) Subject to the limits (if any) prescribed in the Fourth Schedule, the
     Board may, on the application of a platform operator —

             (a) approve an extended time for the payment of contributions or
                  the deduction of a recoverable amount; or

             (b) specify that an option to be in a prescribed class of platform
                  workers mentioned in subsection (8)(d) applies in relation to
                  contributions payable by the platform operator for any
                  alternative months, instead of the month or months
                  prescribed in the Fourth Schedule.

      (8) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend the
     Fourth Schedule and may prescribe in that Schedule —

             (a) the computation of aggregate platform earnings;

             (b) the different rates of contributions payable in respect of
                  different types of platform earnings and classes of platform
                  operators or platform workers;

             (c) the times mentioned in subsections (3)(b) and (6), in respect
                  of different types of platform earnings and classes of
                  platform operators or platform workers;

             (d) whether and how a platform worker may opt to be in any
                  class of platform workers, including requiring the Board’s
                  approval, and when the option applies to any platform
                  earnings, contributions and platform operators; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         105

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

                    (e) matters as are necessary or expedient for giving full effect to
                         the purposes and provisions of this section.

            (9) Sections 9A and 9B do not apply to any platform remuneration paid
           or payable to a platform worker on or after a date prescribed by
           regulations made under section 77(1).”.

New section 8B

 5. In the CPF Act, before section 9, insert —

         “Disclosure and provision of information to facilitate

           administration of contributions for platform worker

            8B.—(1) On or after the date of commencement of paragraph 5 of the
           Fourth Schedule to the Platform Workers Act 2024, the Board may
           provide information concerning any platform worker to the following
           persons for the corresponding purpose:

                   (a) a platform operator — to pay contributions for a platform
                         worker;

                   (b) any other person — to enable the platform operator to pay
                         contributions for the platform worker.

            (2) On or after the date of commencement of paragraph 5 of the Fourth
           Schedule to the Platform Workers Act 2024, a platform worker must
           provide information to the Board or persons mentioned in subsection (1)
           to facilitate the performance of the duties, or the exercise of the powers,
           of the Board or those persons (as the case may be) in relation to the
           payment of contributions for the platform worker.”.

Amendment of section 9

 6. In the CPF Act, in section 9 —

        (a) replace subsection (1) with —

                 “(1) Where the amount of the contributions which an employer

                   or a platform operator is liable to pay under section 7 or 8A (as the
                   case may be) is not paid within such period as may be prescribed,
                   the employer or the platform operator (as the case may be) is
                   liable to pay interest on the amount for every day the amount
                   remains unpaid at the rate and commencing from the date
                   prescribed in regulations made under section 77(1).”; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
106  NO. 30 OF 2024

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued
        (b) in subsection (2), replace “such rate and commencing from such date

             as may be prescribed” with “the rate and commencing from the date
             prescribed in regulations made under section 77(1)”.

Amendment of section 13
 7. In the CPF Act, in section 13(4), after paragraph (a), insert —

              “(aa) section 8A;”.

Amendment of section 13B
 8. In the CPF Act, in section 13B(1) and (2), after “section 7(4)”, insert
“or 8A(4)”.

Amendment of section 24
 9. In the CPF Act, in section 24, after subsection (6), insert —

          “(7) The bankruptcy of a platform worker does not affect the payment

           of contributions from the platform remuneration of the platform worker
           in accordance with the provisions of this Act, but the payment must
           continue to be made despite the provisions of any written law and the
           portion of platform remuneration so paid is deemed not to form part of
           the platform worker’s after‑acquired property.”.

Amendment of section 58
 10. In the CPF Act, in section 58(1)(b), after “employee”, insert “or platform
worker”.

Amendment of section 58D
 11. In the CPF Act, in section 58D, replace the section heading with —

               “Investigators for offence in relation to withdrawal under
               section 16B or 16C or regulations”.

Amendment of section 61
 12. In the CPF Act, in section 61(2) —

        (a) in paragraph (a), after “section 7(5)”, insert “, 8A(5)”; and
        (b) in paragraph (b), after “section 7(3) or (5)”, insert “, 8A(3) or (5)”.

Amendment of section 61B
 13. In the CPF Act, in section 61B(1), after “section 7(3)”, insert “, 8A(3)”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         107

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 66A

 14. In the CPF Act, in section 66A, after subsection (1), insert —

            “(1A) In any proceedings relating to the recovery or non‑payment of

            contributions under section 8A, a certificate purporting to be issued by
            the Board certifying the amount of the contributions and interest due
            thereon and payable by a platform operator is prima facie evidence that
            the amount of contributions and interest so stated is due and payable by
            that platform operator as at the date of the certificate.”.

Amendment of section 68

 15. In the CPF Act, in section 68 —

        (a) in the section heading, after “employee’s”, insert “, platform
             worker’s”;

        (b) in subsections (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(a), after “an employer”, insert “, a
             platform operator”;

        (c) in subsections (1)(a), (2)(a) and (3)(b), after “the employer”, insert
             “, platform operator”;

        (d) in subsection (3)(b), after “that employer”, insert “, platform operator”;

        (e) in subsection (4)(a), after “place of employment is being sold”, insert
             “, or any interest in any place of principal business of a platform
             operator is being sold,”; and

         (f) in subsection (5), after “section 7”, insert “, 8A”.

Amendment of section 76

 16. In the CPF Act, in section 76(1)(b), replace “and employees” with
“, employees, platform operators and platform workers”.

Amendment of section 77

 17. In the CPF Act, in section 77 —

        (a) in subsection (1)(f), after “collectors”, insert “, and the platform
             remuneration of platform workers,”; and

        (b) in subsection (2)(b), after “employers”, insert “, platform operators or
             platform workers”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
108  NO. 30 OF 2024

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued
Amendment of First Schedule
 18. In the CPF Act, in the First Schedule —

        (a) in the Schedule heading, after “CONTRIBUTION”, insert
             “BY EMPLOYERS”; and

        (b) in paragraph 5(ebb)(i), after “remuneration”, insert “from
             employment”.

New Fourth Schedule
 19. In the CPF Act, after the Third Schedule, insert —

                                “FOURTH SCHEDULE

                            PLATFORM WORKER CONTRIBUTIONS

                                                                                                          Section 8A

                                                  PART 1
                                             PRELIMINARY
            Aggregate platform earnings and relevant month
              1. In this Schedule —
                  “aggregate platform earnings” or “APE”, for a relevant month,
                      means the amount of platform earnings payable in the relevant
                      month less the fixed expenses deduction amounts computed in
                      accordance with paragraph 2;
                  “combined aggregate platform earnings”, for a year, means the
                      platform earnings (both as a Group A worker or a Group B
                      worker) payable in the year less the fixed expenses deduction
                      amounts computed in accordance with paragraph 2;
                  “Group A worker” means a platform worker to whom Part 3 of this
                      Schedule applies as set out in paragraph 5;
                  “Group B worker” means a platform worker to whom Part 4 of this
                      Schedule applies as set out in paragraph 8;
                  “relevant month” means the calendar month for which
                      contributions in respect of a platform worker are being
                      determined under this Schedule;
                  “task” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Platform Workers
                      Act 2024.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         109

             FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Fixed expenses deduction amount

 2. The fixed expenses deduction amount to be deducted from a
platform worker’s platform earnings is computed as the applicable
percentage of those platform earnings.

 3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, the applicable percentage is —

        (a) where the platform earnings are determined for a single task
             performed by the platform worker in relation to a platform
             service provided for the platform operator — the percentage
             corresponding to the exclusive or primary mode of transport
             used to perform that single task, according to the table;

        (b) where the platform earnings are for 2 or more tasks
             performed by the platform worker in relation to a
             platform service provided for the platform operator and
             the platform earnings for each task cannot be determined
             singly — the lowest of the percentages corresponding to the
             exclusive or primary mode of transport used to perform
             each of the tasks, according to the table;

        (c) where the platform earnings relate to a period during which
             the platform worker performed any task or tasks in relation
             to a platform service provided for the platform operator —
             the percentage determined in accordance with
             sub‑paragraph (a) or (b), as the case may be; or

        (d) in any other case —

                  (i) where a mode of transport is recorded by the
                      platform operator — the percentage corresponding
                      to the mode of transport so recorded, according to
                      the table;

                 (ii) where 2 or more modes of transport are recorded by
                      the platform operator — the lowest percentage
                      corresponding to the modes of transport so recorded,
                      according to the table; or

                (iii) if no mode of transport is recorded by the platform
                      operator — 20%:

                    First column          Second column
                                            Percentage
                Mode of transport               60%

1. By using a motor vehicle other than a
   motorcycle

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
110  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     2. By using a personal mobility device,        35%

     power‑assisted bicycle or motorcycle

     3. On foot, by public transport or by using a  20%

     bicycle (not being power‑assisted)

     Option by platform worker born before 1 January 1995

      4.—(1) A platform worker who was born before 1 January 1995 may
     opt to be a Group A worker.

      (2) An option under sub‑paragraph (1) must be made in the form and
     manner required by the Board.

      (3) An option under sub‑paragraph (1) cannot be withdrawn.

     Application of Part 3

      5. Part 3 of this Schedule applies to a platform worker (called in this
     Schedule a Group A worker) —

             (a) who was born on or after 1 January 1995; or

             (b) who was born before 1 January 1995 and opts to be a
                  Group A worker under paragraph 4(1), subject to
                  paragraphs 6 and 7.

      6. Where a platform worker had entered into a platform work
     agreement with a platform operator before opting to be a Group A
     worker under paragraph 4(1) and the option is made —

             (a) on or before the 15th day of a calendar month — Part 4 of
                  this Schedule continues to apply to any contributions
                  payable by the platform operator and the recoverable
                  amount for that calendar month, as if the platform worker
                  were a Group B worker;

             (b) after the 15th day of a calendar month — Part 4 of this
                  Schedule continues to apply to any contributions payable by
                  the platform operator and the recoverable amount for that
                  calendar month and the next calendar month, as if the
                  platform worker were a Group B worker; or

             (c) if the Board specifies any alternative months under
                  section 8A(7)(b) — Part 4 of this Schedule continues to
                  apply to any contributions payable by the platform operator
                  and the recoverable amount for those alternative months, as
                  if the platform worker were a Group B worker.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         111

             FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

 7. Where a platform worker had opted to be a Group A worker under
paragraph 4(1) before entering into a platform work agreement with a
platform operator and the platform work agreement is entered into —

        (a) on or before the 15th day of a calendar month — Part 4 of
             this Schedule applies to any contributions payable by the
             platform operator and the recoverable amount for that
             calendar month, as if the platform worker were a Group B
             worker;

        (b) after the 15th day of a calendar month — Part 4 of this
             Schedule applies to any contributions payable by the
             platform operator and the recoverable amount for that
             calendar month and the next calendar month, as if the
             platform worker were a Group B worker; or

        (c) if the Board specifies any alternative months under
             section 8A(7)(b) — Part 4 of this Schedule continues to
             apply to any contributions payable by the platform operator
             and the recoverable amount for those alternative months, as
             if the platform worker were a Group B worker.

Application of Part 4

 8. Subject to paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, Part 4 of this Schedule applies to a
platform worker who was born before 1 January 1995 (called in this
Schedule a Group B worker).

                                     PART 2

                            PAYMENT MATTERS

Contributions according to age and rounding

 9. For the purposes of Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule —

        (a) the contributions payable according to the age of a platform
             worker specified in Part 3 or 4 of this Schedule are
             payable —

                  (i) from the first day of the month following the month
                      in which the platform worker attains that age; and

                 (ii) in the case of a platform worker who is born on
                      29 February, from the first day of March in the year
                      in which the platform worker attains that age;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
112  NO. 30 OF 2024

                  FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

             (b) the contribution payable by the platform operator is to be
                  rounded off to the nearest dollar except, where the fraction
                  of the dollar is 50 cents, is to be regarded as a dollar; and

             (c) in calculating the amount recoverable by the platform
                  operator from the platform worker’s platform remuneration,
                  a fraction of a dollar is to be ignored.

     Combined ceiling

      10. Despite Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, no contribution is payable
     by a platform operator on any part of a member’s combined aggregate
     platform earnings for any year in respect of a platform service provided
     by the platform worker for the platform operator which is in excess of
     $102,000.

     Time for payment of contribution

      11. Whether or not the platform operator has recovered the amount
     recoverable in respect of a contribution for the relevant month, the
     platform operator must pay the contributions for a relevant month to the
     Fund not later than —

             (a) 14 days after the end of the relevant month; or

             (b) the extended time approved by the Board under
                  section 8A(7)(a) (if any) not exceeding 7 days.

      12. To avoid doubt, the time specified for the purposes of
     section 8A(3)(b) is 14 days after the end of the relevant month.

     Deduction of recoverable amount

      13.—(1) For the purposes of section 8A(2), the platform operator
     may deduct the recoverable amount in respect of each platform earning
     at the rate applicable under Part 3 or 4 of this Schedule, as the case may
     be —

             (a) corresponding to the amount of the platform worker’s
                  aggregate platform earnings for the relevant month
                  computed as of the time that deduction is made; or

             (b) as if the platform worker’s aggregate platform earnings for
                  the relevant month exceeds $750.

      (2) For the purposes of section 8A(6), the platform operator may
     deduct the recoverable amount related to the platform worker’s
     aggregate platform earnings for a relevant month —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              113

             FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (a) not later than 14 days after the end of the relevant month; or

        (b) not later than 6 months after the date of payment of the
             platform earnings to which the recoverable amount
             relates — if the failure to recover the recoverable amount
             within the time specified in sub‑paragraph (a) was not
             caused by negligence on the part of the platform operator
             and the other conditions prescribed by the Board (if any) are
             met.

 (3) The platform operator must refund to the platform worker any
amount deducted in excess of the recoverable amount applicable to the
platform worker’s actual aggregate platform earnings for the relevant
month not later than 14 days after the end of the relevant month.

                                     PART 3

       GROUP A WORKER — RATES OF CONTRIBUTIONS

 14. Subject to Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and paragraphs 15 to 18,
the contributions payable by the platform operator for a Group A
worker for each relevant month following the month in which
paragraph 19 of the Fourth Schedule to the Platform Workers
Act 2024 is commenced and the amount recoverable in respect of
those contributions from the Group A worker’s platform remuneration
are as follows:

        (a) where the Group A worker is 35 years of age or below:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.315 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                     (b) 0.315 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 14% of APE 10.5% of APE

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
114                  NO. 30 OF 2024

         FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     (b) where the Group A worker is above 35 but not more than
          45 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.345 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.345 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 15% of APE 11.5% of APE

     (c) where the Group A worker is above 45 but not more than
         50 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.375 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.375 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 16% of APE 12.5% of APE

     (d) where the Group A worker is above 50 but not more than
          55 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              115

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.39 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                     (b) 0.39 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 16.5% of 13% of APE
                    APE

(e) where the Group A worker is above 55 but not more than
    60 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.39 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                     (b) 0.39 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 16.5% of 13% of APE
                    APE

(f) where the Group A worker is above 60 but not more than
    65 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
116                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.315 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.315 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 14% of APE 10.5% of APE

     (g) where the Group A worker is above 65 but not more than
          70 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.315 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 3.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.315 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 14% of APE 10.5% of APE

     (h) where the Group A worker is above 70 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                               117

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 3.5% of       NIL

exceeding $500         APE                             0.27 of the
                                                       difference
Exceeding $500 but An amount equal to the sum          between APE
not exceeding $750 of —                                and $500

                       (a) 3.5% of APE; and            9% of APE

                       (b) 0.27 of the difference
                            between APE and $500

Exceeding $750         An amount equal to 12.5% of
                       APE

 15. Subject to Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and paragraphs 16, 17
and 18, the contributions payable by the platform operator for a
Group A worker for each relevant month starting on or after 1 January
2026 and the amount recoverable in respect of those contributions from
the Group A worker’s platform remuneration are as follows:

        (a) where the Group A worker is 35 years of age or below:

First column                Second column              Third column

Aggregate platform     Contributions payable by          Amount
                                                       recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)                 month

$50 or less            NIL                             NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but     An amount equal to the sum      0.39 of the
not exceeding $750     of —                            difference
                                                       between APE
                        (a) 7% of APE; and             and $500

                        (b) 0.39 of the difference
                             between APE and $500

Exceeding $750         An amount equal to 20% of APE 13% of APE

(b) where the Group A worker is above 35 but not more than
     45 years of age:

     First column               Second column          Third column

Aggregate platform        Contributions payable by        Amount
earnings for relevant  platform operator for relevant   recoverable

    month (APE)                      month

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
118                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.42 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7% of APE; and               and $500

                          (b) 0.42 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 21% of APE 14% of APE

     (c) where the Group A worker is above 45 but not more than
         50 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.45 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7% of APE; and               and $500

                          (b) 0.45 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 22% of APE 15% of APE

     (d) where the Group A worker is above 50 but not more than
          55 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              119

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.465 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
Exceeding $750       (a) 7% of APE; and               and $500

                     (b) 0.465 of the difference      15.5% of APE
                          between APE and $500

                    An amount equal to 22.5% of
                    APE

(e) where the Group A worker is above 55 but not more than
    60 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.465 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 7% of APE; and               and $500

                     (b) 0.465 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 22.5% of 15.5% of APE
                    APE

(f) where the Group A worker is above 60 but not more than
    65 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but An amount equal to the sum         0.375 of the
not exceeding $750 of —                               difference

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
120                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Exceeding $750       (a) 7% of APE; and               between APE
                                                           and $500
                          (b) 0.375 of the difference
                               between APE and $500        12.5% of APE

                         An amount equal to 19.5% of
                         APE

     (g) where the Group A worker is above 65 but not more than
          70 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.285 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7% of APE; and               and $500

                          (b) 0.285 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 16.5% of 9.5% of APE
                         APE

     (h) where the Group A worker is above 70 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.165 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7% of APE; and               and $500

                          (b) 0.165 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              121

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 12.5% of 5.5% of APE
                    APE

 16. Subject to Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and paragraphs 17 and
18, the contributions payable by the platform operator for a Group A
worker for each relevant month starting on or after 1 January 2027 and
the amount recoverable in respect of those contributions from the
Group A worker’s platform remuneration are as follows:

        (a) where the Group A worker is 35 years of age or below:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 10.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.465 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 10.5% of APE; and            and $500

                     (b) 0.465 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 26% of APE 15.5% of APE

(b) where the Group A worker is above 35 but not more than
     45 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 10.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.495 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 10.5% of APE; and            and $500

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
122                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Exceeding $750       (b) 0.495 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

                         An amount equal to 27% of APE 16.5% of APE

     (c) where the Group A worker is above 45 but not more than
         50 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 10.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.525 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 10.5% of APE; and            and $500

                          (b) 0.525 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 28% of APE 17.5% of APE

     (d) where the Group A worker is above 50 but not more than
          55 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 10.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.54 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 10.5% of APE; and            and $500

                          (b) 0.54 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 28.5% of 18% of APE
                         APE

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              123

    FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

(e) where the Group A worker is above 55 but not more than
    60 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 10.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.54 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 10.5% of APE; and            and $500

                     (b) 0.54 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 28.5% of 18% of APE
                    APE

(f) where the Group A worker is above 60 but not more than
    65 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 10.5% of NIL

exceeding $500      APE

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.39 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 10.5% of APE; and            and $500

                     (b) 0.39 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 23.5% of 13% of APE
                    APE

(g) where the Group A worker is above 65 but not more than
     70 years of age:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
124                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 9% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.225 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 9% of APE; and               and $500

                          (b) 0.225 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 16.5% of 7.5% of APE
                         APE

     (h) where the Group A worker is above 70 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.15 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.15 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 12.5% of 5% of APE
                         APE

      17. Subject to Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and paragraph 18, the
     contributions payable by the platform operator for a Group A worker
     for each relevant month starting on or after 1 January 2028 and the
     amount recoverable in respect of those contributions from the Group A
     worker’s platform remuneration are as follows:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              125

    FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued
(a) where the Group A worker is 35 years of age or below:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 14% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.54 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 14% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.54 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 32% of APE 18% of APE

(b) where the Group A worker is above 35 but not more than
     45 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 14% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.57 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 14% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.57 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 33% of APE 19% of APE

(c) where the Group A worker is above 45 but not more than
    50 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
126                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 14% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 14% of APE; and              and $500

                          (b) 0.6 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 34% of APE 20% of APE

     (d) where the Group A worker is above 50 but not more than
          55 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 14% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 14% of APE; and              and $500

                          (b) 0.6 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 34% of APE 20% of APE

     (e) where the Group A worker is above 55 but not more than
         60 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              127

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 14% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 14% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.6 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 34% of APE 20% of APE

(f) where the Group A worker is above 60 but not more than
    65 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 13% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.39 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 13% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.39 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 26% of APE 13% of APE

(g) where the Group A worker is above 65 but not more than
     70 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 9% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but An amount equal to the sum         0.225 of the
not exceeding $750 of —                               difference

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
128                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Exceeding $750       (a) 9% of APE; and               between APE
                                                           and $500
                          (b) 0.225 of the difference
                               between APE and $500        7.5% of APE

                         An amount equal to 16.5% of
                         APE

     (h) where the Group A worker is above 70 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.15 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.15 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 12.5% of 5% of APE
                         APE

      18. Subject to Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule, the contributions
     payable by the platform operator for a Group A worker for each
     relevant month starting on or after 1 January 2029 and the amount
     recoverable in respect of those contributions from the Group A
     worker’s platform remuneration are as follows:

             (a) where the Group A worker is 35 years of age or below:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 17% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              129

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
Exceeding $750       (a) 17% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.6 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

                    An amount equal to 37% of APE 20% of APE

(b) where the Group A worker is above 35 but not more than
     45 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 17% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 17% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.6 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 37% of APE 20% of APE

(c) where the Group A worker is above 45 but not more than
    50 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 17% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 17% of APE; and              and $500

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
130                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Exceeding $750       (b) 0.6 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

                         An amount equal to 37% of APE 20% of APE

     (d) where the Group A worker is above 50 but not more than
          55 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 17% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 17% of APE; and              and $500

                          (b) 0.6 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 37% of APE 20% of APE

     (e) where the Group A worker is above 55 but not more than
         60 years of age:

     First column             Second column                Third column

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)              month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 17% of APE NIL
     exceeding $500

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.6 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 17% of APE; and              and $500

                          (b) 0.6 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 37% of APE 20% of APE

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             PLATFORM WORKERS                              131

    FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

(f) where the Group A worker is above 60 but not more than
    65 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 13% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.39 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 13% of APE; and              and $500

                     (b) 0.39 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 26% of APE 13% of APE

(g) where the Group A worker is above 65 but not more than
     70 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Aggregate platform  Contributions payable by            Amount
                                                      recoverable
earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

month (APE)              month

$50 or less         NIL                               NIL

Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 9% of APE NIL
exceeding $500

Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.225 of the
not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                      between APE
                     (a) 9% of APE; and               and $500

                     (b) 0.225 of the difference
                          between APE and $500

Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 16.5% of 7.5% of APE
                    APE

(h) where the Group A worker is above 70 years of age:

First column             Second column                Third column

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
132                  NO. 30 OF 2024

     FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Aggregate platform Contributions payable by             Amount
                                                           recoverable
     earnings for relevant platform operator for relevant

     month (APE)                         month

     $50 or less         NIL                               NIL

     Exceeding $50 but not An amount equal to 7.5% of NIL

     exceeding $500      APE

     Exceeding $500 but  An amount equal to the sum        0.15 of the
     not exceeding $750  of —                              difference
                                                           between APE
                          (a) 7.5% of APE; and             and $500

                          (b) 0.15 of the difference
                               between APE and $500

     Exceeding $750      An amount equal to 12.5% of 5% of APE
                         APE

                                          PART 4

            GROUP B WORKER — RATES OF CONTRIBUTIONS

      19. Subject to Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule, the contributions
     payable by the platform operator for a Group B worker for each
     relevant month following the month in which paragraph 19 of the
     Fourth Schedule to the Platform Workers Act 2024 is commenced and
     the amount recoverable in respect of those contributions from the
     Group B worker’s platform remuneration are as follows:

             (a) where the Group B worker is 35 years of age or below:

                    First column                   Second column
        Aggregate platform earnings for
                                             Contributions payable by
              relevant month (APE)        platform operator for relevant
                                          month and amount recoverable
     $500 or less
     Exceeding $500 but not exceeding    NIL
     $750
                                         An amount equal to 0.24 of the
     Exceeding $750                      difference between APE and
                                         $500

                                         An amount equal to 8% of APE

     (b) where the Group B worker is above 35 but not more than
          45 years of age:

                  First column                  Second column

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                                 133

FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

   Aggregate platform earnings for      Contributions payable by
         relevant month (APE)        platform operator for relevant
                                     month and amount recoverable
$500 or less
Exceeding $500 but not exceeding    NIL
$750
                                    An amount equal to 0.27 of the
Exceeding $750                      difference between APE and
                                    $500

                                    An amount equal to 9% of APE

(c) where the Group B worker is above 45 but not more
    than 50 years of age:

               First column                   Second column
   Aggregate platform earnings for
                                        Contributions payable by
         relevant month (APE)        platform operator for relevant
                                     month and amount recoverable
$500 or less
Exceeding $500 but not exceeding    NIL
$750
                                    An amount equal to 0.3 of the
Exceeding $750                      difference between APE and
                                    $500

                                    An amount equal to 10% of APE

(d) where the Group B worker is above 50 years of age:

              First column               Second column
  Aggregate platform earnings for
                                       Contributions payable by
        relevant month (APE)        platform operator for relevant
                                    month and amount recoverable
$500 or less
Exceeding $500 but not exceeding    NIL
$750
                                    An amount equal to 0.315 of the
Exceeding $750                      difference between APE and
                                    $500

                                    An amount equal to 10.5% of

                                    APE                              ”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
134  NO. 30 OF 2024

                             FIFTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 98

                    AMENDMENT OF INCOME TAX ACT 1947

Amendment of section 2

 1. In the Income Tax Act 1947 (called in this Schedule the ITA), in section 2 —

        (a) in subsection (1), after the definition of “goods”, insert —

                   “ “Group A worker” and “Group B worker” have the meanings
                         given in the Fourth Schedule to the Central Provident Fund
                         Act 1953;”;

        (b) in subsection (1), after the definition of “plantation”, insert —

                   “ “platform operator” and “platform worker” have the meanings
                         given respectively by sections 4 and 5(1) of the Platform
                         Workers Act 2024;”; and

        (c) after subsection (4), insert —

                 “(5) To avoid doubt, nothing prevents a person, by reason only

                   of being a platform worker, a Group A worker or a Group B
                   worker, from being regarded in this Act as —

                            (a) a person who carries on or exercises a trade, business,
                                 profession or vocation;

                            (b) a self‑employed person; or

                            (c) a self‑employed individual.”.

Amendment of section 10B

 2.—(1) In the ITA, in section 10B, in the section heading, after “etc.,”, insert
“from employer”.

 (2) This paragraph has effect for the year of assessment 2026 and subsequent
years of assessment.

New section 10BA

 3.—(1) In the ITA, after section 10B, insert —

               “Voluntary contributions by platform operator deemed to

                 be income

                   10BA. Despite section 13(1)(j) but subject to section 13(1)(jd),
                 where in any year, contributions have been made by a platform
                 operator to the Central Provident Fund account of any platform
                 worker under section 8A of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         135

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                 any part of such contribution, which is not obligatory under that
                 Act, is deemed to be income accruing to the platform worker for the
                 year in which the contributions are paid.”.

 (2) This paragraph has effect for the year of assessment 2026 and subsequent
years of assessment.

Amendment of section 13

 4.—(1) In the ITA, in section 13(1) —

        (a) after paragraph (jb), insert —

                      “(jc) any cash payment made on behalf of the Government

                                 to a Group A worker under a public scheme, known as
                                 the Platform Workers CPF Transition Support
                                 Scheme;”; and

        (b) after paragraph (m), insert —

                    “(ma) the income of any platform work association

                                 registered under Part 3 of the Platform Workers
                                 Act 2024 which is not derived from a trade or
                                 business carried on by the platform work
                                 association;”.

 (2) This paragraph (except sub‑paragraph (1)(b)) has effect for the year of
assessment 2026 and subsequent years of assessment.

Amendment of section 14

 5.—(1) In the ITA, in section 14(1), after paragraph (e), insert —

                     “(f) any sum contributed by a platform operator to the

                               Central Provident Fund account of any platform worker
                               engaged in activities relating to the production of the
                               income of the platform operator, the contribution of
                               which sum by the platform operator was obligatory
                               under section 8A(1) of the Central Provident Fund
                               Act 1953;”.

 (2) This paragraph has effect for the year of assessment 2026 and subsequent
years of assessment.

Amendment of section 15

 6.—(1) In the ITA, in section 15(1)(i) —

        (a) after sub‑paragraph (ii), insert —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
136  NO. 30 OF 2024

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                            “(iia) such payment made by a platform operator on

                                          behalf of a platform worker of the platform
                                          operator that is obligatory under section 8A(1)
                                          of the Central Provident Fund Act 1953;

                                   (iib) such payment made by a platform operator on
                                          behalf of a platform worker of the platform
                                          operator to the retirement account or special
                                          account of that platform worker in accordance
                                          with section 18 of the Central Provident Fund
                                          Act 1953;”; and

        (b) in sub‑paragraph (iv), after “14(1)(e),”, insert “(f),”.

 (2) This paragraph has effect for the year of assessment 2026 and subsequent
years of assessment.

Amendment of section 39

 7.—(1) In the ITA, in section 39 —

        (a) in subsection (2)(g), in the paragraph heading, after “society”, insert
             “for year of assessment 2025 or before”;

        (b) in subsection (2)(g), after “a deduction”, insert “for the year of
             assessment 2025 or an earlier year of assessment”;

        (c) in subsection (2), after paragraph (g), insert —

                “Deduction for life insurance and contributions to approved

                   pension, provident fund or society for year of
                   assessment 2026 or after

                          (ga) has —

                                      (i) made insurance on the individual’s life or, in
                                          the case of a male individual, on the life of the
                                          individual’s wife with any insurance company;

                                     (ii) made obligatory contributions to the Central
                                          Provident Fund as an employee or a Group A
                                          worker or by reason of any contract of
                                          employment;

                                    (iii) made contributions to any other approved
                                          pension or provident fund or society as an
                                          employee which are obligatory by reason of
                                          any contract of employment or of any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                            137

FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

provision in the rules or constitution of the
fund or society; or

(iv) made any contribution or suffered any
     abatement from the individual’s salary or
     pension under any Act for the time being in
     force in Singapore relating to widows’ and
     orphans’ pensions or under any approved
     scheme within the meaning of any such Act,

(ga) subject to subsections (6) to (10B), there is allowed for
      the year of assessment 2026 or a subsequent year of
      assessment a deduction of the sum of all premiums for
      such insurance and all such contributions and
      abatements paid, made or suffered by the individual
      in that year;”;

(d) in subsection (2)(h), in the paragraph heading, after “self‑employed”,
     insert “for year of assessment 2025 or before”;

(e) in subsection (2)(h), replace “2017 or a subsequent year of
    assessment” wherever it appears with “2017, 2018, 2019, 2020,
    2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 or 2025”;

(f) in subsection (2)(h), replace sub‑paragraph (i) with —

“(i) where —

(A) the sum of contributions to the Central
     Provident Fund or any other approved
     pension or provident fund or society
     under paragraph (g) and this
     paragraph exceeds $5,000 — no
     deduction is allowed under
     paragraph (g) in respect of premiums
     for life insurance; or

(B) the sum mentioned in sub‑paragraph (A)

does not exceed $5,000 — then the total

deductions                  allowable                       under

paragraph (g) and this paragraph must

not exceed $5,000;”;

(g) in subsection (2), after paragraph (h), insert —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
138  NO. 30 OF 2024

                        FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

              “Deduction for CPF contributions by self‑employed for year

                of assessment 2026 or after

                       (ha) has carried on a trade, business, profession or vocation
                             and has made contributions to the Central Provident
                             Fund, whether or not obligatory, then subject to
                             subsection (10B), there is to be allowed for the year
                             of assessment 2026 or a subsequent year of
                             assessment a deduction in respect of such
                             contributions (excluding obligatory contributions on
                             his or her income derived as a Group A worker) of an
                             amount not exceeding the lower of —

                                  (i) 37%, or such other rate as may be prescribed,
                                      of the amount of his or her income derived in
                                      the basis period for that year of assessment
                                      from his or her trade, business, profession or
                                      vocation on which contributions were
                                      obligatory under the Central Provident Fund
                                      Act 1953 (excluding any income on which
                                      contributions are obligatory as a Group A
                                      worker); or

                                 (ii) $37,740, or such other amount as may be
                                      prescribed.

                Additional deduction for voluntary CPF contributions for
                Group A worker for years of assessment 2026 to 2029

                       (hb) has derived income as a Group A worker and has made
                             voluntary contributions to the Central Provident Fund,
                             there is to be allowed for each year of
                             assessment 2026, 2027, 2028 and 2029, in addition
                             to deductions allowed under sub‑paragraphs (ga) and
                             (ha), an additional deduction (not exceeding the
                             prescribed transitional amount) for such voluntary
                             contributions (except any voluntary contribution
                             which is intended to be paid to the individual’s
                             medisave account only) which have not been allowed
                             a deduction under sub‑paragraph (ha);”;

     (h) in subsection (3A), after “employer”, insert “or platform operator”;

     (i) in subsection (10), after “(2)(g)”, insert “and (ga)”; and

     (j) after subsection (10), insert —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         139

       FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

“(10A) For the purposes of subsection (2)(ga) —

       (a) in relation to insurance mentioned in
            subsection (2)(ga)(i) —

                (i) the amount to be deducted in respect of any
                     policy securing a capital sum on death
                     (whether in conjunction with any other
                     benefit or not) must not exceed 7% of that
                     capital sum, which is exclusive of any
                     additional benefit by way of bonus, profits or
                     otherwise;

               (ii) no deduction is allowed unless the insurance
                     company has an office or a branch in
                     Singapore, but this sub‑paragraph does not
                     apply to any insurance contract entered into by
                     an individual resident in Singapore before
                     10 August 1973;

               (iii) the deductions exclude any sum which has
                     been claimed and allowed to a husband or wife
                     of the individual under subsection (2)(ga); and

               (iv) no deduction is allowed where the premiums
                     for the insurance are paid with funds standing
                     in the individual’s SRS account;

       (b) the total deductions allowable under
            subsection (2)(ga) must not exceed $5,000, except
            that where the sum of the contributions mentioned in
            sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii) exceeds $5,000, then the
            deduction allowed under subsection (2)(ga) must be
            that sum:

                (i) contributions to the Central Provident Fund
                     mentioned in subsection (2)(ga)(ii), subject to
                     subsections (6) to (10);

               (ii) contributions to any other approved pension or
                     provident fund mentioned in
                     subsection (2)(ga)(iii), subject to
                     subsections (6) to (9);

       (c) the total deduction in relation to obligatory
            contributions to the Central Provident Fund as an
            employee by reason of any contract of employment

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
140  NO. 30 OF 2024

            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                 mentioned in subsection (2)(ga)(ii) and contributions
                 mentioned in subsection (2)(ga)(iii) must not exceed
                 the contributions which would have been recoverable
                 under section 7(2) of the Central Provident Fund
                 Act 1953 had contributions been payable in respect of
                 the individual under section 7(2) of that Act to the
                 Central Provident Fund; and

            (d) no deduction is allowed in respect of any sum
                 contributed to the Central Provident Fund for any
                 period on or after 1 January 1999 by an employee who
                 holds a professional visit pass or a work pass.

     (10B) For the purposes of subsection (2)(ga) and (ha) —

            (a) where —

                     (i) the sum of contributions to any approved
                          pension or provident fund or society under
                          subsection (2)(ga) and (ha) exceeds $5,000 —
                          no deduction is allowed under
                          subsection (2)(ga) in respect of premiums for
                          life insurance; or

                    (ii) the sum mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) does
                          not exceed $5,000 — then the total deductions
                          allowable under subsection (2)(ga) and (ha)
                          must not exceed $5,000;

            (b) where the deduction allowed under subsection (2)(ga)
                 is less than $37,740 or such other amount as may be
                 prescribed — the total deductions allowable under
                 subsection (2)(ga) and (ha) in respect of contributions
                 to the Central Provident Fund or any other approved
                 pension or provident fund or society must not exceed
                 $37,740 or such other amount as may be prescribed;

            (c) where a deduction of not less than $37,740 or such
                 other amount as may be prescribed has been allowed
                 under subsection (2)(ga) in respect of contributions to
                 the Central Provident Fund or any other approved
                 pension or provident fund or society — no deduction
                 is allowed under subsection (2)(ha); and

            (d) where the total deductions allowable under
                 subsection (2)(ha) (in respect of contributions which
                 are obligatory under the Central Provident Fund

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         141

                            FIFTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                 Act 1953) and under subsection (2)(ga) (in respect of
                                 contributions to the Central Provident Fund or any
                                 other approved pension or provident fund or society)
                                 exceed $37,740 or such other amount as may be
                                 prescribed — paragraphs (b) and (c) do not apply to
                                 such contributions in excess of $37,740, or such other
                                 amount as may be prescribed, allowable under
                                 subsection (2)(ha).”.

 (2) Sub‑paragraph (1) (except sub‑paragraph (f)) has effect for the year of
assessment 2026 and subsequent years of assessment.

 (3) Sub‑paragraph (1)(f) is deemed to have effect for the years of
assessment 2023, 2024 and 2025.

Amendment of section 45G

 8. In the ITA, in section 45G(1)(b)(iv), after “Co‑operative Societies Act 1979”,
insert “, a platform work association registered under Part 3 of the Platform
Workers Act 2024”.

                            SIXTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 99

           AMENDMENT OF INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS ACT 1960

Amendment of long title

 1. In the Industrial Relations Act 1960 (called in this Schedule the IRA), in the
long title, after “employees”, insert “and of platform operators and platform
workers”.

Amendment of section 2

 2. In the IRA, in section 2 —

        (a) replace the definition of “industrial matters” with —

                   “ “industrial matters” —

                                    (a) in relation to employers and employees, means
                                         matters pertaining to the relations of employers
                                         and employees which are connected with the
                                         employment or non‑employment or the terms
                                         of employment, the transfer of employment or
                                         the conditions of work of any person; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
142  NO. 30 OF 2024

                        SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                (b) in relation to platform operators and platform
                                     workers, means matters pertaining to the
                                     relations of platform operators and platform
                                     workers which are connected with —

                                            (i) the engagement or non‑engagement of
                                                any person to provide any platform
                                                service;

                                           (ii) the terms under which any person
                                                provides any platform service; or

                                          (iii) the conditions of work of any person
                                                who provides any platform service;”;
                                                and

     (b) replace the definition of “officer” with —

                “ “officer” —

                                (a) in relation to a trade union or a branch of a trade
                                     union, includes any member of the body, by
                                     whatever name called, to which the
                                     management of the affairs of the trade union
                                     or branch is entrusted; and

                                (b) in relation to a platform work association or a
                                     branch of a platform work association, includes
                                     any member of the body, by whatever name
                                     called, to which the management of the affairs
                                     of the platform work association or branch is
                                     entrusted;

                   “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
                      Platform Workers Act 2024, and includes —

                                (a) a duly authorised manager of a platform
                                     operator; and

                                (b) a person who owns or is for the time being
                                     responsible for the management or control of
                                     the provision of a platform service;

                   “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
                      Platform Workers Act 2024;

                   “platform work association” means a platform work
                      association registered under the Platform Workers Act 2024;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         143

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
                         Platform Workers Act 2024;”.

Amendment of section 6

 3. In the IRA, in section 6 —

        (a) in subsections (1), (2), (3)(a) and (4)(a), replace “employer panel”
             with “business panel”;

        (b) in subsections (1), (2), (3)(b) and (4)(b), replace “employee panel”
             with “worker panel”;

        (c) in subsection (3)(a), after “employers”, insert “or a platform work
             association of platform operators”;

        (d) in subsection (3)(b), after “employees”, insert “or a platform work
             association of platform workers”;

        (e) in subsection (4)(a), replace “subsection (3)” with “subsection (3)(a)”;

         (f) in subsection (4)(b), replace “subsection (3)” with “subsection (3)(b)”;
             and

        (g) in subsection (5), after “employees”, insert “or platform work
             associations of platform operators or platform workers”.

Amendment of section 7

 4. In the IRA, in section 7 —

        (a) in subsections (1) and (2), replace “employer panel” with “business
             panel”;

        (b) in subsection (1), after “employee”, insert “or a platform worker”;

        (c) replace subsection (3) with —

                 “(3) A person who is —

                            (a) an employer, a director of a company which is an
                                 employer or employed by a trade union of employers
                                 or association of employers; or

                            (b) a platform operator, a director of a company which is a
                                 platform operator or employed by a platform work
                                 association of platform operators or an association of
                                 platform operators,

                   shall not be eligible to be a member of the worker panel.”; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
144  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued
        (d) in subsection (4)(d), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work

             association”.

Amendment of section 11
 5. In the IRA, in section 11 —

        (a) in subsections (1)(a) and (2), after “trade unions of employees”, insert
             “or platform work associations of platform workers (as the case may
             be)”;

        (b) in subsections (1)(a) and (2), replace “employee panel” with “worker
             panel”;

        (c) in subsections (1)(b), (2) and (3)(a), after “employers”, insert
             “or platform operators”;

        (d) in subsections (1)(b) and (2), replace “employer panel” with “business
             panel”; and

        (e) in subsection (3)(a), after “majority of employees”, insert “, or
             platform work associations of platform workers who represent the
             majority of platform workers (as the case may be),”.

Amendment of section 25
 6. In the IRA, in section 25(9), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
association”.

Amendment of section 29
 7. In the IRA, in section 29, after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
association”.

Amendment of section 48
 8. In the IRA, in section 48(2), delete “in Malay, English, Chinese and Tamil”.

Amendment of section 50
 9. In the IRA, in section 50(1), delete “in Malay, English, Chinese and Tamil,”.

Replacement of section 53
 10. In the IRA, replace section 53 with —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         145

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

          “Recovery of wages or earnings under award

              53.—(1) An employee bound by an award may recover in any court
            of competent jurisdiction any amount which the employee is entitled to
            be paid by way of wages or otherwise in accordance with the award.

              (2) A platform worker bound by an award may recover in any court of
            competent jurisdiction any amount which the platform worker is
            entitled to be paid by way of earnings (within the meaning given by
            section 2 of the Platform Workers Act 2024) or otherwise in accordance
            with the award.”.

Amendment of section 55

 11. In the IRA, in section 55 —

        (a) in subsection (1), replace paragraph (a) with —

                      “(a) enter without previous notice at any hour of the day or

                                 night —

                                      (i) all places of employment where the inspecting
                                          officer has reason to believe that an employee
                                          entitled to the benefit of an award is employed;
                                          or

                                     (ii) all places occupied by a platform operator
                                          bound by an award,

                            (a) and inspect any work, material, machinery, appliance
                                 or article therein; and”;

        (b) in subsection (2)(b), replace “his representative” with “platform
             operator or a representative of the employer or platform operator (as
             the case may be)”;

        (c) in subsection (3)(a) and (b), after “an employee”, insert “or a platform
             worker (as the case may be)”;

        (d) in subsection (3)(a), after “his employer”, insert “, or to the platform
             worker or his platform operator,”; and

        (e) in subsection (3)(b), after “employer”, insert “or platform operator (as
             the case may be)”.

Amendment of section 56

 12. In the IRA, in section 56(b), after “trade union”, insert “, platform work
association”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
146  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 57

 13. In the IRA, in section 57 —

        (a) in subsection (2)(a) and (b), after “trade union”, insert “or platform
             work association”;

        (b) in subsection (2)(b), after “employer”, insert “, a platform operator”;

        (c) replace subsection (5) with —

                 “(5) Where a Court punishes as contempt a failure by a person

                   to comply with an order of the Court, that person shall, during a
                   period of 2 years from the date on which the punishment is
                   imposed (or any lesser period that the Court may determine), be
                   ineligible —

                            (a) to be nominated for election as —

                                      (i) an officer of a trade union, branch of a trade
                                          union or federation; or

                                     (ii) an officer of a platform work association or
                                          branch of a platform work association; or

                            (b) to act as an officer mentioned in paragraph (a)(i) or
                                 (ii).”;

        (d) in subsection (6), replace “an officer of a trade union, or a branch of a
             trade union or a federation of trade unions” with “an officer mentioned
             in subsection (5)(a)(i) or (ii)”;

        (e) in subsection (6)(b), replace “for a second or subsequent offence” with
             “if the person is a repeat offender,”; and

         (f) after subsection (6), insert —

                 “(7) For the purposes of subsection (6)(b), “repeat offender”, in

                   relation to an offence under subsection (6), means a person
                   who —

                            (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
                                 subsection (6); and

                            (b) has been convicted, or found guilty, of an offence
                                 under subsection (6) on at least one other occasion
                                 (whether before, on or after the date of
                                 commencement of paragraph 13 of the
                                 Sixth Schedule to the Platform Workers Act 2024).”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         147

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 58

 14. In the IRA, in section 58 —

        (a) after subsection (1), insert —

                 “(1A) If it appears to a Court that a number of members of a

                   platform work association sufficiently large to form a substantial
                   part of its membership refuse to provide a platform service in
                   accordance with an award, the Court may, subject to such
                   conditions as it thinks fit, by order cancel or suspend for such
                   period as it thinks fit all or any of the terms of the award so far as
                   the award applies to or is in favour of the platform work
                   association or its members.”; and

        (b) in subsections (2) and (3), after “the trade union”, insert “or platform
             work association (as the case may be)”.

Amendment of section 59

 15. In the IRA, in section 59(2), after “trade union”, insert “, platform work
association”.

Amendment of section 61

 16. In the IRA, in section 61(g), after “dismissed employee”, insert “or the
resumption of a platform worker’s provision of a platform service for a platform
operator (as the case may be)”.

Amendment of section 62

 17. In the IRA, in section 62(2), replace “any person or trade union without the
consent of that person or trade union” with “any person, trade union or platform
work association without the consent of that person, trade union or platform work
association, as the case may be”.

Amendment of section 63

 18. In the IRA, in section 63(2), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
association (as the case may be)”.

Amendment of section 64

 19. In the IRA, in section 64 —

        (a) in subsection (1)(a), delete “or” at the end;

        (b) in subsection (1), after paragraph (a), insert —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
148  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

                     “(aa) being a platform work association, may be represented

                                 by an officer of the platform work association or, in
                                 the case of a platform work association of platform
                                 workers, by an officer of the platform work
                                 association or an industrial relations officer selected
                                 by the platform work association; or”;

        (c) in subsection (1)(b), after “not being a trade union”, insert “or platform
             work association”;

        (d) in subsection (1)(b)(ii), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association”;

        (e) replace subsection (3) with —

                 “(3) In this section, “officer” —

                            (a) in relation to a trade union, includes for the purposes
                                 of any proceedings before the Court a person
                                 appointed by the body, by whatever name called, to
                                 which the management of the affairs of the trade union
                                 is entrusted, to represent the trade union in those
                                 proceedings; or

                            (b) in relation to a platform work association, includes for
                                 the purposes of any proceedings before the Court a
                                 person appointed by the body, by whatever name
                                 called, to which the management of the affairs of the
                                 platform work association is entrusted, to represent
                                 the platform work association in those proceedings.”;
                                 and

         (f) in subsection (4), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association”.

Amendment of section 67

 20. In the IRA, in section 67(1)(b), after “employee”, insert “or platform
worker”.

Amendment of section 77

 21. In the IRA, in section 77(5) —

        (a) after “any trade union”, insert “or platform work association”; and

        (b) after “the trade union”, insert “or platform work association in
             question”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                             149

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued
New Part 8A
 22. In the IRA, after Part 8, insert —

                   “PART 8A

      APPLICATION OF ACT TO PLATFORM OPERATORS,
         PLATFORM WORKERS AND PLATFORM WORK
                               ASSOCIATIONS

                          Division 1 — Preliminary

Application of Part 3 and Parts 5 to 9, etc.

 77A.—(1) Part 3 and Parts 5 to 9 apply in relation to a platform
operator, platform worker and platform work association as they apply
in relation to an employer, an employee and a trade union, with the
following modifications:

        (a) the sections in the second column of the following table
             (called the applicable section) apply in lieu of the sections in
             the first column (called the replaced section), and any
             reference in any other written law to a replaced section is to
             be read as a reference to the applicable section:

  First column                 Second column
Replaced section             Applicable section

(i) 35(2) to (11)                                      77B

(ii) 42                                                77C

(iii) 50                                               77D

(iv) 51                                                77E

(v) 52                                                 77F

(vi) 54                                                77G

(vii) 80                                               77H

(viii) 82                                              77I

(ix) 83                                                77J;

(b) in sections 17(1), (2), (4) and (5), 18(1), 19, 20, 21, 26, 27,
     31(a), 38, 39, 40(1), 41, 43, 44, 45 and 48, any reference in
     the first column of the following table is to be read as the
     corresponding reference in the second column of the table:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
150  NO. 30 OF 2024

     SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

          First column                  Second column
            Reference             Corresponding reference
                                 a platform operator
      (i) an employer
                                 a platform worker
     (ii) an employee            a platform work association
     (iii) a trade union
                                 a platform work association
     (iv) a trade union of       of platform workers
           employees
                                 a representative of a
     (v) a representative of an  platform operator
           employer
                                 a representative of a
     (vi) a representative of a  platform work association;
           trade union

             (c) the following provisions do not apply to and in relation to
                  platform operators, platform workers and platform work
                  associations:

             (c) Sections 16(a), 17(3) and (7), 18(2), 25(6), 31(b), (c) and
                      (d), 33, 34(1)(b) and (c) and (2), 36, 79(2) and 81.

      (2) Parts 4 and 4A do not apply to and in relation to platform
     operators, platform workers and platform work associations.

       Division 2 — Provisions relating to awards for platform workers
                                 and platform operators

     Disputes relating to termination of platform work agreements

      77B.—(1) A Court is not to consider a dispute relating to the
     termination of a platform work agreement or make an award relating to
     the resumption of a platform worker’s provision of a platform service
     for a platform operator except in circumstances arising out of a
     contravention of section 77I.

      (2) Despite subsection (1), where a platform worker considers that his
     platform work agreement with his platform operator has been
     terminated without just cause or excuse by that platform operator, in
     circumstances other than those arising out of a contravention of
     section 77I, he may, within one month of such termination, make,
     through his platform work association, written representations to the
     Minister to resume providing a platform service for that platform
     operator.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         151

               SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) The Minister may, before making a decision on any such
representations, by writing under his hand request the Commissioner
to inquire into the termination and report whether in the
Commissioner’s opinion the termination is without just cause or
excuse.

 (4) If the Minister decides to deal with the representations himself,
the Minister must, before making a decision on such representation,
give an opportunity to the platform operator to make written
representations as to why the platform operator considered the
termination of the platform agreement with the platform worker to
be justified.

 (5) If, after considering the representations of the platform work
association and of the platform operator (if any) and any report made by
the Commissioner under subsection (3), the Minister is satisfied that the
platform work agreement has been terminated without just cause or
excuse, the Minister may, despite any rule of law or agreement to the
contrary, direct the platform operator —

        (a) to allow the platform worker to resume providing a platform
             service for the platform operator and to pay the platform
             worker an amount that is equivalent to the earnings that the
             platform worker would have earned had his platform work
             agreement not been terminated by the platform operator; or

        (b) to pay such amount of earnings as compensation as may be
             determined by the Minister.

 (6) The platform operator must comply with the direction of the
Minister under subsection (5).

 (7) The decision of the Minister on any representations made under
this section is final and conclusive and is not to be challenged in any
court or in a Court established under this Act.

 (8) Any direction of the Minister under subsection (5) operates as a
bar to any action for damages by the platform worker in any court in
respect of the wrongful termination of the platform work agreement.

 (9) A platform operator that fails to comply with the direction of the
Minister under subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction by a District Court to a fine not exceeding $10,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (10) Where an amount to be paid under subsection (5) is not paid in
accordance with the direction of the Minister and the platform operator

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
152  NO. 30 OF 2024

                    SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

     has been convicted of an offence under subsection (9), the amount, or
     so much thereof as remains unpaid, is recoverable by a District Court as
     if it were a fine and the amount so recovered must be paid to the
     platform worker entitled under the direction.

     Contents of award

      77C. In making an award in relation to a trade dispute relating to
     platform operators and platform workers, a Court —

             (a) is not to be restricted to the specific relief claimed by the
                  parties or to the demands made by the parties in the course
                  of the trade dispute but may include in the award any matter
                  or thing which it thinks expedient for the purpose of settling
                  the trade dispute or of preventing further trade disputes and
                  may in fixing earnings or other remuneration give effect to
                  its decision by prescribing deductibles, commission rates or
                  fees to be paid by platform operators to platform workers or
                  by such other prescription as it considers appropriate; and

             (b) may include provisions requiring a platform operator bound
                  by the award to keep records relating to platform workers
                  entitled to the benefit of the award and prescribing the form
                  of such records and the information to be recorded.

     Exhibition of award

      77D.—(1) A platform operator bound by an award must cause true
     copies of the award and of all orders varying the award, or true copies
     of the award as varied from time to time, to be —

             (a) exhibited and kept exhibited —

                       (i) at or near the entrance to any premises of the
                           platform operator; and

                      (ii) at any other place to which platform workers of the
                           platform operator have access as the award may
                           specify,

             (a) in such a position as to be conspicuous to and easily read by
                  the platform workers; and

             (b) published and made available to the platform workers, in
                  any manner or by any means as the award may specify that
                  is conspicuous to and easily read by the platform workers.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         153

               SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) A platform operator that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a Magistrate’s Court
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.

Contracts contrary to award

 77E. A platform operator or a person acting as an agent for a platform
operator that makes a contract or an agreement for a platform worker to
provide a platform service for the platform operator on terms and
conditions less favourable to the platform worker than the terms and
conditions of an award binding on the platform operator and platform
worker shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by
a District Court to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Breach of award

 77F.—(1) Any platform work association or person bound by an
award that has committed any breach or non‑observance of any term of
an award shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
by a Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding —

        (a) in the case of a platform work association or platform
             operator — $5,000;

        (b) in the case of an officer of a platform work association —
             $1,000; and

        (c) in any other case — $1,000.

 (2) Where in any proceedings against a platform operator under this
section it appears to the Magistrate’s Court that a platform worker who
has provided a platform service for that platform operator has not been
paid an amount which the platform worker is entitled to be paid as
earnings or otherwise in accordance with an award, that Court may —

        (a) order the platform operator to pay to the platform worker
             the amount due to that platform worker either in a lump sum
             or by instalments; and

        (b) fix the date or dates on which the lump sum or instalments
             are to be paid.

 (3) Where an amount or instalment ordered to be paid under
subsection (2) is not paid on the date fixed by the order, the amount
or so much of that amount as then remains unpaid is immediately

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
154  NO. 30 OF 2024

                    SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

     recoverable as if it were a fine and the amount so recovered must be
     paid to the platform worker entitled under the order.

     Commissioner’s power to inquire into complaints

      77G.—(1) The Commissioner may —

             (a) inquire into and decide any dispute between a platform
                  worker and a platform operator bound by an award as to the
                  platform worker’s entitlement to any payment by way of
                  earnings or otherwise in accordance with the award; and

             (b) make an order in the prescribed form for the payment by
                  either party of such sum of money as the Commissioner
                  considers just without limitation of the amount thereof.

      (2) The provisions of the Employment Act 1968 relating to appeals
     from decisions and orders of the Commissioner under Part 15 of that
     Act and the mode of procedure for the making and hearing of claims
     under that Part and the joining of claims, subject to the modifications
     set out in subsection (11), shall apply to decisions, orders and claims
     made under this section.

      (3) No fees are to be charged by the Commissioner in respect of
     processes issued by the Commissioner under this section.

      (4) All orders made by the Commissioner, even though the same may
     in respect of the amount or value be in excess of its ordinary
     jurisdiction, are to be enforced by a District Court in the same manner
     as a judgment of that Court and all necessary processes may be served
     by that Court on behalf of the Commissioner.

      (5) No sale of immovable property for the purposes of such
     enforcement is to be ordered except by the General Division of the
     High Court.

      (6) If any person complains to the Commissioner that an order made
     under subsection (1) has not been complied with —

             (a) the Commissioner must take such action as is appropriate
                  for the enforcement of the order; and

             (b) no court fees or deposits are chargeable in the first instance
                  in respect of the enforcement of the order but the same are to
                  be paid by the person against whom the order is enforced.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         155

               SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (7) Where —

        (a) any person complains to the Minister, the Parliamentary
             Secretary to the Minister or to the Commissioner that a
             platform work association or person bound by an award has
             committed a breach or non‑observance of any term of an
             award;

        (b) the Minister, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister or
             the Commissioner has reason to believe that such a breach
             or non‑observance has occurred; or

        (c) the Minister, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister or
             the Commissioner wishes to inquire into any matter for
             which provision is made by an award or any dispute as to
             such matter,

the Minister, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister or the
Commissioner may summon any other person who he has reason to
believe can give information respecting the matter.

 (8) The person summoned under subsection (7) is legally bound to
attend at the time and place specified in the summons and to answer
truthfully all questions which the Minister, the Parliamentary Secretary
to the Minister or the Commissioner may put to that person.

 (9) Any person who in any way wilfully obstructs the service of or
obedience to such summons, and any person summoned who neglects
to attend as required by such summons, and any person who commits in
respect of any such inquiry or complaint any offence described in
Chapter 10 of the Penal Code 1871 shall be punished as provided in that
Chapter.

 (10) If, upon inquiry under subsection (7), the Commissioner is
informed by the Minister or by the Parliamentary Secretary to the
Minister or is of the opinion that a breach or non‑observance of any
term of an award has been committed, the Commissioner has the same
powers to institute proceedings as he has under Part 15 of the
Employment Act 1968 upon inquiry under that Part and the provisions
of that Act relating to proceedings instituted by him under that Act,
subject to the modifications in subsection (11), apply to and in relation
to proceedings instituted by him under this subsection.

 (11) For the purposes of subsections (2) and (10), in the provisions of
the Employment Act 1968 mentioned in those subsections, any
reference mentioned in the first column of the following table is to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
156  NO. 30 OF 2024

                    SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

     be read as the corresponding reference in the second column of the
     table:

     First column     Second column

     Reference        Corresponding reference

     (a) an employer  a platform operator

     (b) an employee  a platform worker

     (c) a member of a trade union a member of a platform work
                                            association

     (d) an officer of a trade union an officer of a platform work
                                             association.

                                 Division 3 — Offences

     Platform operators not to discriminate against members of
     platform work associations

      77H. Any platform operator that, in the engagement of persons to
     provide a platform service for the platform operator, discriminates
     against a person by reason of the circumstance that the person —

             (a) is or proposes to become an officer or a member of a
                  platform work association or an association that has applied
                  to be registered as a platform work association;

             (b) will, if engaged, be entitled to the benefit of a collective
                  agreement or an award; or

             (c) has appeared as a witness, or has given any evidence, in any
                  proceeding under this Act,

     shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a
     District Court to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
     term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

     Injuring platform worker on account of industrial action

      77I.—(1) A platform operator must not —

             (a) terminate or threaten to terminate a platform work
                  agreement with a platform worker;

             (b) cease or threaten to cease assigning to or facilitating for a
                  platform worker, or prevent or threaten to prevent a
                  platform worker from receiving or obtaining, any tasks to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         157

               SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

             be performed in the provision of a platform service for the
             platform operator; or

        (c) reduce, restrict or limit or threaten to reduce, restrict or
             limit —

                  (i) the earnings of a platform worker from providing a
                      platform service for the platform operator;

                 (ii) the nature, quantity or value of any benefits that a
                      platform worker receives or may receive, or is or
                      may be entitled to, in relation to the platform
                      worker’s provision of a platform service for the
                      platform operator; or

                (iii) the platform worker’s ability to receive or accrue
                      any earnings mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or any
                      benefits mentioned in sub‑paragraph (ii),

by reason of the circumstance that the platform worker —

        (d) is, or proposes to become, an officer or a member of a
             platform work association or an association that has applied
             to be registered as a platform work association;

        (e) is entitled to the benefit of a collective agreement or an
             award;

         (f) has appeared or proposes to appear as a witness, or has
             given or proposes to give any evidence, in any proceedings
             under this Act;

        (g) being a member of a platform work association which is
             seeking to improve working conditions, is dissatisfied with
             such working conditions; or

        (h) is a member of a platform work association which has
             served a notice under section 18(1), as modified by
             section 77A, or which is a party to negotiations under this
             Act or to a trade dispute which has been notified to the
             Registrar in accordance with Part 3, as modified by
             section 77A.

 (2) A platform operator that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a District Court to a
fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
158  NO. 30 OF 2024

                    SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

      (3) Where a platform operator has been convicted of an offence
     punishable under subsection (2), the District Court by which the
     platform operator is convicted may —

             (a) order that the platform operator pay to the platform worker
                  the amount of any earnings lost by the platform worker; and

             (b) direct that the platform operator —

                       (i) where the platform operator has terminated the
                           platform work agreement with the platform
                           worker — enter into a new platform work
                           agreement with the platform worker; or

                      (ii) in any other case — cease or not take any action
                           mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) specified
                           in the charge against the platform operator.

      (4) Where an amount or instalment ordered to be paid under
     subsection (3) is not paid on the date fixed by the order, the amount
     or so much of that amount as then remains unpaid is immediately
     recoverable as if it were a fine and the amount so recovered must be
     paid to the platform worker entitled under the order.

      (5) A platform operator that fails to comply with a direction given
     under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
     conviction by a District Court to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

      (6) Nothing in this section is to be construed as prohibiting a Court
     from inquiring into the termination of a platform work agreement
     between a platform operator and a platform worker where the
     termination is allegedly in contravention of this section, or the
     resumption of the provision of a platform service by that platform
     worker for that platform operator, before any proceedings have
     commenced in a District Court.

     Injuring platform operator on account of industrial action

      77J. A platform worker who ceases to provide a platform service for
     a platform operator by reason of the circumstance that the platform
     operator —

             (a) is an officer or a member of a platform work association or
                  an association that has applied for registration as a platform
                  work association;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         159

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

                     (b) is entitled to the benefit of a collective agreement or an
                          award; or

                     (c) has appeared as a witness, or has given any evidence, in a
                          proceeding under this Act,

            shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction by a
            Magistrate’s Court to a penalty not exceeding $1,000.”.

Amendment of section 78

 23. In the IRA, in section 78 —

        (a) in subsection (1)(a), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association”;

        (b) in subsection (1)(b), after “trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association, as the case may be”;

        (c) in subsection (2), after “a trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association”;

        (d) in subsection (2), after “the affairs of the trade union”, insert
             “or platform work association”; and

        (e) in subsection (2), replace “the trade union shall” with “the trade union
             or platform work association (as the case may be) shall”.

Amendment of section 79

 24. In the IRA, in section 79 —

        (a) in the section heading, after “trade unions”, insert “or platform work
             associations”; and

        (b) in subsection (1), replace paragraphs (a) and (b) with —

                      “(a) not to become —

                                      (i) a member or officer of a trade union or an
                                          association that has applied to be registered as
                                          a trade union; or

                                     (ii) a member or officer of a platform work
                                          association or an association that has applied
                                          to be registered as a platform work
                                          association; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
160  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           SIXTH SCHEDULE — continued

                            (b) to cease to be —

                                      (i) a member or officer of a trade union or an
                                          association that has applied to be registered as
                                          a trade union; or

                                     (ii) a member or officer of a platform work
                                          association or an association that has applied
                                          to be registered as a platform work
                                          association,”.

Amendment of section 84

 25. In the IRA, in section 84 —

        (a) in subsection (1), replace “82” with “77I, 77J, 82”; and

        (b) in subsection (2), replace “79” with “77I, 77J, 79”.

Amendment of section 87

 26. In the IRA, in section 87(2), after “employer”, insert “, or a platform work
association of platform workers may obtain recognition from a platform
operator,”.

                          SEVENTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 100

                AMENDMENT OF TRADE DISPUTES ACT 1941
Amendment of long title
 1. In the Trade Disputes Act 1941 (called in this Schedule the TDA), in the long
title, after “trade disputes”, insert “and work disputes”.

Amendment of section 2
 2. In the TDA, in section 2 —

        (a) replace the definition of “industrial action” with —
                   “ “industrial action” means —
                                    (a) any act or omission by a body of persons
                                         employed in any trade or industry, acting in
                                         combination or under a common
                                         understanding, which would result in any
                                         limitation or restriction on, or delay in, the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         161

                SEVENTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                performance of any duties connected with their
                                employment;

                           (b) any act or omission by a body of persons
                                providing any platform service, acting in
                                combination or under a common
                                understanding, which would result in —

                                       (i) the limitation or restriction in the
                                           performance of tasks by platform
                                           workers in relation to their provision
                                           of that platform service; or

                                      (ii) the delay in the performance of tasks
                                           by platform workers in relation to their
                                           provision of that platform service; or

                            (c) a strike;”;

(b) in the definition of “injury”, after “employment”, insert “, provision of
     any platform service”;

(c) replace the definition of “lockout” with —

           “ “lockout” —

                           (a) in relation to an employer, means the closing of
                                a place of employment or the suspension of
                                work, or the refusal by the employer to
                                continue to employ any number of persons
                                employed by him in consequence of a trade
                                dispute, done with a view to compelling those
                                persons, or to aid another employer in
                                compelling persons employed by him, to
                                accept terms or conditions of or affecting
                                employment; or

                           (b) in relation to a platform operator, has the
                                meaning given by section 19 of the Platform
                                Workers Act 2024;”;

(d) after the definition of “maliciously”, insert —

           “ “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
                Platform Workers Act 2024;

              “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
                 Platform Workers Act 2024;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
162  NO. 30 OF 2024

                     SEVENTH SCHEDULE — continued

                  “platform work association” and “registered platform work
                      association” have the meanings given by section 19 of the
                      Platform Workers Act 2024;

                  “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
                      Platform Workers Act 2024;

                  “strike” means the cessation of work —

                                (a) by a body of persons employed in any trade or
                                     industry acting in combination, or a concerted
                                     refusal, or a refusal under a common
                                     understanding of a number of persons who
                                     are, or who have been so employed, to continue
                                     to work or to accept employment; or

                                (b) by a body of platform workers providing any
                                     platform service acting in combination, or a
                                     concerted refusal, or a refusal under a common
                                     understanding, of any number of platform
                                     workers who are or have been providing any
                                     platform service for a platform operator to
                                     continue to do so or accept tasks in relation to
                                     the provision of that platform service for the
                                     platform operator;”;

     (e) in the definition of “trade dispute”, replace the full‑stop at the end with
         a semi‑colon; and

     (f) after the definition of “trade dispute”, insert —

               “ “work dispute” means any dispute between platform workers
                     and one or more platform operators, between platform
                     workers or between platform operators, which is connected
                     with —

                                (a) whether any person is engaged or otherwise
                                     allowed as a platform worker to provide any
                                     platform service; or

                                (b) the terms under which or the conditions in
                                     which any platform worker provides a platform
                                     service.”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         163

                         SEVENTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 3

 3. In the TDA, in section 3 —

        (a) in subsection (1), replace paragraph (a) with —

                      “(a) it has any object other than the furtherance of —

                                      (i) a trade dispute within the trade or industry in
                                          which the persons taking part in the industrial
                                          action are engaged; or

                                     (ii) a work dispute in respect of the platform
                                          service which the persons taking part in the
                                          industrial action provide for the platform
                                          operator involved in that work dispute;”;

        (b) in subsections (1)(b) and (2)(b), after “trade dispute”, insert “or work
             dispute”; and

        (c) in subsection (2), replace paragraph (a) with —

                      “(a) it has any object other than the furtherance of —

                                      (i) a trade dispute within the trade or industry in
                                          which the employers locking out are engaged;
                                          or

                                     (ii) a work dispute in respect of the platform
                                          service which the platform operators locking
                                          out are engaged in providing through the
                                          platform workers involved in that work
                                          dispute;”.

Amendment of section 8

 4. In the TDA, in section 8 —

        (a) in subsection (1), after “any trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association”;

        (b) in subsection (1), replace “the union” with “the trade union or platform
             work association, as the case may be”;

        (c) in subsection (2), after “registered trade union” wherever it appears,
             insert “or registered platform work association”; and

        (d) in subsection (2), after “the trade union”, insert “or platform work
             association (as the case may be)”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
164  NO. 30 OF 2024

                         SEVENTH SCHEDULE — continued
Amendment of section 10
 5. In the TDA, in section 10, after “trade dispute”, insert “, or acting on his or
their own behalf or on behalf of a platform work association or of an individual
platform operator in contemplation or furtherance of a work dispute,”.

Amendment of section 11
 6. In the TDA, in section 11, after “hiring”, insert “, or a platform work
agreement within the meaning given by section 2 of the Platform Workers
Act 2024,”.

Amendment of section 15
 7. In the TDA, in section 15 —

        (a) in the section heading, after “trade disputes”, insert “or work
             disputes”;

        (b) in subsection (1), after “employees”, insert “, or a work dispute
             between platform operators and platform workers,”; and

        (c) in subsection (2), after “trade dispute”, insert “or work dispute”.

                           EIGHTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 101

                  AMENDMENT OF TRADE UNIONS ACT 1940

Amendment of section 2

 1. In the Trade Unions Act 1940 (called in this Schedule the TUA), in
section 2 —

        (a) before the definition of “delegate”, insert —

                   “ “combined federation” means a federation comprising 2 or more
                         trade unions and one or more platform work associations;”;

        (b) in the definition of “delegate”, in paragraph (b), after “constituent trade
             unions”, insert “or, in the case of a combined federation, any
             constituent trade union or constituent platform work association”;

        (c) in the definition of “federation”, after “trade unions”, insert “, and
             includes a combined federation”;

        (d) after the definition of “officer”, insert —

                   “ “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
                         Platform Workers Act 2024;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         165

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      “platform work association” has the meaning given by
                         section 19 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                      “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
                         Platform Workers Act 2024;”;

        (e) after the definition of “registered office”, insert —

                   “ “registered platform work association” means a platform work
                         association registered under the Platform Workers
                         Act 2024;”; and

         (f) in the definition of “requisite consent”, in paragraph (b), after
             “constituent trade unions”, insert “and, in the case of a combined
             federation, also the constituent platform work associations”.

Amendment of section 10

 2. In the TUA, in section 10 —

        (a) after subsection (1), insert —

                 “(1A) Where a federation applies for registration, the Registrar

                   may register the federation if the Registrar is satisfied that, in
                   addition to the matters in subsection (1), the federation is not
                   likely to be used against the interests of —

                            (a) the workmen in any trade, occupation or industry with
                                 which any constituent trade union is connected; and

                            (b) in the case of a combined federation, also the platform
                                 workers providing any platform service with which
                                 any constituent platform work association is
                                 connected.”; and

        (b) in subsection (2), after “subsection (1)”, insert “or (1A)”.

Amendment of section 14

 3. In the TUA, in section 14 —

        (a) renumber the section as subsection (1) of that section; and

        (b) after subsection (1), insert —

                 “(2) In addition to subsection (1), the Registrar may refuse to

                   register any federation if the Registrar —

                            (a) is of the opinion that the federation is likely to be used
                                 against the interests of —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
166  NO. 30 OF 2024

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                      (i) the workmen in any trade, occupation or
                                          industry with which any constituent trade
                                          union is connected; or

                                     (ii) where the applicant is a combined federation,
                                          the workmen mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i)
                                          or the platform workers providing any
                                          platform service with which any constituent
                                          platform work association is connected or
                                          both; or

                            (b) is satisfied that there is an existing federation
                                 registered that comprises —

                                      (i) one or more trade unions in respect of the
                                          workmen in a particular trade, occupation or
                                          industry with which any constituent trade
                                          union of the applicant is connected; or

                                     (ii) where the applicant is a combined federation,
                                          also one or more platform work associations in
                                          respect of the platform workers providing a
                                          particular platform service with which any
                                          constituent platform work association of the
                                          applicant is connected.”.

Amendment of section 15

 4. In the TUA, in section 15, after subsection (1), insert —

          “(1A) In addition to subsection (1), a certificate of registration of a

           federation may be cancelled or withdrawn by the Registrar if the
           Registrar —

                   (a) is of the opinion that the federation is being used or is likely
                         to be used against the interests of —

                             (i) the workmen in any trade, occupation or industry
                                  with which any constituent trade union is connected;
                                  or

                            (ii) in the case of a combined federation, the workmen
                                  mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) or the platform
                                  workers providing any platform service with which
                                  any constituent platform work association is
                                  connected or both; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         167

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued

                   (b) having regard to the matters in subsection (1B), is of the
                         opinion that it is necessary in the interests of the persons
                         mentioned in subsection (1B)(a)(i) or (ii) to cancel or
                         withdraw the certificate of registration of the combined
                         federation.

            (1B) The matters mentioned in subsection (1A)(b) are the following:

                   (a) that a federation comprises —

                             (i) one or more trade unions in respect of the workmen in
                                  a particular trade, occupation or industry; and

                            (ii) in the case of a combined federation, also one or more
                                  platform work associations in respect of the platform
                                  workers providing a particular platform service;

                   (b) the existence of any other federation which comprises —

                             (i) one or more trade unions in respect of the workmen in
                                  the same trade, occupation or industry mentioned in
                                  paragraph (a)(i); or

                            (ii) in the case of a combined federation, also one or more
                                  platform work associations in respect of the platform
                                  workers providing the same platform service
                                  mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii).”.

Amendment of section 22

 5. In the TUA, in section 22 —

        (a) renumber the section as subsection (1) of that section; and

        (b) after subsection (1), insert —

                 “(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any registered trade union

                   which is a combined federation.”.

Amendment of section 27

 6. In the TUA, in section 27 —

        (a) in subsections (1) and (2), after “registered trade union”, insert “(other
             than a registered trade union which is a combined federation)”;

        (b) after subsection (2), insert —

                 “(2A) A registered trade union which is a combined federation

                   shall not commence, promote, organise or finance any strike or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
168  NO. 30 OF 2024

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued

                   any form of industrial action affecting the whole or any section of
                   its members.”; and

        (c) after subsection (3), insert —

                 “(3A) A registered trade union which is a combined federation

                   which, and every member of its executive who, contravenes
                   subsection (2A) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
                   conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000.”.

Amendment of section 28

 7. In the TUA, in section 28, after subsection (1), insert —

          “(1A) In relation to a combined federation, subsection (1) does not

           affect any requirement under the Platform Workers Act 2024 relating to
           the minimum age of any member of a registered platform work
           association which is a constituent of the combined federation.”.

Amendment of section 30

 8. In the TUA, in section 30 —

        (a) in subsection (4), replace “Not less” with “Except where subsection (5)
             applies, not less”; and

        (b) after subsection (4), insert —

                 “(5) In the case of a combined federation, not less than

                   two‑thirds of the total number of the officers of the combined
                   federation shall be persons —

                            (a) actually engaged or employed in a trade, occupation
                                 or industry in which any constituent trade union is
                                 connected; or

                            (b) actually providing a platform service with which any
                                 constituent platform work association is connected.”.

Amendment of section 33

 9. In the TUA, in section 33(b), after “constituent trade unions”, insert “and, in
the case of a combined federation, its constituent trade unions and constituent
platform work associations”.

Amendment of section 34

 10. In the TUA, in section 34(1), replace paragraphs (a) and (b) with —

                “(a) its members;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         169

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued

                     (b) where the trade union is a federation, its constituent trade
                          unions; or

                     (c) where the trade union is a combined federation, its
                          constituent trade unions and constituent platform work
                          associations,”.

Amendment of section 35

 11. In the TUA, in section 35(2), after “the federation”, insert “or, in the case of a
combined federation, one or more of its constituent trade unions and constituent
platform work associations”.

Amendment of section 46

 12. In the TUA, in section 46(2)(b), after “constituent trade unions”, insert
“or, in the case of a combined federation, its constituent trade unions and
constituent platform work associations”.

Amendment of section 47

 13. In the TUA, in section 47 —

        (a) in subsection (1), replace “The funds” with “Subject to subsection
             (1A), the funds”;

        (b) after subsection (1), insert —

                 “(1A) Subsection (1) applies to a registered trade union which

                   is a combined federation (F) with the following modifications:

                            (a) a reference in subsection (1)(c) to the relations of any
                                 member with his employer or with a person whom the
                                 member employs includes a reference to the relations
                                 of —

                                      (i) any member of F who is a platform worker
                                          with any platform operator for whom the
                                          member provides a platform service; and

                                     (ii) any member of F who is a platform operator
                                          with any platform worker who provides a
                                          platform service for the member;

                            (b) a reference in subsection (1)(f) to the unemployment
                                 of a member includes a reference to the inability of a
                                 member of F who is a platform worker to provide any
                                 platform service.”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
170  NO. 30 OF 2024

                          EIGHTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (c) after subsection (3), insert —

                 “(3A) Any moneys received for a specific purpose by a

                   combined federation from its constituent platform work
                   associations, which the constituent platform work associations
                   are liable to pay to the combined federation in accordance with
                   the rules of the combined federation, shall not be used or applied
                   for any other purpose without the requisite consent of the
                   constituent platform work associations.”; and

        (d) in subsection (4), replace “or (3)” with “, (3) or (3A)”.

Amendment of section 49

 14. In the TUA, in section 49(1)(b)(iii), after “registered trade union”, insert “or
registered platform work association”.

Amendment of section 62

 15. In the TUA, in section 62 —

        (a) in paragraph (b), delete “or” at the end; and

        (b) after paragraph (b), insert —

                     “(ba) any platform work agreement as to the provision of a

                                 platform service (within the meaning given by
                                 section 3 of the Platform Workers Act 2024) by a
                                 platform worker; or”.

                            NINTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 102

      AMENDMENT OF WORK INJURY COMPENSATION ACT 2019
Amendment of long title

 1. In the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 (called in this Schedule the
WICA), in the long title, after “employment”, insert “and to platform workers for
injury suffered arising out of and in the course of their provision of platform
services for platform operators,”.

Amendment of section 2
 2. In the WICA, in section 2 —

        (a) after the definition of “adopted child”, insert —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         171

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

           “ “approved employee insurance policy” means a policy of
                insurance in respect of all liabilities that an employer may
                incur under this Act in respect of the employees of the
                employer, issued or renewed on or after 1 September 2020,
                that complies with section 26(1);”;

(b) replace the definition of “approved policy” with —

           “ “approved platform worker insurance policy” means a policy of
                insurance in respect of all liabilities that a platform operator
                may incur under this Act in respect of the platform workers
                of the platform operator, issued or renewed on or after the
                date of commencement of paragraph 15 of the Ninth
                Schedule to the Platform Workers Act 2024, that complies
                with section 26(1);

              “approved policy” means an approved employee insurance
                 policy or approved platform worker insurance policy;”;

(c) replace the definition of “average monthly earnings” or “AME”
     with —

           “ “average daily earnings” or “ADE”, in relation to a platform
                worker, means an amount computed in accordance with
                paragraph 6(1)(b) of Part 3 of the Fifth Schedule;

              “average monthly earnings” or “AME” —

                           (a) in relation to an employee, means an amount
                                computed in accordance with paragraph 6 of
                                the First Schedule; or

                           (b) in relation to a platform worker, means an
                                amount computed in accordance with
                                paragraph 6(1)(a) of Part 3 of the
                                Fifth Schedule;”;

(d) replace the definition of “designated insurer” with —

           “ “designated employer’s insurer” means a licensed insurer,
                within the meaning of the Insurance Act 1966, that is
                designated by the Commissioner under section 31(1)(a) to
                provide insurance in respect of the liability of any employer
                to pay compensation under this Act;

              “designated insurer” means a designated employer’s insurer or
                 designated PO’s insurer;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
172  NO. 30 OF 2024

                       NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                  “designated PO’s insurer” means a licensed insurer, within the
                      meaning of the Insurance Act 1966, that is designated by the
                      Commissioner under section 31(1)(b) to provide insurance
                      in respect of the liability of any platform operator to pay
                      compensation under this Act;”;

     (e) replace the definition of “earnings” with —

               “ “earnings” —

                                (a) in relation to an employee, means all
                                     remuneration payable to the employee in
                                     respect of work done under the employee’s
                                     contract of service, and includes —

                                           (i) privileges or benefits capable of being
                                                estimated in money and productivity
                                                incentive payments;

                                           (ii) the value of any food or
                                                accommodation supplied to the
                                                employee by the employer, if as a
                                                result of the accident the employee is
                                                deprived of such food or
                                                accommodation; and

                                          (iii) overtime payments or other special
                                                remuneration for work done, whether
                                                by way of bonus, allowance or
                                                otherwise, if of constant character or
                                                for work habitually performed,

                                (a) but does not include the following amounts:

                                          (iv) travelling allowances;

                                           (v) payments for any travelling
                                                concessions;

                                          (vi) contributions paid by the employer
                                                towards any pension or provident fund
                                                for the employee;

                                         (vii) payments to the employee to cover
                                                any special expenses incurred by the
                                                employee by reason of the nature of
                                                the employee’s employment; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         173

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                           (b) in relation to a platform worker, means all
                                payments payable to the platform worker in
                                respect of the platform worker providing a
                                platform service for a platform operator under a
                                platform work agreement, but does not include
                                the following amounts:

                                       (i) contributions paid by the platform
                                           operator towards any pension or
                                           provident fund for the platform
                                           worker;

                                      (ii) payments to the platform worker to
                                           cover any special expenses incurred
                                           by the platform worker by reason of
                                           the platform worker’s provision of the
                                           platform service;”;

(f) replace the definition of “employer’s insurer” with —

           “ “employer’s insurer” means a designated employer’s insurer
                with whom an employer has an approved employee
                insurance policy;”;

(g) in the definition of “injury” or “personal injury”, after
     “section 10(1)(c)”, insert “or 34G(1)(c)”;

(h) after the definition of “investigation officer”, insert —

           “ “lookback period” means the period determined in accordance
                with paragraph 6(2) of Part 3 of the Fifth Schedule;”;

(i) after the definition of “order of compensation”, insert —

           “ “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
                Platform Workers Act 2024;

              “platform operator’s insurer” means a designated PO’s insurer
                 with whom a platform operator has an approved platform
                 worker insurance policy;

              “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
                 Platform Workers Act 2024;

              “platform work agreement” has the meaning given by section 2
                 of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

              “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
                 Platform Workers Act 2024;”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
174  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

         (j) after the definition of “VCC Act”, insert —

                   “ “work”, in relation to an individual, means the individual’s
                         employment as an employee or the individual’s provision of
                         a platform service as a platform worker, as the case may be;”;
                         and

        (k) in the definition of “work injury”, replace “employment” with “work”.

Amendment of section 4

 3. In the WICA, in section 4(1)(b) and (5)(a)(i) and (b)(i), replace
“employment” with “work”.

Amendment of section 5

 4. In the WICA, in section 5, after “employees”, insert “and platform workers”.

Amendment of section 11

 5. In the WICA, in section 11 —

        (a) in the section heading, delete “and apportionment of liability for
             compensation for disease”; and

        (b) delete subsection (3).

New section 11A

 6. In the WICA, after section 11, insert —

         “Apportionment of liability for compensation for disease

            11A. If an individual contracts a disease mentioned in section 10(1) or
           34G(1) by a gradual process, such that 2 or more employers, 2 or more
           platform operators or a combination of one or more employers and one
           or more platform operators are severally liable to pay compensation
           under this Act in respect of the individual’s incapacity or death —

                   (a) the aggregate amount of the compensation payable by those
                         employers or platform operators or both must not exceed the
                         amount that would have been payable if there were only a
                         single employer or single platform operator; and

                   (b) if all of those employers or platform operators or both do not
                         come to an agreement on the apportionment of liability —
                         each employer or platform operator is liable for the
                         proportion of the compensation payable as determined in
                         the manner prescribed.”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         175

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued
Amendment of section 12
 7. In the WICA, in section 12, replace “and 11” with “, 11 and 11A”.

Amendment of section 24
 8. In the WICA, in section 24(1) —

        (a) replace “approved policies” with “approved employee insurance
             policies”; and

        (b) replace “designated insurers” with “designated employer’s insurers”.

Amendment of section 25
 9. In the WICA, in section 25 —

        (a) in subsection (2), replace paragraphs (a) and (b) with —

                      “(a) an offence under subsection (1);

                            (b) an offence under section 34P(1); or
                            (c) an offence under section 35(1)(b) of the repealed Act,

                                 whether the conviction was before, on or after
                                 1 September 2020.”;
        (b) in subsection (3)(a), delete “or” at the end;
        (c) in subsection (3), replace paragraph (b) with —

                      “(b) that any insurance policy entered into or maintained

                                 was not an approved employee insurance policy; or
                            (c) that the insurer was not a designated employer’s

                                 insurer,”; and
        (d) in subsection (5), replace paragraphs (a) and (b) with —

                      “(a) an offence under subsection (4);

                            (b) an offence under section 34P(4); or
                            (c) an offence under section 35(1)(a) of the repealed Act,

                                 whether the conviction was before, on or after
                                 1 September 2020.”.

Amendment of section 26
 10. In the WICA, in section 26 —

        (a) replace subsection (2) with —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
176  NO. 30 OF 2024

                        NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

               “(2) The Minister may prescribe different sets of compulsory

                terms for different classes of approved policies, employers,
                employees, platform operators or platform workers, and the
                compulsory terms may also require approved policies to cover
                any other liability of the employer or platform operator (as the
                case may be) to pay compensation under common law or any
                other written law for a work injury of an employee or a platform
                worker, as the case may be.”;

     (b) in subsection (3), after “an employer”, insert “or a platform operator”;

     (c) in subsection (3), replace “employer’s liability” with “liability of the
          employer or platform operator (as the case may be)”;

     (d) in subsection (4), replace “Subsection (3)” with “Where an insurer
          issues to an employer any insurance policy that purports to insure the
          whole or part of the employer’s liability for compensation under this
          Act, subsection (3)”;

     (e) after subsection (4), insert —

               “(4A) Subject to section 47C(4), where an insurer issues to a

                platform operator any insurance policy that purports to insure the
                whole or part of the platform operator’s liability for compensation
                under this Act, subsection (3) does not impose any obligation or
                liability on the insurer to pay any amount in excess of the
                minimum amount (if any) prescribed for the purposes of
                section 34O(2) that applies to the platform operator.”;

     (f) in subsection (5), after “subsection (3)”, insert “in respect of an
          employer’s liability for compensation under this Act”; and

     (g) after subsection (5), insert —

               “(6) Where an insurer is liable to pay compensation pursuant to

                subsection (3) in respect of a platform operator’s liability for
                compensation under this Act, the references to the platform
                operator’s insurer in —

                        (a) sections 18, 19 and 21, as modified by section 34B;

                        (b) sections 40, 43, 48, 49, 51, 52, 54, 58 and 63, as
                             modified by section 35B; and

                        (c) sections 16, 17, 27, 34J, 50(1)(b) and 82,

                apply as if they include references to that insurer.”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         177

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 27

 11. In the WICA, in section 27(1) —

        (a) after “an employer’s insurer”, insert “or a platform operator’s insurer”;
             and

        (b) after “the employer’s insurer”, insert “or platform operator’s insurer, as
             the case may be”.

Amendment of section 30

 12. In the WICA, in section 30 —

        (a) in subsection (1)(a), delete “on the first conviction —”;

        (b) in subsection (1)(b), replace “on a second or subsequent
             conviction —” with “if the person is a repeat offender,”;

        (c) in subsection (2)(a) and (b), replace “designated insurer” with
             “designated employer’s insurer”;

        (d) after subsection (2), insert —

                 “(2A) A person other than a person mentioned in

                   subsection (2B) who offers, or enters into a contract, to provide
                   insurance in respect of the liability of any platform operator to
                   pay compensation under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and
                   shall be liable on conviction —

                            (a) in the case of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
                                 $80,000 for each insurance policy to which the
                                 conviction under this subsection applies; and

                            (b) if the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                                 exceeding $160,000 for each insurance policy to
                                 which the conviction under this subsection applies.

                     (2B) Only the following persons may offer or enter into a
                   contract (as the case may be) to provide the insurance mentioned
                   in subsection (2A):

                            (a) a designated PO’s insurer that is not suspended under
                                 section 31(8)(b) or 34(1)(a);

                            (b) an insurance intermediary in respect of the insurance
                                 which is provided or to be provided by a designated
                                 PO’s insurer mentioned in paragraph (a).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
178  NO. 30 OF 2024

                       NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                 (2C) In subsections (1)(b) and (2A)(b), “repeat offender”, in
               relation to an offence under subsection (1) or (2A) respectively,
               means a person who —

                        (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
                             subsection (1) or (2A); and

                        (b) has been convicted, or found guilty, of any of the
                             following offences on at least one other earlier
                             occasion:

                                  (i) an offence under subsection (1) (whether the
                                      conviction was before, on or after the date of
                                      commencement of paragraph 12 of the Ninth
                                      Schedule to the Platform Workers Act 2024);

                                 (ii) an offence under subsection (2A).”;

     (e) replace subsection (3) with —

               “(3) A person (whether or not a designated insurer) who offers,

               or enters into a contract, to provide —

                        (a) any insurance in respect of the liability of any
                             employer to pay compensation under this Act which
                             is not an approved employee insurance policy; or

                        (b) any insurance in respect of the liability of any
                             platform operator to pay compensation under this
                             Act which is not an approved platform worker
                             insurance policy,

               shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

                        (c) in the case of a first offence — to a fine not exceeding
                             $80,000 for each insurance policy offered or provided
                             in contravention of this subsection; and

                        (d) if the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                             exceeding $160,000 for each insurance policy offered
                             or provided in contravention of this subsection.

                 (3A) In subsection (3)(d), “repeat offender”, in relation to an
               offence under subsection (3), means a person who —

                        (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
                             subsection (3); and

                        (b) has been convicted, or found guilty, of an offence
                             under subsection (3) (whether the conviction was

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         179

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                 before, on or after the date of commencement of
                                 paragraph 12 of the Ninth Schedule to the Platform
                                 Workers Act 2024) on at least one other occasion.”;

         (f) in subsection (4), after “subsection (1)”, insert “, (2A)”;

        (g) in subsection (4)(a), after “employer”, insert “or platform operator (as
             the case may be)”;

        (h) in subsection (5)(a), replace “employer’s liabilities” with “liabilities of
             the employer or platform operator (as the case may be)”; and

         (i) in subsection (5)(b), replace “employer’s liability” with “liability of
             the employer or platform operator (as the case may be)”.

Amendment of section 31

 13. In the WICA, in section 31 —

        (a) replace subsection (1) with —

                 “(1) The Commissioner may designate any licensed insurer,

                   within the meaning of the Insurance Act 1966, that satisfies the
                   prescribed requirements to be —

                            (a) a designated employer’s insurer to provide insurance
                                 in respect of the liability of any employer to pay
                                 compensation under this Act; or

                            (b) a designated PO’s insurer to provide insurance in
                                 respect of the liability of any platform operator to pay
                                 compensation under this Act.

                     (1A) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Minister may
                   prescribe different requirements for licensed insurers to be a
                   designated employer’s insurer or designated PO’s insurer.”; and

        (b) after subsection (11), insert —

                 “(12) A designated insurer whose designation, before the date

                   of commencement of paragraph 13 of the Ninth Schedule to the
                   Platform Workers Act 2024, has not expired or been earlier
                   cancelled under subsection (8)(a) or section 34 is deemed to be a
                   designated employer’s insurer for the remainder of the period
                   (if any) specified by the Commissioner in the designation under
                   subsection (6).”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
180  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 32

 14. In the WICA, in section 32(2)(a), replace “an employer’s liability” with “the
liability of an employer or a platform operator (as the case may be)”.

Amendment of section 33

 15. In the WICA, in section 33 —

        (a) in subsection (1)(a), replace “and Part 4” with “, Part 3A and Part 4”;

        (b) in subsection (1)(a)(i), after “an employer”, insert “or a platform
             operator, as the case may be”;

        (c) in subsection (1)(a)(ii), after “an employer”, insert “or each platform
             worker of a platform operator (as the case may be)”;

        (d) in subsection (1), replace paragraph (c) with —

                      “(c) disclose or publish to any designated insurer the

                                 information specified in subsection (1A).”;

        (e) after subsection (1), insert —

                 “(1A) The information mentioned in subsection (1)(c) is the

                   following:

                            (a) in relation to a designated employer’s insurer —

                                      (i) any information or returns obtained under
                                          subsection (1)(a) as the Commissioner thinks
                                          necessary for the purposes of this Act; and

                                     (ii) the following information derived from any
                                          information under the control of the Ministry
                                          of Manpower:

                                           (A) workforce data, including size and
                                                 aggregated payroll for all, or any class
                                                 of, employees of each employer insured
                                                 under an approved employee insurance
                                                 policy;

                                           (B) work injury claims data for all, or any
                                                 class of, employees of each employer
                                                 insured under an approved employee
                                                 insurance policy;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         181

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                            (b) in relation to a designated PO’s insurer —

                                      (i) any information or returns obtained under
                                          subsection (1)(a) as the Commissioner thinks
                                          necessary for the purposes of this Act; and

                                     (ii) the following information derived from any
                                          information under the control of the Ministry
                                          of Manpower:

                                           (A) workforce data, including size and
                                                 aggregated earnings for all, or any
                                                 class of, platform workers providing
                                                 any platform service for each platform
                                                 operator insured under an approved
                                                 platform worker insurance policy;

                                           (B) work injury claims data for all, or any
                                                 class of, platform workers providing any
                                                 platform service for each platform
                                                 operator insured under an approved
                                                 platform worker insurance policy.”; and

         (f) in subsection (2), replace “subsection (1)(c)(ii)” with
             “subsection (1A)(a)(ii) and (b)(ii)”.

Amendment of section 34

 16. In the WICA, in section 34(1) —

        (a) in paragraph (a), after “designated insurer”, insert “as a designated
             employer’s insurer or designated PO’s insurer (as the case may be)”;
             and

        (b) in paragraph (c), replace “approved policy” with “approved employee
             insurance policy or approved platform worker insurance policy (as the
             case may be)”.

New Part 3A

 17. In the WICA, after Part 3, insert —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
182  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                   “PART 3A

     APPLICATION OF PARTS 2 AND 3 TO PLATFORM OPERATORS
                            AND PLATFORM WORKERS

     Interpretation of this Part

      34A. In this Part, “work stage 1” and “work stage 2”, in relation to a
     platform service, have the meanings given by paragraph 1(3) of Part 1
     of the Fifth Schedule.

     Application of Part 2

      34B. Part 2 of this Act applies in relation to a platform operator and
     platform worker as it does in relation to an employer and employee,
     with the following modifications:

             (a) the sections in the second column of the following table
                  (called the applicable section) apply in lieu of the sections in
                  the first column (called the replaced section), and any
                  reference in any other written law to a replaced section is to
                  be read as a reference to the applicable section:

          First column        Second column
       Replaced section     Applicable section
        (i) 7
       (ii) 8                       34D
      (iii) 10                      34F
      (iv) 11                       34G
       (v) 12                       34H
      (vi) 14                        34I
     (vii) 15                       34K
     (viii) 16                      34L
      (ix) 17                       34M
                                    34N;

     (b) in sections 18, 19, 20, 21 and 23, any reference in the first
          column of the following table is to be read as the
          corresponding reference in the second column of the table:

     First column        .  Second column
      Reference
                            Corresponding reference

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         183

NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

   (i) an employee             a platform worker

  (ii) an employer             a platform operator

 (iii) an employee’s           a platform worker’s provision of a
       employment with an      platform service for a platform
       employer                operator under a platform work
                               agreement
 (iv) a contract of service
                               a platform work agreement
  (v) an accident that
       arises, or is deemed    an accident that arises, or is
       to arise, out of or in  deemed to arise, out of or in the
       the course of an        course of a platform worker
       employee’s              providing a platform service for a
       employment              platform operator under a platform
                               work agreement
 (vi) a work injury to an
       employee                a work injury to a platform worker

(vii) the earnings of an       the earnings of a platform worker
       employee
                               a platform worker’s average daily
(viii) an employee’s           earnings or ADE;
       average monthly
       earnings or AME

(c) sections 3 and 13 do not apply to platform operators or
    platform workers.

Application of Part 3

 34C. Part 3 of this Act applies in relation to a platform operator and
platform worker as it does in relation to an employer and employee,
with the following modifications:

        (a) the sections in the second column of the following table
             (called the applicable section) apply in lieu of the sections in
             the first column (called the replaced section), and any
             reference in any other written law to a replaced section is to
             be read as a reference to the applicable section:

   First column                  Second column
Replaced section               Applicable section
(i) 24
(ii) 25                                34O
                                       34P;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
184  NO. 30 OF 2024

           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     (b) in sections 28 and 29, any reference in the first column of
          the following table is to be read as the corresponding
          reference in the second column of the table:

     First column                  .  Second column

     Reference                        Corresponding reference

     (i) an employee                  a platform worker

     (ii) an employer                 a platform operator

     (iii) an employee’s              a platform worker’s provision of
           employment with an         a platform service for a platform
           employer                   operator under a platform work
                                      agreement

     (iv) a contract of service a platform work agreement

     (v) an accident that arises,     an accident that arises, or is
          or is deemed to arise,      deemed to arise, out of or in the
          out of or in the course     course of a platform worker
          of an employee’s            providing a platform service for
          employment                  a platform operator under a
                                      platform work agreement

     (vi) a work injury to an         a work injury to a platform
          employee                    worker

     (vii) the earnings of an         the earnings of a platform worker
           employee

     (viii) an employee’s             a platform worker’s average
            average monthly           daily earnings or ADE
            earnings or AME

     (ix) an employer’s               a platform operator’s liability
          liability

     (x) an employee’s claim a platform worker’s claim

     (xi) First Schedule              Fifth Schedule.

     Platform operator’s liability to compensate for work injury

      34D.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 34E, where personal
     injury is caused to a platform worker by an accident arising out of and
     in the course of the platform worker’s provision of a platform service
     for a platform operator, that platform operator is liable to pay
     compensation under this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         185

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) A platform operator is not liable to pay compensation in respect of
any of the following:

        (a) any injury to a platform worker resulting from an accident
             if —

                  (i) it is proven that the injury to the platform worker is
                      directly attributable to the platform worker being, at
                      the time of the accident, under the influence of
                      alcohol or a drug;

                 (ii) it is proven that the platform worker, at the time of
                      the accident, contravened or did not comply with
                      any written law specified in Part 1 of the
                      Sixth Schedule in relation to the platform worker’s
                      use of any vehicle in the course of providing a
                      platform service for the platform operator; or

                (iii) all of the following are proven:

                       (A) the platform worker used any vehicle in the
                             course of providing a platform service for the
                             platform operator;

                        (B) the platform worker, at the time of the
                             accident, contravened or did not comply
                             with any written law specified in Part 2 of
                             the Sixth Schedule in relation to the vehicle
                             mentioned in sub‑paragraph (A);

                        (C) the contravention or non‑compliance
                             mentioned in sub‑paragraph (B) caused or
                             contributed to the accident;

        (b) deliberate self‑injury or the deliberate aggravation of an
             accidental injury by a platform worker;

        (c) any injury to a platform worker suffered in a fight or an
             assault on one or more persons unless —

                  (i) the platform worker did not assault any other person
                      in the fight or, if the platform worker did assault any
                      person, it was done in the exercise of the right of
                      private defence in accordance with sections 97 to
                      106A of the Penal Code 1871; or

                 (ii) the platform worker was, at the time when the injury
                      was suffered —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
186  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                            (A) breaking up or preventing the fight or assault;
                                  or

                             (B) in the course of safeguarding life or any
                                  property of any person or maintaining law
                                  and order,

                      (ii) under any instruction or with the consent (express or
                           implied) of the platform operator.

      (3) In subsection (2)(a)(i), “drug” has the meaning given by
     section 7(3)(a) or (b)(i).

      (4) For the purposes of this Act, an accident arising in the course of a
     platform worker’s provision of a platform service under a platform
     work agreement with a platform operator is deemed, in the absence of
     evidence to the contrary, to have arisen out of the platform worker’s
     provision of the platform service for the platform operator.

     Platform operator’s liability — platform worker performing
     tasks for multiple platform operators at time of accident

      34E.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where personal injury is caused to a
     platform worker by an accident arising out of and in the course of the
     platform worker providing any one or more platform services for 2 or
     more platform operators concurrently.

      (2) In the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1), the platform
     operator or platform operators liable to pay compensation under this
     Act are determined as follows:

             (a) all of the platform operators for whom the platform worker,
                  at the time of the accident, was at work stage 2 of any of the
                  platform services that the platform worker was providing at
                  that time;

             (b) where, at the time of the accident, the platform worker was
                  not at work stage 2 of any platform service for any platform
                  operator — all of the platform operators for whom the
                  platform worker was at work stage 1 of any of the platform
                  services that the platform worker was providing at that time.

      (3) Where 2 or more platform operators are liable to pay
     compensation pursuant to subsection (2), the proportion of liability
     of each platform operator is determined by the proportion which the
     platform worker’s earnings with that platform operator during the
     lookback period bears to the aggregate of the platform worker’s

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         187

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

earnings during the lookback period with all platform operators who
are liable to pay compensation pursuant to that subsection.

Certain accidents deemed to be in course of provision of
platform service

 34F.—(1) An accident is deemed to arise out of and in the course of a
platform worker’s provision of a platform service for a platform
operator if the accident happens to the platform worker while he or
she —

        (a) is at work providing the platform service; and

        (b) is taking steps, on an actual or supposed emergency —

                  (i) to rescue or protect any person who is, or is thought
                      to be or possibly to be, injured or imperilled; or

                 (ii) to avert or minimise damage to or loss of property.

 (2) Despite an accident happening to the platform worker while the
platform worker is acting in contravention of any written law or other
regulations applicable to the provision of a platform service for, or of
any instructions given by or on behalf of, the platform operator, the
accident is deemed to arise out of and in the course of the platform
worker’s provision of the platform service for the platform operator
if —

        (a) the accident would have been taken to have arisen out of and
             in the course of the platform worker’s provision of the
             platform service for the platform operator, had the platform
             worker not acted in that manner; and

        (b) that act was done for the purposes and in connection with
             the provision of the platform service for the platform
             operator.

Platform operator’s liability to compensate for diseases

 34G.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) and
section 34H, where the incapacity or death of a platform worker (A)
results from a disease contracted in any of the following circumstances,
compensation is payable as if the disease were a work injury and this
Act applies accordingly:

        (a) A, while working in any specified occupation in the course
             of providing a platform service for a platform operator,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
188  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                  contracts an occupational disease specified for that
                  occupation;

             (b) A, after ceasing to work in a specified occupation in the
                  course of providing a platform service for a platform
                  operator, contracts an occupational disease specified for that
                  occupation within the limitation period for that disease;

             (c) A contracts, on or after the date of commencement of
                  paragraph 17 of the Ninth Schedule to the Platform Workers
                  Act 2024, a disease that —

                       (i) is not specified in the first column of the Second
                           Schedule; and

                      (ii) is directly attributable to an exposure to a chemical
                           or biological agent and the exposure arises out of
                           and in the course of the platform worker’s provision
                           of a platform service for a platform operator.

      (2) When a platform worker enters into a platform work agreement
     with a platform operator under which the platform worker works or will
     work in any specified occupation in the course of providing a platform
     service for the platform operator, the platform worker must, if
     requested to do so by the platform operator, submit to examination
     by a health professional paid for by the platform operator.

      (3) No compensation is payable by a platform operator under this
     section in respect of the incapacity or death of a platform worker
     resulting from —

             (a) an occupational disease specified in the first column of the
                  Second Schedule for an occupation if —

                       (i) the platform worker contracts the occupational
                           disease on or after the date of commencement of
                           paragraph 17 of the Ninth Schedule to the Platform
                           Workers Act 2024; and

                      (ii) the platform worker’s incapacity commences or
                           death happens after the end of the limitation period
                           for that occupational disease; or

             (b) a disease mentioned in subsection (1)(c), if the platform
                  worker’s incapacity commences or death happens more
                  than one year after the platform worker ceases to be exposed
                  to the chemical or biological agent mentioned in that
                  subsection.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         189

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to the death of a platform worker
where the death is preceded, whether immediately or not, by any period
of incapacity in respect of which compensation is payable under
subsection (1).

 (5) In this section, the limitation period for an occupational disease
specified for an occupation is the period specified in the third column of
the Second Schedule for that disease, starting on the day after the
platform worker ceased to work in that occupation in the course of
providing a platform service for a platform operator.

 (6) In this section, “specified occupation” means an occupation
specified in the second column of the Second Schedule.

Compensation for disease — date of accident

 34H.—(1) For the purposes of calculating the platform worker’s
ADE for the computation of compensation payable by a platform
operator under section 34G(1)(a), (b) or (c), the date of the accident is
taken to be the earliest of the following dates:

        (a) the last day that the platform worker provides a platform
             service for the platform operator mentioned in
             section 34G(1)(a), (b) or (c), as the case may be;

        (b) the date of commencement of the incapacity of the platform
             worker;

        (c) the date of the platform worker’s death.

 (2) For all other purposes of this Act in relation to compensation
payable under section 34G(1)(a), (b) or (c), the date of the accident is
taken to be —

        (a) the earlier of —

                  (i) the date of commencement of the incapacity of the
                      platform worker; or

                 (ii) the date on which a health professional certifies that,
                      in the health professional’s opinion, the platform
                      worker is suffering from the disease mentioned in
                      section 34G(1); or

        (b) if there has been no previous period of incapacity — the
             date of the platform worker’s death.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
190  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     Compensation payable to platform worker for disease limited to
     work injuries

      34I. Except as provided in sections 11A, 34D, 34F, 34G and 34H, no
     compensation is payable to a platform worker in respect of any disease
     unless the disease is directly attributable to a specific work injury.

     Claims involving provision of platform service under illegal
     platform work agreement

      34J. Despite a claimant providing a platform service for a platform
     operator under a platform work agreement that was illegal at the time
     when the accident causing the injury happened, the Commissioner or
     the court may, having regard to all the circumstances of the case, deal
     with the case, or direct the platform operator’s insurer to deal with the
     case, as if the claimant had at that time been providing the platform
     service for the platform operator under a valid platform work
     agreement.

     Computation of compensation for platform worker

      34K. The compensation for a platform worker under this Part is to be
     computed in accordance with the Fifth Schedule.

     Assessment of permanent incapacity or current incapacity of
     platform worker

      34L.—(1) For the purposes of determining the permanent incapacity
     or current incapacity of a platform worker resulting from the platform
     worker’s work injury, an accepted medical report is evidence of the
     platform worker’s —

             (a) permanent total incapacity or permanent partial incapacity,
                  assessed by the health professional who made the report at
                  any time after the date of the accident that caused the work
                  injury; or

             (b) current total incapacity or current partial incapacity, at the
                  time of the assessment by the health professional who made
                  the report, assessed at the earliest opportunity but not earlier
                  than 6 months after the date of the accident that caused the
                  work injury.

      (2) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply to any incapacity resulting from
     the diseases mentioned in section 34G(1).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         191

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

Compensation for medical treatment received by platform
worker

 34M.—(1) A platform operator is liable to pay compensation in
accordance with paragraph 5 of the Fifth Schedule for medical
treatment received by a platform worker for a work injury that —

        (a) is provided by a health professional or at an approved
             medical institution; and

        (b) is certified by any attending health professional to be
             necessary.

 (2) The compensation payable under subsection (1) for medical
treatment received at an approved medical institution by the platform
worker must be paid directly to the proprietor of the approved medical
institution, after deducting any amount previously paid by or on behalf
of the platform worker to the proprietor of the approved medical
institution for the medical treatment.

 (3) The proprietor of an approved medical institution is entitled to
recover the compensation (less the deductions) mentioned in
subsection (2) directly from the platform operator.

 (4) Where the cost of any medical treatment that the platform
operator is liable to pay under subsection (1) is paid by the platform
worker or by any other person on behalf of the platform worker, the
platform worker or that other person is entitled to recover the cost from
the platform operator.

 (5) Where any person has paid any compensation under this section
in respect of a claimant’s work injury as the claimant’s platform
operator or platform operator’s insurer (called in this section the payer)
or any ex gratia payment has been made under section 70 in respect of
such compensation, the Commissioner may order the claimant to
reimburse the payer or the Commissioner (as the case may be) for such
payment if —

        (a) the claim in respect of that work injury is withdrawn, and is
             not resumed, under section 41, as modified by section 35B;

        (b) an order of refusal of compensation has been made or has
             taken effect, in respect of that work injury; or

        (c) the payment was made on the basis of any error or any false
             or misleading information.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
192  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

      (6) Subsection (5) applies to the payer only if —

             (a) the payer applies to the Commissioner for the
                  reimbursement within the prescribed time and in the form
                  and manner required by the Commissioner; and

             (b) the claimant has been given a reasonable opportunity to
                  make representations to the Commissioner.

      (7) Any reimbursement ordered under subsection (5) is recoverable
     directly from the claimant.

     Compensation for temporary incapacity of platform worker

      34N.—(1) Where any work injury results in the temporary incapacity
     of a platform worker, the compensation the platform operator is liable
     under this Act to pay to the platform worker is a periodical payment that
     is —

             (a) an amount specified in the Fifth Schedule; and

             (b) payable in accordance with subsection (2).

      (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), a periodical payment is
     payable —

             (a) where the platform operator receives, no later than the
                  14th day of a calendar month (called in this subsection the
                  relevant day), a certificate of a health professional in respect
                  of the work injury to the platform worker — not later than
                  16 days after the relevant day; or

             (b) where the platform operator receives, after the relevant day
                  but no later than the last day of a calendar month, a
                  certificate of a health professional in respect of the work
                  injury to the platform worker — not later than the 13th day
                  of the following calendar month.

      (3) The Commissioner may review any periodical payment for
     temporary incapacity on the application of the platform worker, the
     platform operator or the platform operator’s insurer, if accompanied by
     a certificate of a health professional that there has been a change in the
     condition of the platform worker.

      (4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commissioner may, on a
     review under subsection (3), direct any periodical payment to the
     platform worker for temporary incapacity to be continued, increased,
     decreased or ended.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         193

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (5) Any periodical payments for temporary incapacity may be
commuted into a lump sum, of an amount agreed between the
platform operator liable to make the periodical payments and the
platform worker, after —

        (a) the periodical payments have continued for not less than
             6 months; and

        (b) the Commissioner consents.

 (6) Where any person has paid any compensation under this section
in respect of a claimant’s work injury as the claimant’s platform
operator or platform operator’s insurer (called in this section the payer)
or any ex gratia payment has been made under section 70 in respect of
such compensation, the Commissioner may order the claimant to
refund such payment if —

        (a) the claim in respect of that work injury is withdrawn, and is
             not resumed, under section 41, as modified by section 35B;

        (b) an order of refusal of compensation has been made or has
             taken effect, in respect of that work injury; or

        (c) the payment was made on the basis of any error or any false
             or misleading information.

 (7) Subsection (6) applies to the payer only if —

        (a) the payer applies to the Commissioner for the refund within
             the prescribed time and in the form and manner required by
             the Commissioner; and

        (b) the claimant has been given a reasonable opportunity to
             make representations to the Commissioner.

 (8) Any refund ordered under subsection (6) is recoverable directly
from the claimant.

Platform operator must be insured against liabilities under Act
in relation to platform workers

 34O.—(1) Every platform operator must insure and maintain
insurance under one or more approved platform worker insurance
policies with one or more designated PO’s insurers against all liabilities
that the platform operator may incur under this Act in respect of every
platform worker who provides a platform service for the platform
operator.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
194  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

      (2) Subsection (1) applies subject to any minimum prescribed amount
     for which a platform operator must be insured in respect of any of the
     platform operator’s liabilities under this Act.

     Offences by platform operator in relation to insurance

      34P.—(1) A platform operator that contravenes section 34O(1) shall
     be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

             (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
                  term not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

             (b) if the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not exceeding
                  $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                  12 months or to both.

      (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), “repeat offender”, in
     relation to an offence under subsection (1), means a person who —

             (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
                  subsection (1); and

             (b) has been convicted, or found guilty, of any of the following
                  offences on at least one other occasion:

                       (i) an offence under subsection (1);

                      (ii) an offence under section 25(1);

                     (iii) an offence under section 35(1)(b) of the repealed
                           Act, whether the conviction was before, on or after
                           1 September 2020.

      (3) It is not a defence to a charge for an offence under subsection (1)
     that the platform operator did not know —

             (a) the number of platform workers who provide a platform
                  service for the platform operator, or the extent of the
                  platform operator’s liability, that the platform operator must
                  be insured against;

             (b) that any insurance policy entered into or maintained was not
                  an approved platform worker insurance policy; or

             (c) that the insurer was not a designated PO’s insurer,

     unless the platform operator had taken all reasonable steps to ascertain
     those matters.

      (4) A platform operator that, for the purpose of defraying or partly
     defraying the cost of insurance required under section 34O, makes any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         195

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

            deduction from the earnings of a platform worker who provides a
            platform service for the platform operator shall be guilty of an offence
            and shall be liable on conviction —

                     (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                          not exceeding 6 months or to both; or

                     (b) if the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not exceeding
                          $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                          6 months or to both.

              (5) For the purposes of subsection (4)(b), “repeat offender”, in
            relation to an offence under subsection (4), means a person who —

                     (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under
                          subsection (4); and

                     (b) has been convicted, or found guilty, of any of the following
                          offences on at least one other occasion:

                               (i) an offence under subsection (4);

                              (ii) an offence under section 25(4);

                             (iii) an offence under section 35(1)(a) of the repealed
                                   Act, whether the conviction was before, on or after
                                   1 September 2020.”.

Amendment of section 35

 18. In the WICA, in section 35 —

        (a) in the section heading, after “employer”, insert “or platform
             operator”;

        (b) replace subsection (1) with —

                 “(1) A claim for compensation under this Act is deemed to be

                   made —

                            (a) by an employee when the employer first has notice of
                                 an accident giving rise to the employee’s work injury;
                                 or

                            (b) by a platform worker when the platform operator first
                                 has notice of an accident giving rise to the platform
                                 worker’s work injury.”;

        (c) after subsection (2), insert —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
196  NO. 30 OF 2024

                        NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

               “(2A) A platform operator has notice of an accident for the

                purposes of this Act when either of the following events occurs:

                        (a) the platform worker informs any of the following
                             persons of the date and place of the accident and the
                             cause of the injury:

                                  (i) the platform operator;

                                 (ii) any person designated for the purpose by the
                                      platform operator;

                        (b) the platform operator has knowledge of the accident
                             by any other means.”;

     (d) replace subsection (3) with —

               “(3) Every employer or platform operator must, within the

                prescribed time after the employer or platform operator (as the
                case may be) first has notice of an accident giving rise to work
                injury to the claimant, give notice of the accident to —

                        (a) the Commissioner in the form and manner specified
                             by the Commissioner; and

                        (b) the employer’s insurer or platform operator’s insurer
                             (as the case may be) in writing.”;

     (e) replace subsection (5) with —

               “(4A) A platform worker must, as soon as possible after

                sustaining a work injury in an accident, notify the platform
                operator or any of the other persons mentioned in
                subsection (2A)(a).

                 (5) A claim under this Act is deemed to be withdrawn if the
                employer or platform operator (as the case may be) of the
                claimant does not have notice of the claimant’s accident at the end
                of whichever period specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) that ends
                last:

                        (a) one year after the date of the claimant’s accident;

                        (b) if the claimant dies within the period mentioned in
                             paragraph (a), one year after the date of the claimant’s
                             death;

                        (c) any period ending on a later date specified under
                             subsection (6).”;

     (f) in subsection (7), replace “employee” with “claimant”; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         197

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

        (g) in subsection (8), after “employer”, insert “or a platform operator”.

New sections 35A and 35B

 19. In the WICA, after section 35, insert —

          “Directions by Commissioner — processing of claims

              35A.—(1) This section applies where —

                     (a) an accident gives rise to an individual’s work injury; and

                     (b) a claim for compensation is deemed to be made by the
                          individual under section 35.

              (2) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that, at the time of the
            accident, the individual was at work as an employee only, the
            Commissioner may direct that the claim be dealt with under section 36.

              (3) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that, at the time of the
            accident, the individual was a platform worker at work providing a
            platform service for any platform operator only, the Commissioner may
            do any of the following:

                     (a) direct a platform operator’s insurer for an applicable
                          platform operator to process the claim under Division 2A
                          of this Part;

                     (b) give notice that the Commissioner will process the claim
                          under Division 3 of this Part, as modified by section 35B,
                          and direct all or any of the following persons to do anything
                          to facilitate the processing of the claim by the
                          Commissioner:

                               (i) an applicable platform operator;

                              (ii) a platform operator’s insurer for that applicable
                                   platform operator.

              (4) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that, at the time of the
            accident, the individual was concurrently at work as an employee and
            as a platform worker, the Commissioner may do any of the following:

                     (a) where the Commissioner is satisfied that the individual’s
                          AME as an employee is higher than the individual’s AME
                          as a platform worker —

                               (i) direct that, despite any other provision of this Act,
                                   the individual’s claim be treated as a claim for
                                   compensation made by an employee; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
198  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      (ii) do anything under subsection (2);

             (b) where the Commissioner is satisfied that the individual’s
                  AME as a platform worker is higher than the individual’s
                  AME as an employee —

                       (i) direct that, despite any other provision of this Act,
                           the individual’s claim be treated as a claim for
                           compensation made by a platform worker; and

                      (ii) do anything under subsection (3);

             (c) give notice to the following persons that the Commissioner
                  will process the individual’s claim in accordance with this
                  Act and require all or any of those persons to do any thing to
                  facilitate the processing of the individual’s claim by the
                  Commissioner:

                       (i) an applicable employer and an employer’s insurer
                           for that applicable employer;

                      (ii) an applicable platform operator and a platform
                           operator’s insurer for that applicable platform
                           operator.

      (5) The Commissioner must process a claim for compensation under
     this Act in respect of a platform worker’s work injury in accordance
     with Division 3 of this Part, as modified by section 35B, if the
     Commissioner —

             (a) is satisfied that there is no platform operator’s insurer
                  insuring the platform operator’s liability under this Act in
                  respect of the claimant’s work injury; or

             (b) decides to process the claim in any particular case,
                  including under section 47H(b) or 50(2)(ba).

      (6) In this section —

           “applicable employer”, in relation to an individual, means any
              employer of the individual at the time of the accident
              mentioned in subsection (1)(a);

           “applicable platform operator”, in relation to an individual, means
              any platform operator for whom the individual was providing a
              platform service at the time of the accident mentioned in
              subsection (1)(a).

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                                     199

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

Application of Part 4 to platform operators and platform
workers

 35B. Part 4 of this Act applies to platform operators and platform
workers as it does to employers and employees, with the modification
that sections 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 48, 49, 51 to 63 and 64 (except
section 64(1)(b)(ii)) apply in relation to a platform operator or platform
worker as if any reference mentioned in the first column of the
following table is to the corresponding reference mentioned in the
second column of the table:

First column                  .  Second column

Reference                        Corresponding reference

(a) an employee                  a platform worker

(b) an employer                  a platform operator

(c) an employee’s                a platform worker’s provision of a
    employment with an           platform service for a platform
    employer                     operator under a platform work
                                 agreement

(d) a contract of service        a platform work agreement

(e) an accident that arises,     an accident that arises, or is deemed
    or is deemed to arise,       to arise, out of or in the course of a
    out of or in the course      platform worker providing a platform
    of an employee’s             service for a platform operator under
    employment                   a platform work agreement

(f) a work injury to an          a work injury to a platform worker
    employee

(g) the earnings of an           the earnings of a platform worker
     employee

(h) an employee’s average        a platform worker’s average daily
     monthly earnings or         earnings or ADE
     AME

(i) an employer’s insurer a platform operator’s insurer

(j) an employer’s                a platform operator’s insurance policy
    insurance policy

(k) an employer’s liability a platform operator’s liability

(l) an employee’s claim a platform worker’s claim

(m) First Schedule               Fifth Schedule.

                                                                         ”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
200  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 39

 20. In the WICA, in section 39 —

        (a) in subsection (1), after “employee”, insert “or platform worker”;

        (b) replace subsection (2) with —

                 “(2) Subsection (1) does not apply —

                            (a) in relation to an employee who has made a deemed
                                 claim for a work injury — where the employer’s
                                 insurer or the Commissioner notifies the employee
                                 that the employee is being assessed for permanent
                                 incapacity or current incapacity; or

                            (b) in relation to a platform worker who has made a
                                 deemed claim for a work injury — where the platform
                                 operator’s insurer or the Commissioner notifies the
                                 platform worker that the platform worker is being
                                 assessed for permanent incapacity or current
                                 incapacity.”;

        (c) in subsection (3)(b), replace “employee’s injury” with “injury to the
             employee or platform worker (as the case may be)”; and

        (d) in subsection (4), after “employee”, insert “or a platform worker”.

Amendment of section 44

 21. In the WICA, in section 44, in the section heading, replace “Insurer’s
process” with “Employer’s insurer’s process”.

Amendment of section 45

 22. In the WICA, in section 45 —

        (a) in the section heading, replace “designated insurer’s” with
             “designated employer’s insurer’s”; and

        (b) in paragraph (a), replace “designated insurer” with “designated
             employer’s insurer”.

New Division 2A of Part 4

 23. In the WICA, in Part 4, after Division 2, insert —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         201

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     “Division 2A — Processing by platform operator’s insurer

Relevant platform operator

 47A.—(1) For the purposes of processing a platform worker’s claim
for compensation under this Act that arises from an accident arising out
of and in the course of the platform worker’s provision of any platform
service, the platform operator of the platform worker is —

        (a) where, at the time of the accident, the platform worker was
             at work providing one or more platform services for one
             platform operator — that platform operator; or

        (b) where, at the time of the accident, the platform worker was
             at work providing one or more platform services for 2 or
             more platform operators — the platform operator
             designated under subsection (2) (called in this Division
             the relevant platform operator).

 (2) Where —

        (a) at the time of the accident, the platform worker was at work
             providing one or more platform services for 2 or more
             platform operators; and

        (b) 2 or more of the platform operators mentioned in
             paragraph (a) are liable to pay compensation under this
             Act to the platform worker,

the Commissioner may by written notice designate any platform
operator mentioned in paragraph (b) as the relevant platform operator
in respect of the platform worker’s claim for compensation under this
Act arising from the accident.

 (3) A notice issued under subsection (2) must —

        (a) identify the platform worker who sustained personal injury
             and specify the date, time and location of the accident; and

        (b) be served on the relevant platform operator and the platform
             operator’s insurer of the relevant platform operator.

Platform operator’s insurer’s process

 47B.—(1) Unless the Commissioner has notified a platform
operator’s insurer that the Commissioner or another insurer will
process a claim, the platform operator’s insurer must process the
platform operator’s liability to pay compensation in accordance with
this Act expeditiously —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
202  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

             (a) on receipt of a notice of an accident from the platform
                  operator under section 35(3)(b);

             (b) on receipt of a notice of resumption of the claim under
                  section 41(2)(a), as modified by section 35B; or

             (c) on the Commissioner’s direction.

      (2) If the platform operator’s insurer is of the view that the platform
     operator’s insurance policy with the platform operator’s insurer does
     not insure the platform operator’s liability to the claimant in respect of
     the accident, the platform operator’s insurer must notify the
     Commissioner and the platform operator within the prescribed time.

      (3) If the Commissioner is not notified in accordance with
     subsection (2), the platform operator’s insurer must process the claim
     and serve a notice of computation on the claimant and the platform
     operator, stating —

             (a) the amount of compensation payable in respect of the claim,
                  computed in accordance with the Fifth Schedule; or

             (b) that compensation is refused because —

                       (i) the accident to which the claim relates did not arise
                           out of or in the course of the claimant’s provision of
                           a platform service for the platform operator; or

                      (ii) the claimant was not a platform worker within the
                           meaning of this Act.

      (4) Regulations made under section 82 may prescribe the
     circumstances in which the platform operator’s insurer need not
     serve a notice of computation under subsection (3).

      (5) Subject to section 47D(5), a notice of computation under
     subsection (3) that is served on the claimant and the platform
     operator is deemed to have been agreed upon by them, and has the
     effect of an order of compensation —

             (a) where no notice of objection under section 46 is received by
                  the Commissioner within a period of 14 days after the date
                  of service of the notice of computation — on the 15th day
                  after the date of service of the notice of computation; or

             (b) where all notices of objection so received by the
                  Commissioner are withdrawn within a period of 28 days
                  after the date of service of the notice of computation — on

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         203

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

             the 29th day after the date of service of the notice of
             computation.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5) and sections 46(2) and 47C,
where a platform operator’s insurer issues a notice of computation, the
date the notice of computation is issued is deemed to be the date of
service of the notice of computation on the platform operator’s insurer.

Additional provisions where other platform operators liable
pursuant to section 34E

 47C.—(1) Where the platform operator’s insurer of the relevant
platform operator processing a claimant’s claim under section 47B
(called in this Division the relevant PO’s insurer) is satisfied that any
other platform operator is liable to pay compensation to the claimant
pursuant to section 34E, the relevant PO’s insurer must —

        (a) process the liability of the other platform operator and issue
             a notice of computation in accordance with section 47B(3);
             and

        (b) do either of the following on behalf of the other platform
             operator:

                  (i) pay any compensation in respect of the platform
                      worker’s work injury that is payable under this Act;

                 (ii) deposit with the Commissioner any compensation in
                      respect of the platform worker’s work injury that is
                      payable under this Act.

 (2) The Commissioner may direct any platform operator’s insurer (Y)
of any platform operator (other than the relevant platform operator)
mentioned in subsection (1) (Z) to do any thing to facilitate the relevant
PO’s insurer’s processing, in accordance with subsection (1)(a), of Z’s
liability under this Act.

 (3) The relevant PO’s insurer must —

        (a) serve the notice of computation issued under
             subsection (1)(a) on the claimant, Y and Z; and

        (b) inform Y and Z of the amount representing the
             compensation payable in respect of the platform worker’s
             work injury by Z.

 (4) Where the notice of computation issued by the relevant PO’s
insurer under subsection (1)(a) has the effect of an order of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
204  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     compensation under section 47B(5), the relevant PO’s insurer must, in
     accordance with section 18, as modified by section 34B, pay or deposit
     the amount of compensation stated in the notice of computation,
     whether or not that amount exceeds the amount insured under any
     insurance policy of the relevant platform operator.

      (5) Subsection (4) applies to the relevant PO’s insurer despite
     section 47F or any provision in an approved platform worker
     insurance policy between the relevant PO’s insurer and the relevant
     platform operator.

      (6) Except where subsection (7) applies and subject to section 47E, Y
     must, within the prescribed period starting on the date on which the
     relevant PO’s insurer made payment or deposit in accordance with
     subsection (4), reimburse the relevant PO’s insurer for the amount
     representing the proportion of the compensation payable by Z.

      (7) Subject to section 47E, where Z does not maintain insurance
     under any approved platform worker insurance policy with any
     designated PO’s insurer, Z must, within the period prescribed for the
     purposes of subsection (6), reimburse the relevant PO’s insurer for the
     amount representing the proportion of the compensation payable by Z.

     Objection to notice of computation issued under section 47B(3)

      47D.—(1) Where any of the following persons is aggrieved by a
     notice of computation issued under section 47B(3) in relation to a
     claim, that person may give the Commissioner a notice of objection:

             (a) the claimant;

             (b) the platform operator or any other person named in the
                  notice of computation as being liable to pay any
                  compensation under the claim;

             (c) the platform operator’s insurer who issued the notice of
                  computation.

      (2) A notice of objection under subsection (1) must state precisely the
     grounds of objection and must be given —

             (a) before the expiry of —

                       (i) 14 days after the date of service of the notice of
                           computation; or

                      (ii) if the Commissioner is satisfied that the notice of
                           objection was delayed by any error or fraud, other

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         205

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      than by the person giving the notice of objection —
                      90 days after the period mentioned in
                      sub‑paragraph (i) expires; and

        (b) in the form and manner required by the Commissioner.

 (3) Any change to the computation of compensation due to the
Medical Board’s assessment of incapacity is not an error for the
purposes of subsection (2)(a)(ii).

 (4) A person who has given a notice of objection may withdraw the
objection by a notice given in the manner required by the
Commissioner.

 (5) If a notice of objection in respect of a notice of computation is
accepted under subsection (2)(a)(ii) after the notice of computation has
the effect of an order of compensation under section 47B(5) —

        (a) that order of compensation ceases to have effect, unless it
             has been enforced under section 60, as modified by
             section 35B; and

        (b) if the notice of objection is withdrawn before the
             Commissioner makes an order of compensation, the order
             of compensation mentioned in paragraph (a) is deemed to
             have effect under section 47B(5) starting on the date of the
             withdrawal.

Objection to notice of computation issued under
section 47C(1)(a)

 47E.—(1) Subsections (2) and (3) apply where —

        (a) the relevant PO’s insurer serves a notice of computation
             issued under section 47C(1)(a) on the following persons in
             accordance with section 47C(3):

                  (i) any platform operator mentioned in section 47C(1)
                      (other than the relevant platform operator) (Z);

                 (ii) any platform operator’s insurer (Y) of Z; and

        (b) Y or Z is aggrieved by the notice of computation in respect
             of —

                  (i) Z’s liability to pay compensation in respect of the
                      platform worker’s injury under this Act; or

                 (ii) the amount which Y must reimburse the relevant
                      PO’s insurer in accordance with section 47C(6), or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
206  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                           which Z must reimburse the relevant PO’s insurer in
                           accordance with section 47C(7), as the case may be.

      (2) Y or Z must, before the expiry of 7 days after the date of service of
     the notice of computation on Y or Z (as the case may be), give the
     relevant PO’s insurer a notice in the form and manner required by the
     Commissioner.

      (3) Where the relevant PO’s insurer receives a notice given under
     subsection (2), the relevant PO’s insurer must, before the expiry of
     14 days after the date the notice of computation is issued, give the
     Commissioner a notice of objection in the form and manner required by
     the Commissioner.

      (4) The relevant PO’s insurer must ensure that the notice of objection
     mentioned in subsection (3) accurately sets out all grounds of objection
     set out in the notice given by Y or Z (as the case may be) to the relevant
     PO’s insurer under subsection (2).

      (5) If —

             (a) Y or Z gives the relevant PO’s insurer a notice in accordance
                  with subsection (2);

             (b) the relevant PO’s insurer fails to give the Commissioner a
                  notice of objection in accordance with subsection (3); and

             (c) Y or Z has reason to believe that the relevant PO’s insurer’s
                  failure to give the notice of objection to the Commissioner
                  is due to any error or fraud by the relevant PO’s insurer,

     Y or Z may give the Commissioner a notice of objection before the
     expiry of 30 days after the period mentioned in subsection (2) in the
     form and manner required by the Commissioner.

      (6) The notice of objection mentioned in subsection (5) must state
     precisely the grounds of objection by Y or Z, as the case may be.

      (7) If a notice of objection is accepted under subsection (5) after the
     notice of computation has the effect of an order of compensation under
     section 47B(5) —

             (a) that order of compensation ceases to have effect, unless it
                  has been enforced under section 60, as modified by
                  section 35B; and

             (b) if the notice of objection is withdrawn before the
                  Commissioner makes an order of compensation, the order
                  of compensation mentioned in paragraph (a) is deemed to

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         207

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

             have effect under section 47B(5) starting on the date of the
             withdrawal.

 (8) Where Y or Z —

        (a) gives the relevant PO’s insurer a notice in accordance with
             subsection (2); or

        (b) gives the Commissioner a notice of objection in accordance
             with subsection (5),

the following applies:

        (c) Y’s obligation to reimburse the relevant PO’s insurer in
             accordance with section 47C(6), or Z’s obligation to
             reimburse the relevant PO’s insurer in accordance with
             section 47C(7) (as the case may be), remains in force
             despite Y or Z (as the case may be) notifying the objection;

        (d) Y’s payment of any amount to the relevant PO’s insurer in
             accordance with section 47C(6), or Z’s payment of any
             amount to the relevant PO’s insurer in accordance with
             section 47C(7), does not constitute an admission of liability
             by Y or Z in respect of —

                  (i) Z’s liability to pay compensation in respect of the
                      platform worker’s injury under this Act; or

                 (ii) the amount which Y must reimburse the relevant
                      PO’s insurer in accordance with section 47C(6), or
                      which Z must reimburse the relevant PO’s insurer in
                      accordance with section 47C(7), as the case may be.

 (9) Without affecting any other provision of this Act relating to the
Commissioner’s powers in determining the compensation payable
under this Act, where a notice of objection is given under subsection (3)
or (5), the Commissioner may —

        (a) review the notice of computation issued by the relevant
             PO’s insurer, with or without conducting a hearing; and

        (b) make either of the following orders:

                  (i) an order affirming the notice of computation issued
                      by the relevant PO’s insurer;

                 (ii) an order for the payment of compensation or refusal
                      of compensation, as the Commissioner thinks just.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
208  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

      (10) Where the Commissioner makes an order mentioned in
     subsection (9)(b)(ii), the order may additionally require the relevant
     PO’s insurer to refund any amount paid to the relevant PO’s insurer by
     Y or Z, as the case may be.

      (11) In a review under subsection (9)(b), the Commissioner must
     disregard any ground of objection that is not contained in the notice of
     objection given under subsection (3) or (5).

      (12) When making an order under subsection (9)(b), the
     Commissioner may also, subject to regulations made under
     section 82, order costs of and incidental to any proceedings before
     the Commissioner.

     Payment of compensation by platform operator’s insurer

      47F. Where the platform operator is liable to pay an amount of
     compensation stated in a notice of computation that, under
     section 47B(5), has the effect of an order of compensation, the
     platform operator’s insurer must, in accordance with section 18, as
     modified by section 34B, pay or deposit that amount, up to the amount
     insured under that platform operator’s insurance policy with the
     platform operator’s insurer.

     Recovery of amounts payable under section 47C(6) or (7)

      47G.—(1) Except where subsection (2) applies, the relevant PO’s
     insurer is entitled to recover directly from a platform operator’s insurer
     mentioned in section 47C(2) (Y), in accordance with subsection (3) —

             (a) the amount mentioned in section 47C(6) or any part of that
                  amount unpaid; and

             (b) interest on the amount mentioned in paragraph (a) at the
                  same rate as for a judgment debt.

      (2) In a case where section 47C(7) applies, the relevant PO’s insurer
     is entitled to recover directly from a platform operator mentioned in
     that provision (Z), in accordance with subsection (3) —

             (a) the amount mentioned in that provision or any part of that
                  amount unpaid; and

             (b) interest on the amount mentioned in paragraph (a) at the
                  same rate as for a judgment debt.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         209

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) The relevant PO’s insurer may recover the amount mentioned in
subsection (1) from Y, or the amount mentioned in subsection (2) from
Z (as the case may be), after the later of the following:

        (a) the expiry of the prescribed period starting on the date on
             which the relevant PO’s insurer made payment or deposit in
             accordance with section 47C(4);

        (b) where a notice of objection has been given to the
             Commissioner under section 47E(3) or (5) — the date on
             which the Commissioner makes an order under
             section 47E(9)(b).

Directions by Commissioner on designated PO’s insurer’s denial
of coverage

 47H. Where a platform operator’s insurer gives notice to the
Commissioner under section 47B(2) denying, in whole or in part,
that the platform operator’s liability under this Act in relation to the
accident is insured by the platform operator’s insurer, the
Commissioner may do any of the following:

        (a) direct the platform operator to give notice of the accident to
             another designated PO’s insurer with whom the platform
             operator has an approved platform worker insurance policy;

        (b) give notice that the Commissioner will process the claim
             under Division 3 of this Part, as modified by section 35B,
             and direct the platform operator’s insurer, the platform
             operator or both to do anything to facilitate the processing
             of the claim by the Commissioner;

        (c) direct the platform operator’s insurer to continue to process
             the claim under this Division and issue a notice of
             computation in accordance with section 47B(3).

Provision of information to platform operator’s insurer

 47I.—(1) This section applies in relation to a claim in respect of a
work injury caused to a platform worker (P) by an accident arising out
of and in the course of P’s provision of a platform service for a platform
operator.

 (2) For the purposes of processing a claim mentioned in
subsection (1), any platform operator’s insurer (A) may request —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
210  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

             (a) any platform operator (B) to provide —

                       (i) information on whether P has, at any time during the
                           lookback period, provided any platform service for
                           B; and

                      (ii) if P has, at any time during the lookback period,
                           provided any platform service for B, any
                           information or document relating to any specified
                           matter; or

             (b) P to provide —

                       (i) information on whether P has, at any time during the
                           lookback period, provided any platform service for
                           any platform operator (other than a platform
                           operator for whom P was providing a platform
                           service at the time of the accident); and

                      (ii) if P has, at any time during the lookback period,
                           provided any platform service for any platform
                           operator mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), any
                           information or document relating to any specified
                           matter.

      (3) Upon receiving a request from A under subsection (2), B or P (as
     the case may be) must provide the information or document mentioned
     in subsection (2)(a)(i) and (ii) or (b)(i) and (ii) (as the case may be)
     within the time prescribed for the purposes of this subsection and in the
     form and manner required by the Commissioner.

      (4) In this section, “specified matter”, in relation to a platform
     worker’s provision of a platform service for a platform operator,
     means —

             (a) the platform worker’s earnings from providing the platform
                  service for the platform operator during the lookback
                  period;

             (b) the task or tasks performed by the platform worker in
                  providing the platform service for the platform operator,
                  including the mode or modes of transport used by the
                  platform worker to perform any task; or

             (c) any other matter prescribed.”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         211

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

Amendment of section 50

 24. In the WICA, in section 50 —

        (a) in subsection (1), after “employer”, insert “or platform operator (as the
             case may be)”;

        (b) in subsection (1)(b), after “employer’s insurer”, insert “or platform
             operator’s insurer (as the case may be)”; and

        (c) in subsection (2), after paragraph (b), insert —

                     “(ba) where the compensation is being processed by the

                                 platform operator’s insurer, decide to process the
                                 compensation instead under section 36(2)(b), as
                                 modified by section 35B;”.

Amendment of section 68

 25. In the WICA, in section 68(1) —

        (a) in paragraphs (a) and (h), after “workplace”, insert “or premises
             occupied by a platform operator”;

        (b) in paragraph (b), replace sub‑paragraphs (i) and (ii) with —

                              “(i) a workplace;

                                     (ii) a place of which a workplace forms a part; or

                                    (iii) any premises occupied by a platform
                                          operator;”; and

        (c) after paragraph (b), insert —

                     “(ba) to inspect and make copies of or take extracts from, or

                                 require the occupier or any person having the
                                 management or control of any place mentioned in
                                 paragraph (a) or (b) to provide copies of or extracts
                                 from, any book, document, record or electronic
                                 material;”.

Replacement of section 70

 26. In the WICA, replace section 70 with —

          “Ex gratia payments from Workers’ Fund

              70. The Commissioner may make ex gratia payments from the
            Workers’ Fund of —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
212  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                     (a) an amount not exceeding the compensation that an
                          employee is entitled to under this Act, to any person to
                          whom money deposited with the Commissioner may be
                          paid in accordance with section 21; or

                     (b) an amount not exceeding the compensation that a platform
                          worker is entitled to under this Act, to any person to whom
                          money deposited with the Commissioner may be paid in
                          accordance with section 21, as modified by section 34B.”.

Amendment of section 82

 27. In the WICA, in section 82(2), replace paragraph (j) with —

                 “(j) require —

                               (i) an employer to display the certificate of insurance
                                   issued by the employer’s insurer for the approved
                                   employee insurance policy or policies applicable to
                                   the employer; or

                              (ii) a platform operator to display the certificate of
                                   insurance issued by the platform operator’s insurer
                                   for the approved platform worker insurance policy
                                   or policies applicable to the platform operator;”.

Amendment of First Schedule

 28. In the WICA, in the First Schedule, in the Schedule title, after
“COMPENSATION”, insert “FOR EMPLOYEES”.

Amendment of Second Schedule

 29. In the WICA, in the Second Schedule, in the Schedule reference, after “(5)”,
insert “, 34G(1), (3), (5) and (6)”.

Amendment of Fourth Schedule

 30. In the WICA, in the Fourth Schedule, in the Schedule reference, replace
“and paragraph 3(1) of First Schedule” with “paragraph 3(1) of First Schedule and
paragraph 3(1) of Part 3 of Fifth Schedule”.

New Fifth and Sixth Schedules

 31. In the WICA, after the Fourth Schedule, insert —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         213

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                       “FIFTH SCHEDULE

                                                        Sections 2, 34A, 34K, 34M(1), 34N(1)
                                                                                       and 47B(3)(a)

 AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION FOR PLATFORM WORKERS

                                     PART 1

                                   GENERAL

Definitions

 1.—(1) In this Schedule —

      “collection location”, in relation to a delivery service provided by
         a platform worker, means —

                (a) the location where the platform worker collects any
                     goods or items for delivery to one or more service
                     users; or

                (b) where a task involves the platform worker collecting
                     goods or items from more than one location for
                     delivery, the first such location;

      “delivery location”, in relation to a delivery service provided by a
         platform worker, means —

                (a) the location where the platform worker delivers any
                     goods or items to one or more service users; or

                (b) where a task involves the platform worker delivering
                     goods or items to service users at more than one
                     location, the last such location;

      “drop‑off location”, in relation to a ride‑hail service provided by a
         platform worker, means —

                (a) the location determined by a passenger or hirer for
                     the end of a journey to be provided under the
                     ride‑hail service; or

                (b) where a task involves the platform worker conveying
                     more than one passenger or hirer, the location
                     determined by the last passenger or hirer for the
                     end of his or her journey to be provided under the
                     ride‑hail service;

      “interim location”, in relation to a delivery service provided by a
         platform worker —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
214  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                     (a) means any location (other than a collection location)
                          where the platform worker is in possession or has
                          custody of any goods or items for delivery to one or
                          more service users, and includes, where the goods or
                          items are kept or stored in or on a vehicle, the
                          location where the vehicle is situated; but

                     (b) does not include any location at which the platform
                          worker temporarily stops for a rest break or meal
                          break;

           “pick‑up location”, in relation to a ride‑hail service provided by a
              platform worker, means —

                     (a) the location determined by a passenger or hirer for
                          the beginning of a journey to be provided under the
                          ride‑hail service; or

                     (b) where a task involves the platform worker conveying
                          more than one passenger or hirer, the location
                          determined by the first passenger or hirer for the
                          beginning of his or her journey to be provided under
                          the ride‑hail service;

           “work stage”, in relation to a platform service, means work stage 1
              or work stage 2 of the platform service;

           “work stage 1” and “work stage 2” have the meanings given by
              sub‑paragraph (3).

      (2) For the purposes of this Act, a platform worker is taken to be at
     work providing a platform service at any time during which the
     platform worker is at work stage 1 or work stage 2 of that platform
     service.

      (3) For the purposes of this Act, a platform worker providing a
     platform service mentioned in the first column of Part 2 of this
     Schedule —

             (a) is at work stage 1 of that platform service when the platform
                  worker is at the stage of work specified opposite in the
                  second column of that Part; and

             (b) is at work stage 2 of that platform service when the platform
                  worker is at the stage of work specified opposite in the third
                  column of that Part.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
              PLATFORM WORKERS                                  215

 NINTH SCHEDULE — continued
                       PART 2

WORK STAGES OF PLATFORM SERVICES

First column  Second column                       Third column

Platform      Work stage 1                        Work stage 2
 service

1. Delivery   The stage of work beginning         (a) except where
   service    when the platform worker                 paragraph (b) applies,
              begins to travel to the collection       the stage of work
              location, and ending —                   beginning when the
                                                       platform worker, after
              (a) where the platform                   collecting the goods or
                   worker uses a vehicle to            items for delivery from
                   perform a task in the               the collection location,
                   provision of the delivery           leaves that location and
                   service — when the                  ending —
                   platform worker, after
                   collecting the goods or                (i) where the
                   items for delivery from                     platform worker
                   the collection location,                    uses a vehicle to
                   returns to the vehicle; or                  perform a task in
                                                               the provision of
              (b) in any other case — when                     the delivery
                   the platform worker                         service — when
                   leaves the collection                       the platform
                   location.                                   worker, after
                                                               delivering or
                                                               attempting to
                                                               deliver the goods
                                                               or items at the
                                                               delivery location,
                                                               returns to the
                                                               vehicle; or

                                                  (ii) in any other
                                                       case — when the
                                                       platform worker
                                                       leaves the
                                                       delivery location;
                                                       and

                                                  (b) where the platform
                                                       worker, after collecting
                                                       the goods or items for
                                                       delivery from the
                                                       collection location,
                                                       proceeds to an interim
                                                       location before
                                                       delivering the goods or
                                                       items, the stage of work

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
216                NO. 30 OF 2024

     NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                                     beginning when the
                                                     platform worker leaves
                                                     the interim location and
                                                     ending —

                                                     (i) where the
                                                         platform worker
                                                         uses a vehicle to
                                                         perform a task in
                                                         the provision of
                                                         the delivery
                                                         service — when
                                                         the platform
                                                         worker, after
                                                         delivering or
                                                         attempting to
                                                         deliver the goods
                                                         or items at the
                                                         delivery location,
                                                         returns to the
                                                         vehicle; or

                                                     (ii) in any other
                                                          case — when the
                                                          platform worker
                                                          leaves the
                                                          delivery location.

     2. Ride‑hail  The stage of work —               The stage of work —
        service
                   (a) beginning when the            (a) beginning when the
                        platform worker begins            platform worker leaves
                        to travel to the pick‑up          the pick‑up location; and
                        location; and
                                                     (b) ending when —
                   (b) ending when the platform
                        worker —                             (i) the passenger or
                                                                  hirer; or
                           (i) picks up the
                                passenger or hirer;          (ii) where a task
                                or                                involves
                                                                  conveying more
                           (ii) where a task                      than one
                                involves                          passenger or
                                conveying more                    hirer — the last
                                than one passenger                passenger or
                                or hirer — picks                  hirer,
                                up the last
                                passenger or hirer,       alights at the drop‑off
                                                          location.
                        at the pick‑up location.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         217

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                     PART 3

 AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION FOR PLATFORM WORKERS

 1.—(1) Where death results from a work injury, the amount of
compensation payable must be paid in a lump sum, obtained by
multiplying the AME of the deceased platform worker by the
appropriate factor in the second column of Table A according to the
age on the next birthday of the deceased platform worker at the time of
the accident as specified in the first column of Table A:

              TABLE A

First column            Second column
     Age               Multiplying factor

14 and below                   136
      15                       135
      16                       135
      17                       134
      18                       134
      19                       133
      20                       132
      21                       132
      22                       131
      23                       130
      24                       129
      25                       128
      26                       127
      27                       127
      28                       125
      29                       124
      30                       123
      31                       122
      32                       121
      33                       120
      34                       118

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
218  NO. 30 OF 2024

     NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     35                          117

     36                          115

     37                          114

     38                          112

     39                          110

     40                          108

     41                          107

     42                          106

     43                          105

     44                          104

     45                          103

     46                          102

     47                          101

     48                          100

     49                          98

     50                          96

     51                          94

     52                          92

     53                          90

     54                          88

     55                          86

     56                          84

     57                          82

     58                          80

     59                          78

     60                          75

     61                          72

     62                          68

     63                          63

     64                          58

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         219

NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

65                          53

66 and above                48.

 (2) The compensation payable under this paragraph is in no case to be
more than $225,000 or less than $76,000.

 2. Where a platform worker has permanent total incapacity or current
total incapacity resulting from a work injury, the amount of
compensation calculated in accordance with the formula C + 0.25C
must be paid in a lump sum, where C is —

        (a) subject to sub‑paragraphs (b) and (c), an amount obtained
             by multiplying the AME of the platform worker by the
             appropriate factor in the second column of Table B
             according to the age on the next birthday of the platform
             worker at the time of the accident as specified in the first
             column of Table B:

              TABLE B

First column            Second column
     Age               Multiplying factor

14 and below                   181
      15                       180
      16                       179
      17                       178
      18                       178
      19                       177
      20                       176
      21                       175
      22                       174
      23                       173
      24                       172
      25                       170
      26                       169
      27                       168
      28                       167

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
220  NO. 30 OF 2024

     NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     29                          165

     30                          164

     31                          162

     32                          160

     33                          159

     34                          157

     35                          155

     36                          153

     37                          151

     38                          149

     39                          146

     40                          144

     41                          142

     42                          140

     43                          138

     44                          136

     45                          134

     46                          132

     47                          130

     48                          128

     49                          126

     50                          124

     51                          122

     52                          120

     53                          118

     54                          116

     55                          114

     56                          111

     57                          108

     58                          105

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         221

NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

59                          102

60                          99

61                          96

62                          92

63                          87

64                          82

65                          77

66 and above                72;

        (b) if the amount obtained under sub‑paragraph (a) is less than
             $97,000 — $97,000; and

        (c) if the amount obtained under sub‑paragraph (a) is more than
             $289,000 — $289,000.

 3.—(1) Where a platform worker has permanent partial incapacity or
current partial incapacity resulting from a work injury, the amount of
compensation is to be calculated —

        (a) in the case of an injury specified in the Fourth Schedule —
             by multiplying C (mentioned in paragraph 2) by the
             percentage of loss of earning capacity caused by the
             injury as specified in that Schedule; and

        (b) in the case of an injury not specified in the
             Fourth Schedule — by multiplying C (mentioned in
             paragraph 2) by the percentage of loss of earning capacity
             caused by the injury (assuming that it is permanent) in
             relation to the relevant platform service the platform worker
             was providing at the time of the accident that resulted in the
             incapacity.

 (2) Where more injuries than one are caused by the same accident the
amount of compensation payable in respect of all such injuries are to be
aggregated but not so as to exceed in any case the amount which would
have been payable in respect of permanent total incapacity.

 4.—(1) Subject to sub‑paragraphs (2) and (3), where temporary
incapacity results from a work injury, the platform worker is entitled
(for each day within a period of one year starting on the date of the
accident that caused the work injury that the platform worker is on
hospitalisation leave or medical leave granted due to the work injury) to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
222  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     periodical payments based on any one of the following amounts, as the
     case may be:

             (a) for the first 60 days of hospitalisation leave — the platform
                  worker’s ADE;

             (b) for any subsequent days of hospitalisation leave —
                  two‑thirds of the platform worker’s ADE;

             (c) for the first 14 days of medical leave — the platform
                  worker’s ADE;

             (d) for any subsequent days of medical leave — two‑thirds of
                  the platform worker’s ADE.

      (2) Where the platform worker’s ADE is unavailable for the relevant
     platform service during the lookback period, the platform worker is
     entitled (for each day within a period of one year starting on the date of
     the accident that caused the work injury that the platform worker is on
     hospitalisation leave or medical leave granted due to the work injury) to
     periodical payments computed in accordance with the formula $27 × D,
     where D is the number of days the platform worker is on hospitalisation
     leave or medical leave.

      (3) No payment under sub‑paragraph (1) or (2) is to be deducted from
     the lump sum payable under paragraph 2 or 3 in respect of any
     permanent incapacity or current incapacity which follows any period of
     temporary incapacity.

      (4) If the temporary incapacity of the platform worker ceases before
     the date on which any payment under sub‑paragraph (1) or (2) falls due,
     the platform worker must be paid an amount as is appropriate to the
     duration of the temporary incapacity.

      (5) Where the platform worker’s platform work agreement is
     terminated after the accident causing the work injury, the platform
     worker’s entitlement under sub‑paragraph (1) or (2) also applies when
     the platform worker is on hospitalisation leave or medical leave that is
     granted after that termination.

      (6) For the purposes of this paragraph, where a platform worker is
     certified by a health professional of an approved medical institution to
     be ill enough to need to be hospitalised but the platform worker is not
     hospitalised for any reason whatsoever, the platform worker is deemed
     to be hospitalised.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         223

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

 5.—(1) Any compensation payable by a platform operator for the
medical treatment received by a platform worker in relation to the
platform worker’s work injury is the lower of the following amounts:

        (a) the cost of medical treatment received by the platform
             worker within a period of one year after the date of the
             accident causing the injury;

        (b) $45,000 per accident per platform worker.

 (2) To avoid doubt, the cost of medical treatment includes, but is not
limited to —

        (a) the charges in connection with an emergency medical
             transport for the conveyance of an injured platform worker
             to receive medical treatment;

        (b) the fees for medical reports required for the purposes of this
             Act;

        (c) the charges for physiotherapy and occupational and speech
             therapy;

        (d) the charges for case management, psychotherapy for the
             treatment of post‑traumatic stress disorder, functional
             capacity evaluation and worksite assessment, required for
             the purposes of rehabilitating and enabling an injured
             platform worker to return to work;

        (e) the cost of medicines, artificial limbs and surgical
             appliances; and

         (f) the charges and fees for medical examination and
             consultation related to medical treatment.

 6.—(1) In this Part —

        (a) a platform worker’s AME from the provision of a platform
             service is computed according to the formula A × 30, where
             A is the platform worker’s ADE;

        (b) a platform worker’s ADE from the provision of a platform
             service is computed according to the formula
             R × (100% − F), where —

                  (i) R is the relevant daily earnings of the platform
                      worker; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
224  NO. 30 OF 2024

     NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

     (ii) F is —

     (A) where the platform worker performed the task
          exclusively or primarily on foot, by public
          transport or by using a bicycle (not being
          power assisted) — 20%;

     (B) where the platform worker performed the task
          exclusively or primarily by using a personal
          mobility device, power‑assisted bicycle or
          motorcycle — 35%; or

     (C) where the platform worker performed the task
          exclusively or primarily by using a motor
          vehicle other than a motorcycle — 60%; and

     (c) the relevant daily earnings of a platform worker is computed

     according  to  the  formula  E  , where —
                                  P

     (i) E is the relevant earnings of the platform worker
         determined in accordance with sub‑paragraph (3);
         and

     (ii) P is determined as follows:

     (A) where the platform worker was at work
          providing the platform service for less than
          90 days immediately before the date of the
          accident — the number of days that the
          platform worker was at work providing that
          platform service;

     (B) in any other case — 90.

      (2) For the purposes of this Part, the lookback period, in relation to a
     platform worker’s provision of a platform service, is determined as
     follows:

     (a) where the platform worker was at work providing the
          platform service for at least 90 days immediately before the
          date of the accident — the period of 90 days immediately
          before the date of the accident;

     (b) where the platform worker —

     (i) was at work providing the platform service for at
         least 90 days immediately before the date of the
         accident; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         225

              NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                 (ii) during the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i),
                      was on hospitalisation leave or medical leave for 7
                      or more consecutive days,

        (b) the period immediately preceding the date of the accident
             computed using the formula 90 + B, where B is the number
             of days that the platform worker was on hospitalisation
             leave or medical leave;

        (c) where the platform worker was at work providing the
             platform service for less than 90 days immediately before
             the date of the accident — the number of days that the
             platform worker was at work providing that platform
             service.

 (3) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1)(c)(i) and subject to
sub‑paragraph (4), the relevant earnings of a platform worker are
determined as follows:

        (a) where the platform worker, at the time of the accident, was
             at work providing a platform service for a platform
             operator — the aggregate of the platform worker’s task
             earnings during the lookback period from providing that
             platform service for any platform operator;

        (b) where the platform worker, at the time of the accident, was
             at work providing 2 or more platform services concurrently
             for a platform operator — the aggregate of the platform
             worker’s task earnings during the lookback period from
             providing the relevant platform service for any platform
             operator;

        (c) where the platform worker, at the time of the accident, was
             at work providing a platform service for 2 or more platform
             operators concurrently — the aggregate of the platform
             worker’s task earnings during the lookback period from
             providing that platform service for all of those platform
             operators;

        (d) where the platform worker, at the time of the accident, was
             at work providing 2 or more platform services for 2 or more
             platform operators concurrently — the aggregate of the
             platform worker’s task earnings during the lookback period
             from providing the relevant platform service for any one or
             more of those platform operators.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
226  NO. 30 OF 2024

                   NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

      (4) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (3), where the platform
     worker —

             (a) was at work providing the platform service for at least
                  90 days immediately before the date of the accident; and

             (b) during the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a), was on
                  hospitalisation leave or medical leave for 7 or more
                  consecutive days,

     the relevant earnings of the platform worker do not include the platform
     worker’s task earnings (if any) during the period that the platform
     worker was on hospitalisation leave or medical leave.

      (5) The Commissioner may disregard any period or adjust the amount
     of the earnings of the platform worker in any period if the
     Commissioner is of the view that the earnings for that period do not
     accurately reflect the platform worker’s AME.

      (6) In this paragraph —

           “bicycle” means a vehicle that —

                     (a) has 2 wheels held one behind the other in a frame;

                     (b) is steered by handlebars attached to the front wheel;

                     (c) has pedals; and

                     (d) is built to be propelled solely by human power;

           “motor vehicle” means a vehicle that —

                     (a) is propelled wholly or partly by a motor or by any
                          means other than human or animal power; and

                     (b) is used or intended to be used on any road;

           “personal mobility device” and “power‑assisted bicycle” have the
              meanings given by section 2(1) of the Active Mobility
              Act 2017;

           “task earnings”, in relation to a platform worker, means the
              platform worker’s earnings for performing a task in relation to
              the platform worker’s provision of a platform service.

      7. In this Part, “relevant platform service”, in relation to a platform
     worker, means the platform service for which the platform worker has
     the highest earnings during the lookback period, having regard to the
     platform worker’s earnings for every platform service he or she
     provides.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         227

             NINTH SCHEDULE — continued

                      SIXTH SCHEDULE

                                                             Section 34D(2)(a)(ii) and (iii)(B)

       APPLICABLE WRITTEN LAW FOR PURPOSES OF
                             SECTION 34D(2)
                                   PART 1

   WRITTEN LAW RELATING TO PLATFORM WORKER’S
USE OF VEHICLES IN PROVISION OF PLATFORM SERVICE
 1. Active Mobility Act 2017 — Section 23D(1) or 28B(1)
 2. Road Traffic Act 1961 — Section 35(1) or 47G(1)

                                     PART 2

WRITTEN LAW RELATING TO VEHICLE USED BY PLATFORM
        WORKER IN PROVISION OF PLATFORM SERVICE

  1. Active Mobility Act 2017 — Section 19

  2. Road Traffic Act 1961 — Any rules relating to the construction
      and equipment of vehicles made pursuant to section 6.”.

                            TENTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 103

   AMENDMENT OF WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH ACT 2006

Amendment of section 4

 1. In the Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006 (called in this Schedule the
WSHA), in section 4(1) —

        (a) in the definition of “at work”, after paragraph (a), insert —

                     “(aa) in relation to a platform worker, all times when the

                                 platform worker is providing any platform service for
                                 a platform operator, wherever the platform service is
                                 provided;”;

        (b) replace the definition of “contractor” with —

                   “ “contractor” —

                                    (a) means a person engaged by another person
                                         (called in this Act the principal) otherwise than
                                         under a contract of service —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
228  NO. 30 OF 2024

                       TENTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                            (i) to supply any labour for gain or
                                                reward; or

                                           (ii) to do any work for gain or reward,

                                (a) in connection with any trade, business,
                                     profession or undertaking carried on by the
                                     principal; but

                                (b) does not include a platform worker who
                                     provides a platform service for a platform
                                     operator;”;

     (c) in the definition of “occupational disease”, after “employment”, insert
          “or the provision of any platform service, as the case may be”;

     (d) after the definition of “owner”, insert —

                “ “platform operator” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
                     Platform Workers Act 2024;

                   “platform service” has the meaning given by section 3 of the
                      Platform Workers Act 2024;

                   “platform work agreement” has the meaning given by section 2
                      of the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                   “platform worker” has the meaning given by section 5(1) of the
                      Platform Workers Act 2024;”;

     (e) replace the definition of “principal” with —

                “ “principal” means a person who, in connection with any trade,
                     business, profession or undertaking carried on by the person,
                     engages any other person otherwise than under a contract of
                     service —

                                (a) to supply any labour for gain or reward; or

                                (b) to do any work for gain or reward,

                     but does not include a platform operator that, in connection
                     with the provision of a platform service, engages any
                     platform worker under a platform work agreement;”;

     (f) replace the definition of “self‑employed person” with —

                “ “self‑employed person” —

                                (a) means a person who works for gain or reward
                                     otherwise than under a contract of service,
                                     whether or not employing others; but

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         229

                           TENTH SCHEDULE — continued

                                    (b) does not include a platform worker;”; and

        (g) replace the definition of “subcontractor” with —

                   “ “subcontractor” —

                                    (a) means a person engaged (otherwise than under
                                         a contract of service) by any contractor or
                                         subcontractor —

                                               (i) to supply any labour for gain or
                                                    reward; or

                                              (ii) to do any work for gain or reward,

                                    (a) which the contractor or subcontractor has been
                                         engaged as contractor or subcontractor (as the
                                         case may be) to do; but

                                    (b) does not include a platform worker who
                                         provides a platform service for a platform
                                         operator;”.

Amendment of section 10

 2. In the WSHA, in section 10(a), after sub‑paragraph (iv), insert —

                     “(iva) a platform operator;

                          (ivb) a platform worker;”.

New section 12A

 3. In the WSHA, after section 12, insert —

         “Duties of platform operators

            12A.—(1) It is the duty of every platform operator to take, so far as is
           reasonably practicable, such measures as are necessary to ensure the
           safety and health of the platform operator’s platform workers at work.

            (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the measures necessary to
           ensure the safety and health of platform workers at work include —

                   (a) providing and maintaining for those platform workers a work
                         environment which is safe, without risk to health, and
                         adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their
                         welfare at work;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
230  NO. 30 OF 2024

                           TENTH SCHEDULE — continued

                   (b) ensuring that those platform workers take adequate safety
                         measures in respect of any machinery, equipment, plant,
                         article or process used by those platform workers;

                    (c) ensuring that those platform workers are not exposed to
                         hazards arising out of the platform operator’s arrangements
                         and processes for, and organisation of, the provision of the
                         platform service;

                   (d) developing and implementing procedures for dealing with
                         emergencies that may arise while those platform workers are
                         at work; and

                    (e) ensuring that those platform workers at work have adequate
                         instruction, information, training and supervision as is
                         necessary for them to perform their work.”.

Amendment of section 15

 4. In the WSHA, in section 15(1)(b) —

        (a) replace “employer or principal” with “employer, principal or platform
             operator”; and

        (b) replace “employer, principal” with “employer, principal, platform
             operator”.

Amendment of section 18

 5. In the WSHA, in section 18 —

        (a) in the section heading, replace “and employers” with “, employers
             and platform operators”;

        (b) after subsection (2), insert —

                 “(2A) A platform operator must not —

                            (a) deduct, or allow to be deducted, from the earnings of
                                 any platform worker relating to the platform worker’s
                                 provision of a platform service for the platform
                                 operator; or

                            (b) receive, or allow any agent of the platform operator to
                                 receive, any payment from any platform worker who
                                 is providing or has provided a platform service for the
                                 platform operator,

                   in respect of anything to be done or provided by the platform
                   operator in accordance with this Act in order to ensure the safety,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
PLATFORM WORKERS                                         231

                           TENTH SCHEDULE — continued

                   health or welfare of any of the platform operator’s platform
                   workers at work.

                     (2B) A platform operator must not —

                            (a) terminate or threaten to terminate a platform work
                                 agreement with any platform worker; or

                            (b) refuse or threaten to refuse to assign to or facilitate for
                                 any platform worker, or prevent or threaten to prevent
                                 any platform worker from receiving or obtaining, any
                                 tasks to be performed in relation to the provision of
                                 any platform service for the platform operator,

                   because the platform worker —

                            (c) has assisted (whether by the giving of information or
                                 otherwise) an inspector or authorised person or any
                                 other public authority in the conduct of any inspection
                                 or investigation under this Act for a breach or an
                                 alleged breach of this Act, or proposes to do so;

                            (d) has in good faith sought the assistance of, or made a
                                 report to, an inspector or authorised person in relation
                                 to a safety and health matter, or proposes to do so; or

                            (e) has complied with an order made under section 21 or
                                 otherwise complied with this Act, or proposes to do
                                 so.”; and

        (c) in subsection (5), replace “or (2)” with “, (2), (2A) or (2B)”.

Amendment of section 27

 6. In the WSHA, in section 27(1), after “an employer,”, insert “a platform
operator,”.

Amendment of section 65

 7. In the WSHA, in section 65 —

        (a) in subsection (2)(v) and (w), after “employer”, insert “, platform
             operator”; and

        (b) in subsection (4), after “employer,”, insert “platform operator,”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
