THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           CIVIL DEFENCE SHELTER ACT 1997

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                              2020 Ed.

Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
                HOUSEHOLD AND STOREY SHELTERS

3. Provision of household and storey shelters
4. Duties in relation to household and storey shelters

                                       PART 3

                              PUBLIC SHELTERS

5. Provision of public shelters in non-residential buildings owned
       by statutory boards

6. Duties in relation to public shelters

                                       PART 4

                           IMPROVISED SHELTERS

7. Commissioner may designate part of building as improvised
       shelter

8. Duties in relation to improvised shelters

                                        PART 5

         USE OF SHELTERS DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY

 9. Preparatory works for occupation of shelters
10. Entry into shelters during operation of this Part
11. Duties of owner or occupier of part of building which consists of

         shelter during state of emergency

                        1

                                                                 31.12.2021
2        Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

         PART 6

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Permitted uses of shelter
         Commissioner to administer Act and may delegate authority
   12.   Specifications for construction of shelters
   13.   Powers of entry
   14.   Authorised persons may make forcible entry
   15.   Furnishing of information
   16.   Obstructing authorised persons in execution of duty
   17.   Service of notices, etc.
   18.   Inaccuracies in documents
   19.   Immunity from suit
   20.   Jurisdiction of Courts
   21.   Conduct of prosecutions
   22.   Evidence
   23.   Offence by body corporate
   24.   Composition of offences
   25.   Exemption
   26.   Regulations
   27.   The Schedule — Public shelters deemed to be provided under
   28.
                               this Act

An Act relating to the provision of civil defence shelters for use
  during a state of emergency and for matters connected therewith.

                                       [1 May 1998: Except Parts 4 and 5]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1.—(1) This Act is the Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997.
 (2) Parts 4 and 5 do not come into operation except at the time and
for the duration and in the manner provided in subsections (3) and (4).
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997        3

(3) Whenever it appears to the Minister that —

(a) a Proclamation of Emergency by the President under
     Article 150 of the Constitution or a declaration of a state of
     civil defence emergency by the Minister under Part 12 of
     the Civil Defence Act 1986 is imminent; and

(b) it is necessary or expedient to do so for the securing of
     public safety,

the Minister may by order direct that all or any of the provisions of
Parts 4 and 5 are to come into operation and the provisions of those
Parts specified in the order are to come into operation and remain in
operation for such period as may be specified in the order.

 (4) An order made under subsection (3) is not to be in force for a
period exceeding 7 days from the commencement of the order unless
it has been made with the approval of the President.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised person” means any person authorised by the
         Commissioner in writing in accordance with this Act to
         carry out any duty or exercise any power under this Act or the
         regulations;

      “building” means any permanent building or tenement and
         includes —

              (a) any structure or erection of whatever kind or nature;
                   and

              (b) any building to be erected within a stratum shown or
                   specified in any strata subdivision plan submitted for
                   approval under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967;

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Civil Defence
         appointed under section 6 of the Civil Defence Act 1986;

      “competent authority” means the competent authority appointed
         under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998;

                                                31.12.2021
4  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997                        2020 Ed.

   “flat” means a horizontal stratum of a building or part thereof,
      whether such stratum is on one or more levels or is partially
      or wholly below the surface of the ground, which is wholly
      and principally constructed, adapted or intended to be used as
      a complete and separate unit for private dwelling, but does
      not include any part of any building which is constructed,
      adapted or intended to be used as a hotel, hostel, dormitory or
      nursing home or for any other prescribed purposes;

   “Force” has the meaning given by the Civil Defence Act 1986;

   “house” means a building or any part thereof which is wholly
      and principally constructed, adapted or intended to be used
      for private dwelling, but does not include a flat or any
      building or part thereof which is constructed, adapted or
      intended to be used as a hotel, hostel, dormitory or nursing
      home or for any other prescribed purposes;

   “household shelter” means a shelter in a house or flat for the use,
      primarily, of the occupants of that house or flat and of persons
      ordinarily frequenting that house or flat, during a state of
      emergency;

   “improvised shelter” means any building or part thereof which
      has been designated by the Commissioner under section 7 as
      a shelter for the use of any person needing to take refuge
      therein during a state of emergency;

   “new building” means a building —

   (a) which is constructed on vacant land or in place of a
        building which has been demolished; and

   (b) the plans in respect of which are submitted to or
        lodged with the competent authority under the
        Planning Act 1998 on or after 1 May 1998;

   “new flat” means a flat comprised in a new building;

   “new house” means a house —

   (a) which is constructed on vacant land or in place of a
        building which has been demolished; and
2020 Ed.      Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  5

          (b) the plans in respect of which are submitted to or
               lodged with the competent authority under the
               Planning Act 1998 on or after 1 May 1998;

“non-residential building” means a building which is wholly or
   principally constructed, adapted or intended to be used for
   any purpose other than for private dwelling;

“occupier” —

          (a) in relation to any building, means the person in
               occupation of the building or having the charge,
               management or control thereof; and

          (b) in relation to any part of any building different parts
               of which are occupied by different persons, means
               the person in occupation or having the charge,
               management or control of that part,

          whether on the person’s own account or as agent of another
          person;

“owner” —

          (a) in relation to any building or part thereof, includes
               any mortgagee in possession and any person for the
               time being receiving the rent of the building or part
               thereof whether on the person’s own account or as
               agent or trustee or as receiver, or who would receive
               the rent if the building or part thereof were let to a
               tenant, and any person whose name is entered in the
               Valuation List prepared under section 10 of the
               Property Tax Act 1960 as the owner of the building or
               part thereof;

          (b) in relation to the common property of any building
               erected on land comprised in a strata subdivision plan
               approved by the competent authority, means the
               management corporation having control of the
               building;

                                              31.12.2021
6  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997                          2020 Ed.

   (c) in relation to the limited common property of any
       building erected on land comprised in a strata
       subdivision plan approved by the competent
       authority, means the subsidiary management
       corporation having control of that limited common
       property; and

   (d) in relation to the common property of any building
        comprising flats sold under Part 4 of the Housing and
        Development Act 1959, means the Town Council
        which is liable for the maintenance and management
        of that common property;

   “public shelter” means a shelter in any building or part thereof
      for the use of any person needing to take refuge therein
      during a state of emergency;

   “regulations” means regulations made under section 28;

   “shelter” means any part of any building which has been
      constructed or adapted in accordance with the specifications
      as a shelter in which a person may take refuge during a state
      of emergency, and includes a household shelter, a storey
      shelter, a public shelter and an improvised shelter;

   “specifications” —

   (a) means the specifications, technical codes and
        standards issued by the Commissioner under
        section 14; and

   (b) in relation to any building, house or flat in respect of
        which the Commissioner has modified the
        requirements of any of the specifications, means
        the specifications as so modified;

   “state of emergency” means the period when there is in force —

   (a) a Proclamation of Emergency issued by the President
        under Article 150 of the Constitution; or

   (b) a declaration of a state of civil defence emergency
        made by the Minister under Part 12 of the Civil
        Defence Act 1986;
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  7

“storey shelter” means a shelter located on any storey of a
   building which is subdivided into flats for the use, primarily,
   of the occupants of, and of persons ordinarily frequenting, the
   flats on that storey of the building.

                                          [47/2004]

 (2) Any household shelter or storey shelter which has been
provided in any house, flat or building (as the case may be) before
1 May 1998 with the approval of the Commissioner is deemed to be a
household shelter or storey shelter provided under this Act.

 (3) The public shelters specified in the Schedule and any other
public shelter which has been provided in any building before 1 May
1998 with the approval of the Commissioner are deemed to be public
shelters provided under this Act.

                                    PART 2

              HOUSEHOLD AND STOREY SHELTERS

Provision of household and storey shelters
 3.—(1) Every new house must be provided with a household shelter

in accordance with the specifications.

 (2) Every new building which is to be subdivided into flats must be
provided with —

       (a) a household shelter in accordance with the specifications in
            every flat in that building; or

       (b) in lieu of a household shelter being provided in every flat
            on any storey of the building, at least one storey shelter in
            accordance with the specifications on that storey of the
            building.

Duties in relation to household and storey shelters
 4.—(1) Where —
       (a) any house or flat is provided with a household shelter
            under this Act; or

                                          31.12.2021
8  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

   (b) any part of any building consists of a storey shelter
        provided under this Act,

the owner or occupier of the house, flat, building or part thereof —

   (c) must not carry out or permit another person to carry out
       therein, any repair or alteration, or anything else, which is
       likely to damage or otherwise impair the efficient use of
       the household or storey shelter as such, except with the
       written permission of the Commissioner and subject to
       such conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit;

   (d) must maintain the household or storey shelter in
        accordance with the regulations and such other directions
        as the Commissioner may give from time to time; and

   (e) must carry out such works for the maintenance, alteration
       or improvement of the household or storey shelter or for
       the installation of any equipment in the household or storey
       shelter as the Commissioner may, from time to time, by
       writing require.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 3

                            PUBLIC SHELTERS

Provision of public shelters in non-residential buildings owned
by statutory boards

 5. The Commissioner may require any statutory board to provide a
public shelter in accordance with the specifications in any new
non-residential building which is owned by the statutory board and
the statutory board must comply with the Commissioner’s
requirement.
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  9

Duties in relation to public shelters

 6.—(1) Where any part of a building consists of a public shelter
provided under this Act, the owner or occupier of the building or part
thereof —

(a) must not carry out or permit another person to carry out
     therein, any repair or alteration, or anything else, which is
     likely to damage or otherwise impair the efficient use of
     the public shelter as such, except with the written
     permission of the Commissioner and subject to such
     conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit;

(b) must maintain the public shelter in accordance with the
     regulations and such other directions as the Commissioner
     may give from time to time; and

          (c) must carry out such works for the maintenance, alteration
              or improvement of the public shelter or for the installation
              of any equipment in the public shelter as the Commissioner
              may, from time to time, by writing require.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                    PART 4

                        IMPROVISED SHELTERS

Commissioner may designate part of building as improvised
shelter

 7.—(1) If, during the period in which this Part is in operation, the
Commissioner is satisfied that any part of any building is suitable for
use as a shelter, the Commissioner may designate that part of the
building as an improvised shelter and must inform the owner or
occupier of the building or part of the building of the designation.

                                          31.12.2021
10  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

 (2) Any part of any building which has been designated by the
Commissioner as an improvised shelter pursuant to subsection (1)
ceases to be an improvised shelter when this Part ceases to be in
operation, unless the designation is sooner revoked by the
Commissioner.

Duties in relation to improvised shelters

 8.—(1) Where any part of any building has been designated as an
improvised shelter pursuant to section 7, the owner or occupier of the
building or part thereof —

       (a) must not carry out or permit another person to carry out
            therein, any repair or alteration, or anything else, which is
            likely to damage or otherwise impair the efficient use of
            the improvised shelter as such, except with the written
            permission of the Commissioner and subject to such
            conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit;

       (b) must maintain the improvised shelter in accordance with
            the regulations and such other directions as the
            Commissioner may give from time to time; and

       (c) must carry out such works for the maintenance, alteration
            or improvement of the improvised shelter or for the
            installation of any equipment in the improvised shelter as
            the Commissioner may, from time to time, by writing
            require.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997      11

          PART 5

USE OF SHELTERS DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY

Preparatory works for occupation of shelters

 9.—(1) The Commissioner may, during the period when this Part is
in operation, serve a notice on the owner or occupier of —

(a) any house or flat which is provided with a household
     shelter under this Act; and

(b) any part of any building which —

          (i) consists of a storey shelter or public shelter provided
              under this Act; or

          (ii) has been designated as an improvised shelter
               pursuant to section 7,

requiring the owner or occupier within the period specified in the
notice to prepare the household shelter, storey shelter, public shelter
or improvised shelter (as the case may be) for occupation by persons
needing to take refuge in the shelter during a state of emergency.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with a notice served on the
person under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

Entry into shelters during operation of this Part

 10.—(1) Where pursuant to section 9 a notice is served on the
owner or occupier of any part of any building which consists of a
storey shelter, a public shelter or an improvised shelter and the owner
or occupier fails to comply with any of the requirements of the notice
within the time specified in the notice, the Commissioner or an
authorised person may —

       (a) enter that part of the building which consists of the storey
            shelter, public shelter or improvised shelter (as the case
            may be) and carry out or cause to be carried out in relation
            to the shelter such acts or works (including the seizure and

                                              31.12.2021
12  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

    removal of any property) as may be necessary to prepare
    the shelter for occupation by persons needing to take
    refuge in the shelter during a state of emergency; and

    (b) recover any costs and expenses incurred by doing the acts
         or works mentioned in paragraph (a) from the owner or
         occupier.

 (2) The Government shall not be liable for any loss of or damage to
any property seized or removed by the Commissioner or authorised
person in exercise of the powers under subsection (1).

Duties of owner or occupier of part of building which consists
of shelter during state of emergency

 11.—(1) The owner or occupier of any part of any building which
consists of a storey shelter, a public shelter or an improvised shelter is
bound, during the periods required or designated by the Minister —

       (a) to permit any person to enter and take refuge in the storey
            shelter, public shelter or improvised shelter, as the case
            may be; and

       (b) to permit any person authorised by the Commissioner to
            occupy or use the storey shelter, public shelter or
            improvised shelter for any purpose the Commissioner
            may require.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), any person who fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence under
subsection (2) for the person charged with the offence to prove to
the satisfaction of the court that the person took all reasonable steps to
ensure that all persons who needed to enter and take refuge in the
storey shelter, public shelter or improvised shelter (as the case may
be) were allowed to do so.
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997            13

                           PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS

Permitted uses of shelter

 12.—(1) The owner or occupier of any part of a building which
consists of a shelter may, at any time other than the period when an
order made under section 1(3) is in operation, use such part of the
building for such purposes as may be —

(a) prescribed by the regulations;

(b) approved by the Commissioner in writing; or

          (c) allowed under any other written law.

 (2) A person must not change the use of any part of any building
which consists of a shelter without the prior written approval of the
Commissioner.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with this section shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Commissioner to administer Act and may delegate authority

 13.—(1) The Commissioner is responsible for the administration of
this Act.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the powers conferred and the
duties imposed on the Commissioner under this Act or the regulations
may generally or specifically be exercised and carried out by any
person generally or specifically authorised by name or office by the
Commissioner.

                                                    31.12.2021
14  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997           2020 Ed.

Specifications for construction of shelters

14. The Commissioner may —

    (a) issue or approve and, from time to time, review and amend
         the specifications, technical codes and standards relating to
         the design, construction and maintenance of shelters to be
         provided under this Act and the equipment to be installed
         in the shelters; and

    (b) if circumstances so require, modify, subject to such
         conditions as the Commissioner may impose, the
         requirements of any of the specifications in respect of
         any building, house or flat in which a shelter is to be
         provided under this Act.

Powers of entry

 15.—(1) The Commissioner or any authorised person on
producing, if so required, evidence of his or her authority has a
right to enter and inspect, at all reasonable hours —

       (a) any building or part thereof for the purpose of ascertaining
            whether any part of the building is suitable or required for
            use as an improvised shelter;

       (b) any building or part thereof in which a shelter is being
            constructed for the purpose of ascertaining whether there is
            or has been any contravention of any of the provisions of
            this Act, the regulations or any specifications; and

       (c) any shelter for the purpose of —

               (i) ascertaining whether there is or has been any
                   contravention of any of the provisions of this Act
                   or the regulations;

              (ii) ensuring that the shelter is suitable for use as such; or

             (iii) performing the duties or exercising the powers of the
                   Commissioner under this Act, the regulations or any
                   other written law.
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  15

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1)(a), the Commissioner or
authorised person may require the owner or occupier of the building
or part thereof being inspected to —

(a) produce to the Commissioner or authorised person for
     inspection; or

(b) supply the Commissioner or authorised person with copies
     of,

any plans, records and other documents relating to the building or part
thereof being inspected as may be in the possession, custody or
control of the owner or occupier, either forthwith or at such time and
place as may be specified by the Commissioner or authorised person.

 (3) The Commissioner or any authorised person must not exercise
the right of entry conferred by subsection (1)(a) unless at least
24 hours’ notice of the intended entry has been given to the owner or
occupier of the building or part thereof to be inspected.

Authorised persons may make forcible entry

 16.—(1) When any storey shelter, public shelter or improvised
shelter liable to inspection under section 15 is closed, the owner or
occupier of the building or part thereof which consists of the storey
shelter, public shelter or improvised shelter must, on demand by the
Commissioner or any authorised person, allow the Commissioner or
authorised person free entry to the shelter and afford all reasonable
facilities for a search in the shelter.

 (2) If entry to the storey shelter, public shelter or improvised shelter
cannot be obtained, the Commissioner or authorised person may —

       (a) break open any outer or inner door or window leading to
            the storey shelter, public shelter or improvised shelter;

       (b) forcibly enter the storey shelter, public shelter or
            improvised shelter and every part of the shelter; or

       (c) remove by force any obstruction to such entry or search.

                                          31.12.2021
16  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

Furnishing of information

 17.—(1) Where any person appears to the Commissioner to be
acquainted with the circumstances of any case which is under
investigation, the Commissioner may by notice require such person
within such time as may be specified in the notice to furnish the
Commissioner with such information relating to that case as is within
that person’s knowledge or possession.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any notice under
subsection (1) or who furnishes any information which the person
knows or has reason to believe is false or misleading shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Obstructing authorised persons in execution of duty

 18. Any person who —

       (a) refuses the Commissioner or any authorised person access
            to any building or part thereof or otherwise hinders the
            Commissioner or authorised person in the performance of
            his or her duty; or

       (b) neglects to give any information which is reasonably
            required of the person and which is in the person’s power to
            give or which the person is required by this Act or the
            regulations to give,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Service of notices, etc.

 19.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act or the regulations to be served on any person may be served
on that person —

       (a) by delivering it personally to that person;
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  17

(b) by delivering it at the usual or last known place of
     residence, business or employment of that person to some
     adult member or employee of that person’s family or
     household or to some adult person who is apparently in
     charge of or is employed at the usual or last known place of
     business or employment of the person to be served;

          (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to that person at
              that person’s usual or last known place of residence,
              business or employment; or

(d) by affixing it to some conspicuous part of the building or
     part thereof of which that person is the owner or occupier.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), any notice, order or document
required or authorised by this Act or the regulations to be served on
any person during the period when an order made under section 1(3)
is in operation may be served on that person —

(a) by publishing it in the daily newspapers circulating in
     Singapore in all the official languages and in the Gazette;

(b) by broadcasting it over the radio and television in the
     prescribed manner;

          (c) by audible signals given in the prescribed manner over a
              public-address system or through a siren where such
              signals are audible from the usual or last known place of
              residence, business or employment of the person to be
              served;

(d) by reading the contents of the notice, order or document
     over the telephone to that person;

          (e) by reading the contents of the notice, order or document
              over the telephone to some adult member or employee of
              that person’s family or household; or

                                          31.12.2021
18  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

    (f) by sending it by fax, telex or any other prescribed means of
        telecommunication to the person to be served at the usual
        or last known place of residence, business or employment
        of that person where there is an acknowledgment by
        electronic or any other means to the effect that the order or
        notice has been received at that place.

 (3) Where a notice, order or document is served on any person
pursuant to —

    (a) subsection (1)(b), it is —

    (i) presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have been
        conveyed or read to the person to whom it applies at
        the time of delivery; and

    (ii) deemed to have been conveyed or read to the person
         to whom it applies on the expiry of 6 hours from the
         time of delivery;

    (b) subsection (1)(c), it is deemed to have been received and
         read by the person to whom it applies on the expiry of
         48 hours from the time at which it was delivered to the post
         office for despatch;

    (c) subsection (1)(d), it is deemed to have been received and
        read by the person to whom it applies on the expiry of
        24 hours from the time at which it was affixed to the
        building or part thereof;

    (d) subsection (2)(a), it is deemed to have been read by the
         person to whom it applies by noon on the day following the
         date of publication;

    (e) subsection (2)(b) or (c), it is deemed to have been seen or
        heard by the person to whom it applies on the expiry of
        6 hours from the commencement of the first broadcast or
        audible signal, as the case may be;

    (f) subsection (2)(e), it is —

    (i) presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have been
        conveyed to the person to whom it applies at the time
        of the telephone conversation; and
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  19

          (ii) deemed to have been conveyed to the person to
               whom it applies on the expiry of 6 hours from the
               time of the telephone conversation; or

(g) subsection (2)(f), it is —

          (i) presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have been
              received and read or heard by the person to whom it
              applies at the time of the first transmission; and

          (ii) deemed to have been received and read or heard by
               the person to whom it applies on the expiry of
               6 hours from the time of the first transmission.

 (4) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act or the regulations to be served on the owner or occupier of any
building or part thereof is deemed to be properly addressed if
addressed by the description of the “owner” or “occupier” of the
building or part thereof without further name or description.

 (5) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by this
Act or the regulations to be served on any person may be issued in
such form as the Commissioner may determine.

 (6) Where any such notice, order or document requires
authentication, the signature of the Commissioner or an authorised
person or an official facsimile of the signature appended to the notice,
order or document is sufficient authentication.

Inaccuracies in documents

 20.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person or
place named or described in any document prepared, issued or served
under, by virtue of or for the purposes of this Act or the regulations
affects, in any way, the operation of this Act or the regulations as
respects that person or place if that person or place is so designated in
the document as to be identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act or the
regulations are to be invalid for want of form.

                                          31.12.2021
20  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

Immunity from suit

 21. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government, the Commissioner or any authorised person or public
officer or any other person acting under the direction of the
Commissioner or an authorised person or public officer for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in the
execution or purported execution of this Act or the regulations.

Jurisdiction of Courts

 22. Despite the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a
District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to hear and
determine all offences under this Act or the regulations and has power
to impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of an offence
under this Act or the regulations.

Conduct of prosecutions

 23. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act or the
regulations may, with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be
conducted by any officer of the Force or any other person authorised
in writing in that behalf by the Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Evidence

 24.—(1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served
under, by virtue of or for the purposes of this Act or the regulations
are, until the contrary is proved, presumed to be correct.

 (2) All records and other documents required by this Act or the
regulations to be kept by the Commissioner are deemed to be public
documents.

 (3) A copy of or extract from any record or document mentioned in
subsection (2) that is —

       (a) certified by the officer responsible for the custody of the
            record or document to be a true copy or extract; and
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997             21

(b) subscribed by that officer with his or her name and official
     title,

is admissible in evidence as proof of its contents.

 (4) A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the
Commissioner and specifying the costs and expenses or arrears as
due and payable by any person is prima facie evidence of the facts
certified therein and of the signature of the Commissioner.

Offence by body corporate

 25. Where an offence under this Act or the regulations has been
committed by a body corporate, a partnership or an unincorporated
association of persons, any person who at the time of the commission
of the offence was a director, manager, partner, secretary or other
similar officer of the body corporate, partnership or unincorporated
association (as the case may be), or was purporting to act in any such
capacity shall be guilty of that offence unless the person proves
that —

       (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) the person had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

Composition of offences

 26.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act or the regulations that is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from the person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $500.

 (2) All sums received under subsection (1) must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Exemption

 27. The Minister may, by order either generally or in any particular
case, and subject to such conditions as the Minister may impose,

                                                     31.12.2021
22  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  2020 Ed.

exempt any person or building or part thereof from all or any of the
provisions of this Act or the regulations.

Regulations

 28.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act as the Minister considers
necessary and for any matter which is required under this Act to be
prescribed and, in particular, the Minister may make regulations —

       (a) to regulate and control the use and maintenance of shelters
            during a state of emergency and the conduct of persons
            taking refuge in them;

       (b) to regulate and control the use and maintenance of shelters
            when there is no state of emergency;

       (c) to provide for the inspection of shelters;

       (d) to prescribe the time and manner for making any
            application under this Act;

       (e) to prescribe the fees and charges which may be levied
            under this Act or the regulations;

        (f) to prescribe the forms for use in connection with this Act or
            the regulations;

       (g) to prescribe the offences that may be compounded under
            section 26; and

       (h) to prescribe any other matter which is required to be
            prescribed for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The Minister may, in making any regulations under
subsection (1), provide that any contravention or failure to comply
with any of the provisions of the regulations shall be an offence
punishable with a fine not exceeding $10,000 or with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 6 months or with both.
2020 Ed.  Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997  23

          THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 2(3)

   PUBLIC SHELTERS DEEMED TO BE PROVIDED UNDER THIS ACT
       The public shelters located at the concourse and platform levels of the

following MRT stations:
 1. Braddell MRT Station

2. Bugis MRT Station
3. City Hall MRT Station
4. Lavender MRT Station
5. Marina Bay MRT Station
6. Newton MRT Station

7. Raffles Place MRT Station
8. Somerset MRT Station
9. Tiong Bahru MRT Station

                                          31.12.2021
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           CIVIL DEFENCE SHELTER ACT 1997

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 12 of 1997 — Civil Defence Shelter Act 1997

Bill                     : 12/1997

First Reading            : 25 August 1997

Second and Third Readings : 7 October 1997

Commencement             : 1 May 1998 (except Parts IV and V)

2. 1998 Revised Edition — Civil Defence Shelter Act (Chapter 42A)

Operation                : 30 May 1998

3. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act
                           2004

   (Amendments made by section 140 read with item (2) of the Fifth Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                     : 6/2004

First Reading            : 6 February 2004

Second Reading           : 19 April 2004

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 2004

Third Reading            : 19 October 2004

Commencement             : 1 April 2005 (section 140 read with
                               item (2) in the Fifth Schedule)

4. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 18 of the Sixth Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2010

First Reading            : 26 April 2010

Second Reading           : 18 May 2010

Third Reading            : 19 May 2010

Commencement             : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                               item 18 of the Sixth Schedule)

                                                    31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
CIVIL DEFENCE SHELTER ACT 1997

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.          1998 Ed.
24—(2) and (3)
                           24—(2)
   (4)                        (3)

                                             31.12.2021
