THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              MEDICAL AND ELDERLY CARE

            ENDOWMENT SCHEMES ACT 2000

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                          2020 Ed.

   Medical and Elderly Care
Endowment Schemes Act 2000

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                               MEDIFUND SCHEME

                               Division 1 — Medifund

 3. Reconstitution of Medical Endowment Fund
 4. Capital moneys of Medifund
 5. Application of income of Medifund
 6. Advisory Council
 7. Functions of Council and directions by Minister

                 Division 2 — Grants to Medifund committees

 8. Approved institutions
 9. Conditions on payment of grants
10. Medifund Account
11. Withdrawal from Medifund Account
12. Dissolution, etc., of Medifund committee or approved institution
13. Accounts of Medifund Account

                       Division 3 — Medifund committees

14. Medifund committees
15. Applications by eligible patients
16. Application made on behalf of patient
17. Payments authorised by Medifund committee

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                   2

          PART 3

          ELDERCARE SCHEME

          Division 1 — Establishment of ElderCare Fund

Section   Establishment of ElderCare Fund
          Administration of ElderCare Fund
   18.    Capital moneys of ElderCare Fund
   19.    Application of income of ElderCare Fund
   20.
   21.

          Division 2 — Approved providers

22. Subvention only for approved providers
23. Application to be approved provider
24. Cessation of approval
25. Revocation and suspension of approval

          Division 3 — Subventions

26. Amount of subvention
27. Conditions of subventions
28. Payment of subvention
29. Consequences for non-compliance
30. Recovery of overpayments of subventions
31. Duties of approved providers
32. Monitoring powers

                                        PART 4

                    GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

33. Administrative expenses
34. Financial year of Medifund and ElderCare Fund
35. Accounts
36. Mode of payment out of Funds
37. Appointment, powers and duties of auditor
38. Failure to provide information to auditor
39. Presentation of annual report, financial statements and auditor’s

         report to Parliament

                                        PART 5
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

40. Obstructing authorised officers in execution of their duties
41. False or misleading information

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
         Medical and Elderly Care

3        Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

Section  Protection against personal liability
         Confidentiality of information
   42.   Service of documents
   43.   Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   44.   Regulations
   45.   Transitional and saving provisions
   46.   The Schedule — The Advisory Council
   47.

An Act to reconstitute the Medical Endowment Fund and to establish
  the ElderCare Fund for the purpose of endowment schemes
  providing financial assistance in connection with medical and
  healthcare in Singapore and for matters connected therewith.

                                                              [27 March 2000]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes
Act 2000.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “approved institution” means any hospital or other healthcare
         institution approved by the Minister under section 8;

      “approved provider” means an organisation providing
         step‑down care in respect of which an approval under
         section 23(5)(a) is in force;

      “approved services” means step-down care provided by an
         approved provider in respect of which an approval under
         section 23(5)(a) is in force;

      “authorised officer” means any officer authorised by the
         Minister in writing to exercise such power or perform such

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                4

          function or duty under this Act as the Minister may specify in
          writing;

“Council” means the Advisory Council established under
   section 6;

“ElderCare Fund” means the ElderCare Fund established under
   section 18(1);

“eligible patient” means a person who is eligible to make an
   application under section 15;

“Medifund” means the Medical Endowment Fund established
   under the repealed Medical Endowment Scheme Act
   (Cap. 173A, 1994 Revised Edition) and reconstituted under
   this Act;

“Medifund Account” means the account, mentioned in
   section 10, of a Medifund committee;

“Medifund committee” means any committee appointed under
   section 14;

“organisation” means a society, body or group of persons,
   whether corporate or unincorporated;

“personal care” means assistance of a personal nature given to
   help a person who, by reason of any sickness, disability or
   injury, is unable on his or her own to attend to his or her daily
   needs or carry out his or her daily routine;

“recurrent costs”, in relation to the provision of any step‑down
   care, means all costs incurred or to be incurred by the
   provider in relation to its ongoing operations in providing
   such care other than the following costs:

          (a) the cost of acquiring the land on which the premises
               (whether built or to be built) at which such care is or
               is to be provided;

          (b) such other costs that are capital in nature as the
               Minister may prescribe;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Medical and Elderly Care

5  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

   “step-down care” means —

   (a) accommodation, personal care and health care for
        any person suffering or recovering from any sickness,
        disability or injury;

   (b) personal care and health care during the day for any
        such person; or

   (c) such other forms of health care or care arrangements
       as the Minister may prescribe for any such person;

   “step-down care institution” means any premises used (whether
      or not exclusively) for the purpose of providing step‑down
      care;

   “subvention” means a subvention under Part 3 out of the income
      of the ElderCare Fund.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, step‑down care is not taken to
include any medical or health care provided in any maternity home or
premises used or intended to be used for the accommodation of
pregnant women or of women immediately after childbirth.

 (3) For the purposes of sections 3(2)(c) and 18(1)(c), the net income
from investments of capital moneys is the amount ascertained by
adding to, or deducting from, the income received from the
investments of capital moneys any profit derived or loss sustained
(as the case may be) from the realisation of those investments.

                                    PART 2

                           MEDIFUND SCHEME

                           Division 1 — Medifund

Reconstitution of Medical Endowment Fund

 3.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, the Medical Endowment Fund
or Medifund continues and is reconstituted in accordance with this
Act.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                6

(2) There must be paid into the Medifund —

(a) all capital moneys as are appropriated from time to time
     from the Consolidated Fund and authorised to be paid into
     the Medifund by this Act or any other written law;

(b) gifts or bequests given or made for the purposes of
     Medifund; and

          (c) the net income from investments of capital moneys in the
              Medifund.

 (3) The Minister is responsible for the administration of the
Medifund, and all moneys belonging to the Medifund may be
deposited in any bank and invested in any investment authorised
under the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

 (4) The Medifund must be regarded as a Government fund and as
comprising public moneys for the purposes of any written law.

Capital moneys of Medifund

 4.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, the Minister for Finance may,
from time to time, pay into the Medifund such sums of capital money
as the Minister may determine out of moneys to be provided by
Parliament.

 (2) Despite the terms of any gift or bequest, all gifts and bequests
given or made for the purposes of the Medifund must be paid into the
Medifund as capital moneys.

 (3) The capital moneys of the Medifund must not be used for any
purpose other than for investment.

 (4) Where at any time there is a permanent diminution of the capital
moneys of the Medifund, the Minister must, before paying out the
income of the Medifund, make good the diminution from that
income.

Application of income of Medifund

 5. The income of the Medifund may be paid out and applied for all
or any of the following purposes only:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Medical and Elderly Care

7  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

   (a) for the provision of grants to Medifund committees to be
        applied for the purpose of defraying in whole or in part the
        hospital charges, fees and other expenses incurred by
        patients of approved institutions who are unable to pay
        those charges, fees or other expenses and are approved by
        the relevant Medifund committee;

   (b) for other purposes authorised under this Act to be paid out
        from the Medifund or that may be prescribed.

Advisory Council

 6.—(1) For the purpose of advising the Minister as to the
application of the income of the Medifund, an Advisory Council is
established, comprising members appointed by the Minister.

 (2) The Minister must appoint one of the members as chairperson.

 (3) The Schedule has effect with respect to the Council.

Functions of Council and directions by Minister

 7.—(1) The Council may, from time to time, make
recommendations to the Minister on all matters relating to the
application of the income of the Medifund.

 (2) The Minister may, on the recommendations of the Council,
issue to any Medifund committee directives or guidelines on the
approval of applications from eligible patients and on the
administration of the Medifund Account of that committee.

             Division 2 — Grants to Medifund committees

Approved institutions

 8. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, approve or
revoke the approval of any hospital or other healthcare institution for
the purposes of this Part.

Conditions on payment of grants

 9.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, authorise the payment
of grants in such amount and to such Medifund committee as the
Minister may think fit.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                8

 (2) The Minister may, in authorising payment for any purpose
under section 5 to any Medifund committee or other person, impose
such terms and conditions as the Minister may think fit.

 (3) The Minister may require any Medifund committee or other
person who fails to comply with such terms or conditions to repay
into the Medifund any moneys paid under section 5.

Medifund Account

 10.—(1) Every Medifund committee which receives a grant under
section 5 must establish and maintain an account to be called a
Medifund Account with a bank in Singapore.

 (2) The Medifund committee must pay into the Medifund Account
all moneys received as a grant under section 5 and any interest
accruing on the moneys must be paid into and form part of the
moneys in the Medifund Account.

Withdrawal from Medifund Account

 11.—(1) No money may be withdrawn from any Medifund
Account unless the withdrawal is authorised in accordance with
section 17.

 (2) A Medifund committee must repay into the Medifund Account
any moneys withdrawn in contravention of subsection (1).

Dissolution, etc., of Medifund committee or approved
institution

 12.—(1) Despite any other written law to the contrary, all moneys
in the Medifund Account of any Medifund committee designated to
approve applications from eligible patients of any approved
institution —

       (a) are deemed not to form part of the property of the
            Medifund committee or approved institution if the
            committee is dissolved or the institution goes into
            voluntary or compulsory liquidation; and

       (b) are not available for payment of the debts of the Medifund
            committee or approved institution or liable to be paid or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
   Medical and Elderly Care

9  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

            taken under or pursuant to an enforcement order or process
            of any court.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) The moneys in the Medifund Account must, after deduction of
any payment to the approved institution which has been authorised
under section 17, be vested in and paid into the Medifund if the
Medifund committee is dissolved.

Accounts of Medifund Account

 13.—(1) Every Medifund committee must cause to be kept proper
accounts and records of all transactions and affairs relating to its
Medifund Account and must do all things necessary to ensure that all
payments are correctly made and properly authorised and that
adequate control is maintained over the moneys and receipts of its
Medifund Account.

 (2) Every Medifund committee must, as soon as practicable after
the close of the accounting period of its Medifund Account but not
later than 30 June of each year, cause to be prepared and submitted
financial statements in respect of that year to the auditor of the
Medifund Account.

 (3) The accounting period of a Medifund Account begins on 1 April
of each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                   Division 3 — Medifund committees

Medifund committees

 14.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, appoint one or
more Medifund committees, comprising persons appointed by the
Minister, to consider and approve applications from eligible patients
in approved institutions and to administer payments out of their
Medifund Accounts.

 (2) The order under subsection (1) must designate the approved
institutions and the classes of eligible patients in relation to which a
Medifund committee may approve applications under section 15 and
exercise any other powers or duties under this Part.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                10

 (3) A Medifund committee may sue or be sued in the name by
which it is described in an order under subsection (1).

Applications by eligible patients

 15.—(1) Every person who —

       (a) is a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) has received treatment or requires treatment from any
            approved institution;

       (c) is unable to pay the hospital charges, fees or other expenses
            incurred by the person; and

       (d) satisfies such other requirements as may be prescribed,

may apply to the Medifund committee designated to approve the
person’s application for a payment out of the Medifund Account of
the Medifund committee to defray in whole or in part the hospital
charges, fees and other expenses incurred by the person.

 (2) Every application under subsection (1) must be supported by
such evidence as may be prescribed and by any further evidence that
the Medifund committee may reasonably require.

Application made on behalf of patient

 16. If an eligible patient, by reason of incapacity by physical or
mental illness or any other cause, is unable to make an application
under section 15, any member of the patient’s immediate family or
the medical social worker in charge of the patient’s case may submit
the application on the patient’s behalf.

Payments authorised by Medifund committee

 17.—(1) Upon receipt of an application made under section 15, the
Medifund committee designated to approve applications from such
class of eligible patients of such approved institutions for the
purposes of this Part may, if it thinks fit and subject to the availability
of moneys in the Medifund Account —

       (a) approve the application of any eligible patient of any
            approved institution in that class; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

11  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

    (b) authorise in writing payments of such amount as it thinks
         fit out of the Medifund Account to the approved institution
         to defray in whole or in part the hospital charges, fees and
         other expenses incurred by that eligible patient.

 (2) The Medifund committee must, in considering any application
and authorising payment, comply with any regulations made under
this Act and any directive and guideline issued by the Minister under
section 7(2).

 (3) The Medifund committee may consider any other
circumstances which, in the opinion of the committee, is relevant
to the application.

 (4) Despite subsection (1), a Medifund committee may authorise
any person to approve the application by any eligible patient in
exceptional circumstances and when the payment does not exceed
such amount as may be specified in any directive or guideline issued
under section 7(2).

 (5) Nothing in this Act is to be construed to require a Medifund
committee or an authorised person referred to in subsection (4) to
approve the application of every patient who satisfies the
requirements under section 15.

                                    PART 3

                          ELDERCARE SCHEME

            Division 1 — Establishment of ElderCare Fund

Establishment of ElderCare Fund

 18.—(1) A fund called the ElderCare Fund is established, into
which must be paid —

       (a) all capital moneys as are appropriated from time to time
            from the Consolidated Fund and authorised to be paid into
            the ElderCare Fund by this Act or any other written law;

       (b) gifts or bequests given or made for the purpose of the
            ElderCare Fund; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                12

          (c) the net income from investments of capital moneys in the
              ElderCare Fund.

 (2) The ElderCare Fund must be regarded as a Government fund
and as comprising public moneys for the purposes of any other
written law.

Administration of ElderCare Fund

 19. The Minister is responsible for the administration of the
ElderCare Fund and all moneys belonging to that Fund may be
deposited in any bank and invested in any investment authorised
under the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

Capital moneys of ElderCare Fund

 20.—(1) As from 27 March 2000, a sum that the Minister for
Finance may determine out of moneys to be provided by Parliament
must be paid into the ElderCare Fund as capital moneys.

 (2) The Minister for Finance may, from time to time, after 27 March
2000 pay into the ElderCare Fund such sums of capital money as the
Minister may determine out of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

 (3) Despite the terms of any gift or bequest, all gifts and bequests
given or made for the purposes of the ElderCare Fund must be paid
into the Fund as capital moneys.

 (4) The capital moneys of the ElderCare Fund must not be used for
any purpose other than for investment.

 (5) Where at any time there is a permanent diminution of the capital
moneys of the ElderCare Fund, the Minister must, before paying out
the income of the ElderCare Fund, make good such diminution from
that income.

Application of income of ElderCare Fund

 21. The income of the ElderCare Fund may be paid out and
expended for all or any of the following purposes only:

       (a) for the provision of subventions to any approved providers
            of step-down care for the purpose of defraying in whole or
            in part the recurrent costs in providing step‑down care;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

13  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

    (b) for purposes authorised under this Act to be paid out from
         the Fund;

    (c) for any other purposes relating to step-down care that may
        be prescribed.

                    Division 2 — Approved providers

Subvention only for approved providers

 22. Payments of subvention cannot be made under this Part to any
person providing step‑down care unless the person is an approved
provider in respect of —

       (a) all types of step-down care provided or proposed to be
            provided by the person;

       (b) one or more specific types of step‑down care provided or
            proposed to be provided by the person;

       (c) all types of step-down care provided or proposed to be
            provided by the person at specific premises; or

       (d) one or more specific types of step‑down care provided or
            proposed to be provided by the person at specific premises.

Application to be approved provider

 23.—(1) Any organisation which is a provider of any step-down
care may make an application in the prescribed manner for approval
to be an approved provider in respect of —

       (a) all types of step-down care provided or proposed to be
            provided by the applicant;

       (b) one or more specific types of step‑down care provided or
            proposed to be provided by the applicant;

       (c) all types of step-down care provided or proposed to be
            provided by the applicant at specific premises; or

       (d) one or more specific types of step‑down care provided or
            proposed to be provided by the applicant at specific
            premises.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                14

 (2) Where an application is made under subsection (1), the Minister
may request the applicant —

(a) to permit an authorised officer to inspect the premises to
     which the application relates at any reasonable time; or

(b) to furnish specified particulars about the operations of the
     applicant at those premises or the step‑down care provided
     or proposed to be provided or both.

 (3) The Minister may defer consideration of the application until
the premises have been so inspected or the particulars have been
furnished, as the case requires.

 (4) In determining whether or not to approve any applicant as an
approved provider, whether in respect of all types of step‑down care
or specific types of step‑down care and whether in respect of the
provision of such step‑down care at specific premises, the Minister
must have regard to all matters the Minister considers relevant.

(5) The Minister may —

(a) approve, with or without conditions, the applicant to be an
     approved provider in respect of —

          (i) all types of step-down care provided or proposed to
              be provided by the applicant;

          (ii) one or more specific types of step‑down care
               provided or proposed to be provided by the
               applicant;

          (iii) all types of step-down care provided or proposed to
                be provided by the applicant at specific premises; or

          (iv) one or more specific types of step‑down care
               provided or proposed to be provided by the
               applicant at specific premises; or

(b) refuse to give the approval.

 (6) The approval of any person under this section as an approved
provider of step-down care is in force for such period as the Minister
may specify.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

15  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

 (7) Where the Minister approves any organisation providing
step‑down care to be an approved provider, the Minister must, by
notification in the Gazette, declare the organisation to be an approved
provider in respect of all types or specific types of step‑down care or
in respect of the provision of such step‑down care at specific
premises, as the case may be.

Cessation of approval

 24. An approval of an organisation providing step-down care as an
approved provider ceases to have effect if —

       (a) the approval is revoked under section 25; or

       (b) the period (if any) to which the approval is limited under
            section 23(6) expires.

Revocation and suspension of approval

 25.—(1) The Minister may revoke, or suspend for a period not
exceeding 6 months, any approval of an organisation providing
step‑down care as an approved provider if —

       (a) in the opinion of the Minister, the organisation has ceased
            to be suitable to be an approved provider;

       (b) the application for approval contained information that was
            false or misleading in a material particular;

       (c) [Deleted by Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

      (ca) where the organisation is the holder of a licence granted
            under the Healthcare Services Act 2020, the licence is
            revoked or suspended or otherwise ceases to be in force;

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2020 wef 03/01/2022]

      (cb) where approved services are provided —

               (i) at any permanent premises within the meaning given
                   by section 2(1) of the Healthcare Services
                   Act 2020 — the approval granted to the
                   organisation to provide those services at those
                   premises under that Act is cancelled or suspended
                   or otherwise ceases to be in force;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                16

          (ii) using any conveyance within the meaning given by
               section 2(1) of the Healthcare Services Act 2020 —
               the approval granted to the organisation to use the
               conveyance for the provision of those services under
               that Act is cancelled or suspended or otherwise
               ceases to be in force; or

      (iii) by any other service delivery mode within the
            meaning given by section 2(1) of the Healthcare
            Services Act 2020 — the approval granted to the
            organisation to provide those services by the service
            delivery mode under that Act is cancelled or
            suspended or otherwise ceases to be in force;

                                                                     [Act 11 of 2023 wef 26/06/2023]

(d) the organisation is convicted of an offence under
     section 31(3) or (5);

          (e) the organisation fails to comply with any terms or
              conditions of the approval; or

          (f) the organisation fails to comply with any conditions of any
              subvention paid in respect of any of its approved services,
              and the Minister is of the opinion that the organisation is
              again likely to so fail to comply.

 (2) Before revoking or suspending any approval under this section,
the Minister must notify the organisation concerned that revocation or
suspension (as the case may be) is being considered, and must —

(a) give the reasons for considering the revocation or
     suspension;

(b) invite the organisation to make written submissions to the
     Minister within 7 days after receiving the notice, or any
     further period that the Minister may allow; and

          (c) inform the organisation that if no such submission is made
              within that period, any revocation or suspension (as the
              case may be) will take effect on the day after the last day
              for making submissions.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

17  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

 (3) The Minister must notify the organisation concerned in writing
of the Minister’s decision within 7 days after the end of the period
allowed by subsection (2) for making submissions.

(4) A revocation or suspension of any approval takes effect —

    (a) if no submission was made under subsection (2) — on the
         day after the last day for making submissions; or

    (b) if such submission was made — 7 days after the day on
         which the notice under subsection (3) was given.

 (5) The Minister may revoke an approval (subject to such
conditions as the Minister may think fit) if the approved provider
requests the Minister in the prescribed manner to revoke the approval.

 (6) Where any suspension of approval made under this section is in
force, the organisation concerned is not for the purposes of this Part
regarded as an approved provider, but on expiry of the suspension, the
organisation immediately reverts to being an approved provider.

                         Division 3 — Subventions

Amount of subvention

 26.—(1) The Minister may grant a subvention to an approved
provider of such amount as the Minister may determine.

 (2) The Minister may determine different amounts of subvention
for different classes of patients of approved providers, different
classes of step‑down care or different classes of approved providers.

 (3) In determining the amount of subvention under subsection (1) to
be granted to an approved provider, the Minister must have regard to
all matters the Minister considers relevant, including but not limited
to —

       (a) the recurrent costs of approved providers in providing
            step‑down care of the same class; and

       (b) the number of relevant patients to whom step‑down care is
            provided by the approved provider during any period
            determined by the Minister.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                18

 (4) In this section, “relevant patient” means a person who, in the
opinion of the Minister, requires step‑down care and is assessed by
the Minister to be financially disadvantaged.

 (5) Any opinion or assessment of the Minister under subsection (4)
that a person requires step‑down care or is financially disadvantaged
is final and conclusive and must not be reviewed in any court of law.

Conditions of subventions

 27.—(1) A subvention may be paid to an approved provider on any
condition that the Minister may determine, including but not limited
to conditions for repayment of subventions and admission of persons
to any step‑down care institution under the control and management
of the approved provider.

 (2) The Minister may, at any time after giving reasonable notice to
an approved provider, vary or cancel any of the conditions imposed
under subsection (1) or impose new conditions in respect of any
subvention paid or payable to the approved provider.

Payment of subvention

 28.—(1) A subvention is payable to an approved provider quarterly
or at such other payment period as the Minister may allow.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a subvention may be paid
to an approved provider in advance in respect of any payment period
mentioned in subsection (1) at such times and on such terms as the
Minister may think fit.

Consequences for non-compliance

 29.—(1) The Minister may, by written notice, impose one or more
of the following sanctions on an approved provider that has not
complied, or is not complying, with section 31(1) or with any
condition of any subvention paid to the approved provider under
section 27:

       (a) revoke or suspend the approval of the organisation as an
            approved provider;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

19  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) restrict the approval as an approved provider in respect of a
         certain type or types of step‑down care or in respect of a
         type of step‑down care provided by the approved provider
         at specific premises;

    (c) reduce the total amount of subvention payable to the
        approved provider in any subsequent payment period;

    (d) require repayment of part or all of the subvention paid to
         the approved provider.

 (2) Before imposing any sanction mentioned in subsection (1) on an
approved provider, the Minister must notify the approved provider
that the imposition of sanction is being considered, and must —

    (a) give to the approved provider a notice of non‑compliance
         setting out the details of non‑compliance;

    (b) set out the sanctions that can be imposed in this section on
         the approved provider for non‑compliance;

    (c) invite the approved provider to make written submissions
        to the Minister within 7 days after receiving the notice, or
        such further period as the Minister may allow; and

    (d) inform the approved provider that if no such submission is
         made within that period, any sanction the Minister decides
         to impose will take effect on the day after the last day for
         making submissions.

 (3) The Minister must notify the approved provider in writing of the
Minister’s decision within 7 days after the end of the period allowed
by subsection (2) for making submissions.

(4) Any sanction imposed takes effect —

    (a) if no submission was made under subsection (2) — on the
         day after the last day for making submissions; or

    (b) if such submission was made — 7 days after the day on
         which the notice under subsection (3) was given.

(5) This section does not affect the operation of section 25.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                20

Recovery of overpayments of subventions

 30.—(1) If the Minister pays an amount to an approved provider by
way of subvention, any part of the amount that is an overpayment is
recoverable as a debt due to the Government and may be recovered by
the Government in a court of competent jurisdiction.

 (2) If the Minister pays an amount to an approved provider by way
of subvention and a condition to which the subvention is subject is not
met, the amount of subvention as the Minister determines under
section 29(1)(d) is recoverable as a debt due to the Government and
may be recovered by the Government in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

 (3) If an approved provider is liable to repay any amount under
subsection (1) or (2), the amount (or part of it) may be deducted from
one or more other subventions payable to the approved provider
under this Part.

Duties of approved providers

 31.—(1) Every approved provider must —

       (a) keep records (whether in written or electronic form) that
            enable —

               (i) claims for payments of subvention to be properly
                   verified; and

              (ii) proper assessments to be made whether the approved
                   provider has complied, or is complying, with the
                   conditions of any subvention paid to it and with its
                   duties under this Act;

       (b) in relation to each of those records, retain the record for a
            period ending 3 years (or such other period as an
            authorised officer may allow) after the close of the
            financial year in which the record was made; and

       (c) comply with any other duties that may be prescribed.

 (2) Every approved provider must, as soon as practicable after the
close of each financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

21  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

audited annual financial statements in respect of that year to the
Minister or an authorised officer designated by the Minister.

 (3) An approved provider who fails to comply with subsection (1)
or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (4) An approved provider must not, in purported compliance with
this section, make a record that is false or misleading in a material
particular.

 (5) An approved provider who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $3,000.

Monitoring powers

 32.—(1) An authorised officer may, to the extent reasonably
necessary for any of the purposes specified in subsection (2), do all
or any of the following:

       (a) enter during the day any step-down care institution under
            the control and management of an approved provider with
            the consent of the approved provider;

       (b) take photographs of the premises of the step-down care
            institution;

       (c) request the approved provider or any other person on the
            premises to answer any question, or to produce any
            document or record requested by the authorised officer;

       (d) inspect any document or record kept by the approved
            provider connected with the provision of step-down care,
            whether or not kept or maintained on those premises;

       (e) take extracts from, or make copies of, any such document
            or record;

        (f) in relation to any such document or record —

               (i) operate equipment on the premises where the
                   document or record is kept or maintained to see
                   whether the equipment, or a disk, tape or other
                   storage device that is on those premises and can be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                22

          used or associated with the equipment, contains
          information that is relevant, in respect of the
          approved provider, to making the assessments
          referred to in subsection (2); and

          (ii) if the authorised officer, after operating equipment at
               those premises finds that the equipment, or disk, tape
               or other storage device at the premises, contains
               information of that kind, to —

          (A) operate facilities on the premises to put the
               information in documentary form and copy the
               document or record so produced; or

          (B) if the information can be transferred to a disk,
               tape or other storage device that is brought to
               the premises by the authorised officer, operate
               the equipment or other facilities to copy the
               information to the storage device and remove
               the storage device from the premises.

 (2) An authorised officer may act as provided for under
subsection (1) for all or any of the following purposes:

(a) to assess whether records have been kept as required by
     this Part;

(b) to assess whether the provisions of this Act relating to, or
     the conditions of the subvention in respect of, the approved
     provider concerned have been complied with.

                                    PART 4

                GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Administrative expenses

 33.—(1) All expenses incurred in connection with the
administration of the Medifund and the ElderCare Fund, including
the costs of auditing the accounts of the Medifund and the ElderCare
Fund, must be defrayed out of the income of the Medifund and the
ElderCare Fund, respectively.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

23  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

 (2) The costs of auditing the accounts of any Medifund Account
must be defrayed out of the income of the Medifund.

Financial year of Medifund and ElderCare Fund

 34.—(1) The financial year of the Medifund begins on 1 April of
each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

 (2) The financial year of the ElderCare Fund begins on 1 April of
each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Accounts

 35.—(1) The Minister must cause to be kept proper accounts and
records of all transactions and affairs relating to the Medifund and the
ElderCare Fund and must do all things necessary to ensure that all
payments out of the Medifund and the ElderCare Fund are correctly
made and properly authorised and that adequate control is maintained
over the assets and receipts of the Medifund and the ElderCare Fund.

 (2) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of each
financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted financial
statements in respect of that year to the auditor of the Medifund
and the ElderCare Fund.

Mode of payment out of Funds

 36. A payment must not be made out of the Medifund or the
ElderCare Fund unless the payment is authorised by the Minister.

Appointment, powers and duties of auditor

 37.—(1) The accounts of the Medifund, the ElderCare Fund and
every Medifund Account must be audited by —

       (a) the Auditor-General; or

       (b) such other auditor as may be appointed annually by the
            Minister in consultation with the Auditor-General.

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1)(b) unless the person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                24

 (3) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at
all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other
records relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of
the Medifund, the ElderCare Fund and every Medifund Account and
may make copies of, or take extracts from, any of those accounting
and other records.

(4) The auditor must in the auditor’s report state —

(a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
     transactions and the state of affairs of the Medifund, the
     ElderCare Fund or the Medifund Account, as the case may
     be;

(b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
     kept, including records of all assets of the Medifund, the
     ElderCare Fund or the Medifund Account, as the case may
     be;

          (c) whether the receipts, expenditure and investment of
              moneys and the acquisition and disposal of assets on
              account of the Medifund, the ElderCare Fund or the
              Medifund Account (as the case may be) during the
              financial year were in accordance with the provisions of
              this Act; and

(d) any other matters arising from the audit that the auditor
     considers necessary.

(5) The auditor must —

(a) as soon as practicable after the accounts of the Medifund,
     the ElderCare Fund or Medifund Account (as the case may
     be) have been submitted for audit, send a report of the audit
     to the Minister; and

(b) submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
     as appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the Minister
     may require.

 (6) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of the Medifund,
the ElderCare Fund or any Medifund Account, a copy of the audited

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

25  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

financial statements and any report made by the auditor must be
forwarded to the Auditor‑General.

Failure to provide information to auditor

 38.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor may
require any other person to provide such information in that other
person’s possession or to which that other person has access as the
auditor considers necessary for the purposes of the auditor’s duties
under this Act.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requirement of the auditor under subsection (1) or who
otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance
of the duties or the exercise of the powers of the auditor shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

Presentation of annual report, financial statements and
auditor’s report to Parliament

 39. The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause an annual
report in respect of the administration of the Medifund, the ElderCare
Fund and every Medifund Account during the preceding financial
year to be prepared and must present a copy of the report and of the
audited financial statements and the auditor’s report to Parliament.

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Obstructing authorised officers in execution of their duties

 40.—(1) Any person who obstructs, hinders or impedes any
authorised officer in the performance or execution of the officer’s
duty or anything which the officer is authorised, empowered or
required to do under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to answer any
question, to provide any information or to produce any document or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                26

record to an authorised officer in contravention of section 32(1) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

False or misleading information

 41. Any person who knowingly or recklessly —

       (a) makes a statement that is false or misleading in a material
            particular in respect of any application for approval as an
            approved provider; or

       (b) gives to the Minister or any authorised officer exercising a
            power or performing a duty or function under this Act any
            information, or any document or record that contains
            information, that is false or misleading in a material
            particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Protection against personal liability

 42. No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any member
of any Medifund committee or any person acting under the directions
or authorisation of the Medifund committee for anything which is in
good faith done or intended to be done by him or her in the execution
or purported execution of this Act.

Confidentiality of information

 43.—(1) Except in the case of prosecution of an offence under this
Act, an authorised officer is not compellable in any proceedings to
give evidence in respect of, or to produce any document containing,
any information which has been obtained from any approved
provider or approved institution in the course of carrying out any
inspection, assessment or performing any duty or function under this
Act.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), an authorised officer must not disclose
any information which is contained in the medical records, or which
relates to the condition, treatment or diagnosis, of any person, as may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

27  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

have come to the officer’s knowledge in the course of carrying out
any inspection or assessment or performing any duty or function
under this Act unless the disclosure is made —

    (a) under or for the purpose of administering and enforcing
         this Act or the Infectious Diseases Act 1976;

    (b) for the purpose of any disciplinary proceedings under the
         Medical Registration Act 1997; or

    (c) for any other purpose with the consent of the person to
        whom the information relates or the representative of that
        person.

(3) In subsection (2)(c), “representative” means —

    (a) the executor, administrator or next‑of‑kin of a deceased
         person; or

    (b) in relation to a person who lacks capacity within the
         meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2008 —

    (i) a donee of a lasting power of attorney which is
        granted by that person under that Act, and under
        which that person confers on the donee authority to
        consent on that person’s behalf to such disclosure; or

    (ii) a deputy who is appointed or deemed to be appointed
         for that person by the court under that Act, and who
         is conferred power to consent on that person’s behalf
         to such disclosure.

                                                                                           [16/2016]

Service of documents

 44. Any notice, order or other document that is required by this Act
to be served or given to any approved provider, Medifund committee
or any other organisation may be served on or given to that approved
provider, committee or organisation by delivering or sending it by
registered post —

       (a) to the registered or principal office of the approved
            provider, committee or organisation; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                28

(b) if the approved provider, committee or organisation has no
     such office, to any place in Singapore where it carries on
     business or conducts its activities, as the case may be.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 45.—(1) Where any offence under this Act is committed by a body
corporate, a partnership or an unincorporated association of persons,
any person who, at the time of the commission of the offence, was a
director, manager, partner, secretary or other similar officer, or was
purporting to act in any such capacity, shall also be guilty of that
offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly unless the person proves that —

       (a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) the person had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
            commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
            exercised having regard to the nature of his or her functions
            in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

 (2) In relation to a body corporate whose affairs are managed by its
members, “director” means a member of the body corporate.

Regulations

 46. The Minister may make any regulations that are necessary or
expedient for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act
and, in particular, the regulations may —

       (a) prescribe the procedure for payments out of the Medifund
            Account and the criteria for approval of applications by
            eligible patients;

       (b) prescribe the procedure for the repayment of grants or
            subventions to the Medifund or ElderCare Fund, as the
            case may be;

       (c) prescribe the membership, terms of office and procedure of
            Medifund committees;

       (d) provide for the disposal of amounts which are unpaid or
            otherwise remain in any Medifund Account;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
    Medical and Elderly Care

29  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                2020 Ed.

    (e) prescribe the proceedings of the Council; and

    (f) prescribe anything which may be prescribed under this
        Act.

Transitional and saving provisions

 47.—(1) Any approval, decision, notice or other document
prepared, made, granted, issued, and any act or thing done or
given, under or pursuant to the repealed Medical Endowment Scheme
Act (Cap. 173A, 1994 Revised Edition) (called in this section the
repealed Act) and valid immediately before 27 March 2000 are
deemed to have been prepared, made, granted, issued, done or given
under or pursuant to the corresponding provision of this Act and
continue to have effect accordingly.

 (2) All directives or guidelines made by the Minister under
section 9 of the repealed Act are deemed to have been made under
section 7 of this Act.

 (3) Every Hospital Medifund committee appointed under
section 12 of the repealed Act is deemed to be appointed as a
Medifund committee by the Minister in accordance with section 14 of
this Act.

 (4) Every Hospital Medifund Account established under section 11
of the repealed Act is deemed to be a Medifund Account established
under section 10 of this Act.

 (5) A person who, immediately before 27 March 2000, is a member
of the Advisory Council under the repealed Act, continues as such
member as if the person had been appointed under section 6 of this
Act.

 (6) Any reference in any document to the repealed Act is construed
as a reference to this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
          Medical and Elderly Care

2020 Ed.  Endowment Schemes Act 2000                                30

          THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 6(3)

                              THE ADVISORY COUNCIL

 1.—(1) Subject to this paragraph, every Council member holds and vacates his
or her office in accordance with the terms of his or her appointment and, on
ceasing to be a member, is eligible for re‑appointment.

 (2) Any Council member may resign from office at any time by giving written
notice to the Minister.

 (3) The Minister may remove a Council member from office if the Minister is
satisfied that the member —

        (a) is guilty of neglect of duty or misconduct;

(b) has become bankrupt or made an arrangement with the member’s
     creditors;

        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or
        (d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member.
 2. The validity of any proceedings of the Council is not affected by any vacancy
among the members or by any defect in the appointment of any member.
 3. The quorum at any Council meeting is one-half of the number of members.

 4. The arrangements relating to Council meetings may be determined by the
Council.

 5. The chairperson presides at all Council meetings at which the chairperson is
present and in the chairperson’s absence the members present must elect one of
their number to act as chairperson of that meeting.

 6. All questions arising at any Council meeting must be decided by a majority of
votes of the members present and, in the case of an equality of votes, the
chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote.

 7. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may regulate its own
procedure in any manner it thinks fit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                   MEDICAL AND ELDERLY CARE
                 ENDOWMENT SCHEMES ACT 2000

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                   PART 1
            MEDICAL ENDOWMENT SCHEME ACT
           (CHAPTER 173A, 1994 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 4 of 1993 — Medical Endowment Scheme Act 1993

Bill           : 40/1992

First Reading  : 16 November 1992

Second and Third Readings : 18 January 1993

Commencement   : 1 April 1993

2. 1994 Revised Edition — Medical Endowment Scheme Act
                                    (Chapter 173A)

Operation      : 15 March 1994

                                  PART 2
                MEDICAL AND ELDERLY CARE
               ENDOWMENT SCHEMES ACT 2000

                     (2020 REVISED EDITION)

3. Act 13 of 2000 — Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes
                           Act 2000

Bill           : 7/2000

First Reading  : 17 January 2000

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      ii

Second Reading        : 22 February 2000

Notice of Amendments  : 22 February 2000

Third Reading         : 22 February 2000

Commencement          : 27 March 2000

4. 2001 Revised Edition — Medical and Elderly Care Endowment Schemes
                                   Act (Chapter 173A)

Operation             : 31 December 2001

5. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
   (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(29) of the
   Second Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2008

First Reading         : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement          : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                            item 1(29) of the Second Schedule)

6. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
   (Amendments made by section 20 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2016

First Reading         : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement          : 10 June 2016 (section 20)

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Medical and Elderly Care
                                    Endowment Schemes Act 2000

Operation             : 31 December 2021

8. Act 3 of 2020 — Healthcare Services Act 2020

Bill                  : 37/2019

First Reading         : 4 November 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 January 2020

Commencement          : 3 January 2022

9. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               iii

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

10. Act 11 of 2023 — Healthcare Services (Amendment) Act 2023

Bill           : 6/2023

First Reading  : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2023

Commencement   : 26 June 2023

11. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2025

First Reading  : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement   : 5 December 2025

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
        COMPARATIVE TABLE

 MEDICAL AND ELDERLY CARE
ENDOWMENT SCHEMES ACT 2000

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.          2001 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]
[Omitted as spent]         47—(6)
[Omitted as spent]            (7)
47—(6)                        (8)
                              (9)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
