THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          CONTROL OF ESSENTIAL SUPPLIES
                               ACT 1973

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                          2020 Ed.

         Control of Essential Supplies
                     Act 1973

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Appointment of officers
     2.  Responsibilities of officers
     3.  Declaration of controlled and rationed articles
     4.  Regulations
     5.
     6.

                                        PART 2

                          POWERS OF CONTROLLER

 7. Licences and permits to sell controlled articles
 8. Power of Controller to obtain information
 9. Power of Controller to enter premises
10. Power of arrest, seizure, investigation and prosecution
11. Powers of Controller to take possession of controlled articles and

         to give orders and directions
12. Power of Controller to sell animals or perishable, deleterious or

         hazardous articles
13. Delegation of powers

                                        PART 3

                         OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

14. Prohibition against selling greater quantity of controlled articles
         than required for ordinary use

15. Prohibition of concealment or destruction of controlled articles
16. Offence to sell controlled articles without licence or permit
17. Retailers to display licence and list of controlled articles and

         rationed articles

                                                      1

                                                                                          31.12.2021
         Control of Essential Supplies

2        Act 1973                                  2020 Ed.

Section  Supply of rationed articles
   18.   Illegal conditions
   19.   Removal of controlled articles from business premises and
   20.   storage of controlled articles in premises other than licensed
         business premises, and dealing in controlled articles otherwise
   21.   than in normal course of business
   22.   Unlawful possession of controlled articles
   23.   Penalties
         No proceedings against authorised person procuring evidence

                                           PART 4

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   24. Minister may appoint boards and committees
   25. Burden of proof
   26. Power of court to confiscate
   27. Jurisdiction of courts
   28. Joinder of offences
   29. Composition of offences
   30. Protection of informers

An Act to provide for the control and rationing of essential supplies.
                                                         [14 December 1973]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Control of Essential Supplies Act 1973.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “animal” includes birds, reptiles, fish and every kind of
         vertebrate animal and the young thereof, and the eggs of
         birds, reptiles and fish;
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                       3

“article” includes every kind or description of thing or
   commodity;

“controlled article” means any article or food, or any kind or
   type of article or food, which has been declared to be a
   controlled article by an order under section 5, and includes a
   rationed article;

“Controller” means the officer appointed to be Controller of
   Supplies under section 3 and includes a Deputy Controller of
   Supplies, an Assistant Controller of Supplies and any person
   to whom the Controller has delegated any of his or her
   powers, duties or functions in accordance with section 13, to
   the extent of that delegation;

“food” includes any animal, whether alive or dead, and any
   substance or commodity which is used as food by man, or
   which is used for feeding any animal which serves some
   purpose for the use of man, whether as food or otherwise, or
   which ordinarily enters into the composition or preparation of
   human food or of the food of any such animal;

“licensed premises” means any premises in respect of which a
   licence issued under section 7 is in force;

“offence under this Act” includes any contravention of or failure
   to comply with any order or regulation made under this Act
   and any contravention of or failure to comply with the terms
   and conditions of any licence or permit issued or authority
   granted under this Act or the regulations made thereunder and
   any failure to comply with any request or direction lawfully
   made or given thereunder;

“officer of customs” has the meaning given by the Customs
   Act 1960;

“rationed article” means any article or food, or any kind or type
   of article or food, which has been declared to be a rationed
   article by an order made under section 5;

“retail dealing” includes every sale of any article or food other
   than wholesale dealings;

                                         31.12.2021
   Control of Essential Supplies

4  Act 1973                             2020 Ed.

   “sell” includes barter or exchange;

   “senior officer of customs” has the meaning given by the
      Customs Act 1960;

   “supplies” includes every kind and type of article or food;

   “supplies officer” means any officer appointed under section 3;

   “wholesale dealing” means any sale of any article or food in
      whatever quantity for resale in the same form or state or as
      part of a manufactured product.

Appointment of officers

 3. The Minister may appoint by name or office a Controller of
Supplies, Deputy Controllers of Supplies, Assistant Controllers of
Supplies and any other officers that the Minister considers necessary
or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

Responsibilities of officers

 4.—(1) The Controller must, subject to the Minister’s general
direction and control, perform the duties and exercise the rights and
powers imposed and conferred upon him or her by this Act.

 (2) The Deputy Controllers of Supplies, Assistant Controllers of
Supplies and all other officers appointed under section 3 are under the
direction and control of the Controller.

 (3) All officers appointed under section 3 are deemed to be public
servants for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

Declaration of controlled and rationed articles

 5. The President may, by order in the Gazette, declare any article or
food to be a controlled article or to be a rationed article or both.

Regulations

 6.—(1) The Minister may make regulations generally for carrying
into effect the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting the powers conferred by subsection (1), any
regulations made under this section may provide for —
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                       5

(a) prohibiting, either absolutely or subject to prescribed
     conditions, the purchase or sale of any controlled article
     without the Controller’s written permission;

(b) prohibiting, regulating or controlling the import or export
     of any controlled article;

          (c) prohibiting, regulating or controlling the movement of any
              controlled article;

(d) limiting wholesale or retail dealing in any controlled article
     to persons that hold licences or permits therefor as the
     regulations may prescribe;

          (e) restricting the sale of any controlled article either by any
              individual or generally by all persons dealing in the article
              in any manner as the Minister may consider fit;

          (f) prohibiting, restricting or otherwise regulating or
              controlling the manufacture or production of any
              controlled article either generally or as regards form,
              shape, quantity, quality, constituents or otherwise;

(g) regulating and controlling the rationing of any rationed
     article and, without prejudice to such general power,
     providing for the registration of all or any persons, or any
     class or classes of persons, for the purposes of the rationing
     and for the issue of registration cards, ration cards and
     other ration documents;

(h) appointing enumerators to enumerate the public for the
     purposes of registration and rationing;

          (i) regulating the distribution or use of any controlled article;

          (j) requiring controlled articles to be kept only at places that
              the Controller may direct and prescribing the manner in
              which controlled articles are to be stored;

          (k) limiting the quantity of any controlled article which may be
              acquired or held by any person;

                                         31.12.2021
   Control of Essential Supplies

6  Act 1973                       2020 Ed.

   (l) providing for the keeping of books of accounts and other
       records relating to any trade or business in the course of
       which controlled articles are sold, and prescribing the
       manner in which the books or records must be disposed of
       or preserved;

   (m) prescribing the period and fees to be paid in respect of the
        issue or renewal of any licence to sell controlled articles;

   (n) providing for exemption from all or any of the provisions
        of this Act or any regulations made under this Act; and

   (o) prescribing any forms that the Minister may think
        necessary for use in connection with any of the matters
        mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (n).

 (3) All regulations made under this section must be published in the
Gazette and must be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication and if —

   (a) notice of a motion is given for a sitting day of Parliament
        not later than the first available sitting day after one month
        from the date the regulations are so presented; and

   (b) a resolution is passed pursuant to the motion to annul the
        regulations or any part of the regulations from a specified
        date,

the regulations or that part of the regulations (as the case may be)
become void from that date, but without affecting the validity of
anything previously done thereunder, or the making of new
regulations.

                                    PART 2

                      POWERS OF CONTROLLER

Licences and permits to sell controlled articles

 7.—(1) The Controller may, subject to this Act and to conditions as
he or she may think fit, by written licence or permit authorise any
person to sell by wholesale or retail any controlled article in any
premises or at a place or places specified in the licence.
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                       7

 (2) The Controller may issue or renew licences or permits to deal in
controlled articles.

 (3) Every licence or permit issued under this section is valid for the
period that may be expressed therein and may, subject to any order
made by any court under section 22(3), be renewed for a further
period that the Controller thinks fit.

 (4) Whenever, under this Act, any person is required to obtain a
written licence or permit, the person must, on demand, produce the
licence or permit to the Controller or to any officer of customs or to
any person acting under the Controller’s authority and authorised to
examine any person or supplies, or to any person designated by the
Controller to demand its production, and any person who fails to do
so shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

 (5) The Controller may at any time, without assigning any reason
for doing so, vary the conditions of or suspend or revoke or refuse to
renew any licence or permit which he or she has granted under this
Act.

 (6) Any person aggrieved by the Controller’s refusal to issue or
renew a licence under this section or by any action of the Controller
under subsection (5) may appeal against the refusal or action to the
Minister whose decision is final.

Power of Controller to obtain information

 8.—(1) The Controller or any person authorised in that behalf by
him or her in writing may by writing under his or her hand or by
notification in the Gazette require any person or class or description
of persons or all persons (“A”) —

       (a) to furnish the Controller or any authorised person that may
            be specified in the requisition with full and accurate
            periodical or other returns or information in respect of any
            supplies specified in the requisition, showing all or any of
            the following particulars:

               (i) the quantity of the supplies in the possession or under
                   the control of A;

                                         31.12.2021
   Control of Essential Supplies

8                        Act 1973  2020 Ed.

   (ii) the cost of the supplies or expense incurred in respect
        of the supplies;

   (iii) the price charged or received by A for the supplies;

   (iv) any other information which the Controller may
        consider necessary to request in respect of the
        supplies;

   (b) to produce for inspection all or any books or documents
        relating to any supplies in the possession or under the
        control of A;

   (c) to register the name and address of A, and any other
       particulars and in the manner that the Controller may
       specify;

   (d) to maintain records or to make returns containing any
        particulars relating to the acquisition, disposal, deposit,
        withdrawal, production, treatment, keeping, storage,
        movement, transport, distribution, use and consumption
        of any supplies that the Controller may specify.

 (2) Any person to whom a requisition has been made under
subsection (1) must comply with the requisition within the time that
may be specified in the requisition or, if no time is specified, without
unnecessary delay.

 (3) The Controller or any person authorised by him or her under
subsection (1) may impound and detain any book or document
produced in compliance with any requisition made under
subsection (1) if in his or her opinion it contains evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act.

   (4) Any person who —

   (a) contravenes subsection (2) or obstructs or impedes the
        Controller or any person authorised by the Controller in the
        lawful exercise of any of the Controller’s powers under this
        section; or
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                             9

(b) refuses to answer or knowingly gives a false answer to any
     question or refuses to produce any book or document
     required for obtaining any information to be furnished
     pursuant to this section,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Power of Controller to enter premises

 9.—(1) For the purposes of testing the accuracy of any record kept
or return made or information given to the Controller under section 8
or of obtaining information or in any case where the Controller or any
person authorised by him or her has reasonable grounds for believing
that an offence under this Act has been committed, the Controller, or
any person authorised in that behalf by the Controller in writing, after
producing to the occupier the written authority —

       (a) may enter any premises belonging to, or in the occupation
            of, any person keeping or making or who has failed to keep
            or to make, any record or return or has failed to give any
            information or in which the Controller or the authorised
            person has reason to believe that any supplies, with respect
            to which a requisition under section 8 has been made, are
            kept, stored, manufactured or produced or in which he or
            she has reasonable grounds for believing that an offence
            under this Act is being or has been committed; and

       (b) may carry out any inspections and examination (including
            the inspection and examination of books) that he or she
            may consider necessary and may seize and detain any
            books, documents or other things or supplies found in
            those premises which may furnish evidence of the
            commission of an offence under this Act.

 (2) Where, as a result of any inspection and examination made
under subsection (1), there is any discrepancy between the quantity or
quality of any supplies found and any record or return required to be
kept or made or any information given in respect of those supplies,
the person required to keep the record or to make the return or to give
the information shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

                                               31.12.2021
    Control of Essential Supplies

10  Act 1973                       2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person who obstructs or impedes the Controller or any
person authorised by him or her in the lawful exercise of any of his or
her powers under this section shall be guilty of an offence under this
Act.

Power of arrest, seizure, investigation and prosecution

 10.—(1) The Controller, or any supplies officer or officer of
customs authorised in that behalf by the Controller in writing, may —

       (a) arrest without warrant any person whom the Controller has
            reason to believe to have committed an offence under this
            Act, if the person refuses to furnish his or her name and
            address or furnishes an address outside Singapore or there
            are reasonable grounds for believing that he or she has
            furnished a false name or address or that he or she is likely
            to abscond; and when any person has been so arrested, he
            or she is to be dealt with as provided by the Criminal
            Procedure Code 2010; and

       (b) seize any supplies which the Controller considers it
            necessary to seize in relation to the evidence necessary
            to establish the commission of any such offence.

 (2) The Controller or any supplies officer authorised in that behalf
by the Controller in writing, and any police officer not below the rank
of sergeant, may in relation to any investigation in respect of any
offence under this Act, without the order of the Public Prosecutor,
exercise the special powers in relation to police investigations given
by the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in any arrestable case.

 (3) Any prosecution in respect of an offence under this Act may,
with the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by the
Controller or other supplies officer.

Powers of Controller to take possession of controlled articles
and to give orders and directions

 11.—(1) If the Controller has reason to believe that any person is
committing an offence under this Act, the Controller may —
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                       11

(a) take possession in such manner as he or she considers fit of
     any controlled article in respect of which he or she has
     reason to believe such an offence has been committed or of
     any vehicle, vessel or other article by means of which any
     such offence has been committed or which he or she has
     reason to believe is intended to be used for the commission
     of that offence; or

(b) give any orders and directions and take any measures in
     relation to supplies of that controlled article that may
     appear to him or her necessary or expedient in order that
     any such controlled article may be placed on the market.

 (2) Where, under this section, possession has been taken of any
controlled article, vehicle, vessel or other article by or on behalf of the
Controller, then the Controller —

(a) if in his or her opinion the owner of the controlled article
     has been guilty of an offence under this Act and criminal
     proceedings have been instituted against the owner in
     respect of the offence, may retain the controlled article
     until the conclusion of those criminal proceedings and,
     unless the court orders confiscation of the controlled
     article, must dispose of the controlled article in the manner
     that the court may order and, in default of any order of the
     court, must dispose of the controlled article under
     paragraph (b); or

(b) in any case, may restore possession to the owner, or, where
     a maximum price has been fixed by any written law in
     respect of the controlled article, may pay to the owner of
     the controlled article the price so fixed less an amount not
     exceeding 25% of the price being the expenses certified by
     the Controller to have been incurred by the Controller in
     taking possession, storing and restoring possession of that
     controlled article.

                                         31.12.2021
    Control of Essential Supplies

12  Act 1973                       2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with any order
or direction given by the Controller under subsection (1)(b) or who
obstructs or impedes the Controller or any person authorised by the
Controller to take possession of any controlled article under
subsection (1)(a) shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Power of Controller to sell animals or perishable, deleterious or
hazardous articles

 12.—(1) If the Controller takes possession of any controlled article
in circumstances in which —

       (a) the Controller has reason to believe that an offence under
            this Act has been committed; and

       (b) criminal proceedings have been instituted against any
            person in respect of the offence,

then if —

       (c) the controlled article is a live animal; or

       (d) the Controller is satisfied that the controlled article, by
            reason of its perishable nature or otherwise, is liable to
            deteriorate, or is injurious to health or is hazardous,

the Controller may order that the controlled article be sold in the
manner that may be specified by the Controller.

 (2) The proceeds of the sale mentioned in subsection (1) must be
kept until the conclusion of the criminal proceedings and, except
where the court orders confiscation of the proceeds under section 26,
must be disposed of in the manner that the court may order.

Delegation of powers

 13.—(1) The Controller may in writing delegate all or any of his or
her powers, duties or functions under this Act to any supplies officer,
and may at any time revoke any such delegation.

 (2) No delegation under subsection (1) is deemed to divest the
Controller of any of his or her powers, duties or functions and he or
she may exercise those powers, duties and functions despite any such
delegation.
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                                          13

          PART 3

          OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Prohibition against selling greater quantity of controlled
articles than required for ordinary use

 14. Any person who sells any controlled article to any other person
in excess of the quantity which may be lawfully acquired by such
other person in accordance with any regulations made under section 6
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Prohibition of concealment or destruction of controlled articles

 15. Any person who conceals or destroys any controlled article in
order to withhold the article from the market or refuses, without
reasonable cause, to supply any controlled article shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

Offence to sell controlled articles without licence or permit

 16.—(1) Any person, not being the holder of a valid licence or
permit issued in accordance with section 7, who sells by wholesale or
retail any controlled article —

       (a) on the person’s own behalf;

       (b) on behalf of any body corporate of which the person is a
            director or an officer; or

       (c) on behalf of any firm of which the person is a partner,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

 (2) Any person, being the holder of a valid licence or permit issued
in accordance with section 7, who sells by wholesale or retail any
controlled article —

       (a) in any premises or at a place other than the premises or
            place specified in the licence or permit; or

                                         31.12.2021
    Control of Essential Supplies

14  Act 1973                                   2020 Ed.

    (b) contrary to any conditions expressed in the licence or
         permit,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Retailers to display licence and list of controlled articles and
rationed articles

 17.—(1) Any person carrying on retail business in any premises or
at any place in respect of which a licence has been issued in
accordance with section 7 must display in a conspicuous position —

       (a) the original of the licence; and

       (b) a list in the English language and in any other language as
            the Controller may direct of the controlled articles or
            rationed articles sold in that premises or at that place,

so that they may be easily read by any person purchasing controlled
articles or rationed articles in that premises or at that place.

 (2) Any person who fails or refuses to comply with subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Supply of rationed articles

 18.—(1) Except under the authority of the Controller or under and
in accordance with this Act or of any direction, licence, permit or
coupon issued thereunder, a person must not obtain or attempt to
obtain, and a retailer must not supply or offer or attempt to supply,
any rationed article.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

Illegal conditions

 19. Any person who, in selling any controlled article, imposes,
except with the Controller’s permission, any condition of sale other
than a condition of sale —

       (a) requiring immediate payment for the controlled article;

       (b) prescribing the time within which payment must be made
            or delivery taken; or
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                             15

          (c) requiring a deposit in respect of sale of the controlled
              article,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

Removal of controlled articles from business premises and
storage of controlled articles in premises other than licensed
business premises, and dealing in controlled articles otherwise
than in normal course of business

 20.—(1) Any person who removes any controlled article or causes
or permits any controlled article to be removed from any licensed
premises or stores any controlled article or causes or permits any
controlled article to be stored in any premises, other than licensed
premises or premises approved by the Controller for such storage,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

 (2) The Controller, any senior officer of customs or any police
officer not below the rank of sergeant, if he or she suspects that any
controlled article is being stored or dealt with in any premises in
contravention of this section, may, despite any written law to the
contrary for the time being in force, without a search warrant enter
upon the premises for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not any
such controlled article is in those premises.

 (3) In any prosecution for an offence under this section, it is
sufficient for the prosecution to prove that any controlled article, to
the ownership or possession of which the defendant was entitled, was
found in premises other than licensed premises or premises approved
by the Controller, and the burden of proving that the defendant is not
guilty of an offence under this section then lies upon the defendant.

 (4) Any controlled article found in the course of a search under
subsection (2) upon premises other than licensed premises or
premises approved by the Controller, in regard to which an offence
under this section is reasonably suspected to have been committed,
may be removed by the Controller or other person authorised by that
subsection to carry out the search and, if not claimed within 2 weeks
of the removal, may be sold by order of the Controller, and the
proceeds of the sale must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                               31.12.2021
    Control of Essential Supplies

16  Act 1973                                2020 Ed.

Unlawful possession of controlled articles

 21. Any person in possession or control of any controlled article in
such circumstances as to raise a reasonable suspicion that an offence
under this Act has been or is intended to be committed by him or her
in relation to the controlled article shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act unless he or she satisfies the court that the offence has not
been and was not intended to be committed by him or her.

Penalties

 22.—(1) Any person, other than a body corporate, but including a
director or an officer of a body corporate, who commits an offence
under this Act shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) Any body corporate which commits an offence under this Act
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

 (3) Where any person is convicted of an offence under this Act, the
court by which the person is so convicted may, whether or not it
imposes any other penalty —

       (a) make an order —

               (i) cancelling any licence issued under section 7 to the
                   person, or to any firm of which the person is a
                   partner, or to any corporation of which the person is a
                   director or an officer; and

              (ii) debarring the person or the firm or corporation from
                   obtaining a new licence either absolutely or for a
                   period that the court may determine; or

       (b) suspend the licence for a period that the court may
            determine.

 (4) Where a person charged with an offence under this Act is a body
corporate —
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.  Act 1973                       17

(a) every person who, at the time of the commission of the
     offence, is a director or an officer of that body corporate
     may be charged jointly in the same proceedings with the
     body corporate; and

(b) where the body corporate is convicted of the offence
     charged — every such director or officer shall be deemed
     to be guilty of the offence unless he or she proves that the
     offence was committed without his or her knowledge or
     that he or she took reasonable precautions to prevent its
     commission.

 (5) Any person who would have been liable for an offence under
this Act to any penalty for anything done or omitted to be done if the
thing had been done or omitted to be done by him or her personally
shall be liable to the same penalty if the thing has been done or
omitted to be done by his or her partner, agent or employee, unless he
or she proves that he or she took reasonable precautions to prevent the
doing or omission of that thing.

No proceedings against authorised person procuring evidence

 23. No proceedings shall be instituted under this Act against any
person duly authorised in that behalf by the Controller who has
knowingly done or omitted to do any act which would, but for this
section, have been an offence, provided that he or she has done or
omitted to do the act with the intention of procuring evidence for the
purpose of prosecuting the seller for an offence under this Act.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Minister may appoint boards and committees

 24.—(1) The Minister may appoint any boards or committees as he
or she may think fit for the purpose of assisting him or her in carrying
into effect this Act and may delegate to them any of his or her powers
(other than those conferred by section 6) and may require them to
perform any of his or her duties as he or she may think necessary.

                                         31.12.2021
    Control of Essential Supplies

18  Act 1973                       2020 Ed.

 (2) No delegation under subsection (1) is to be deemed to divest the
Minister of any of his or her powers or duties and he or she may
exercise those powers and perform those duties despite any such
delegation.

Burden of proof

 25. In any prosecution in respect of an offence under this Act upon a
charge of doing any act which is unlawful, unless the person doing the
act is entitled to do so by reason of the person being the holder of a
licence, permit or written permission, consent, authorisation or
exemption entitling the person to do that act, it is sufficient for the
prosecution to allege and prove the person’s doing of that act and the
onus is then upon the accused to show that the accused was entitled to
do the act.

Power of court to confiscate

 26.—(1) Where any person is convicted of an offence under this
Act, the court may order the confiscation in whole or in part of —

       (a) any controlled article in respect of which the offence has
            been committed and which has been seized by, or has
            otherwise come into the possession of the Controller or any
            person acting under the Controller’s authority or any
            vehicle, vessel or other article, the property of the accused,
            by means of which the offence has been committed or
            which is intended to be used for the commission of an
            offence under this Act; or

       (b) the proceeds of the sale of any such controlled article if it
            has been sold under section 12.

 (2) Where confiscation is ordered under subsection (1), the court is
to deliver the controlled article or the proceeds of the sale of the
controlled article (if not already in the Controller’s possession) to the
Controller or to any person designated by him or her, and is to give
directions as to their disposal.
          Control of Essential Supplies

2020 Ed.                Act 1973         19

Jurisdiction of courts

 27. Despite anything in any other written law to the contrary, a
District Court and a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to pass any
sentence provided in this Act for any offence under this Act.

Joinder of offences

 28. Despite any written law to the contrary for the time being in
force, when a person is accused of more than one offence under this
Act, the person may be charged with and tried at one time for any
number of those offences.

Composition of offences

 29.—(1) The Controller may compound any offence under this Act
prescribed as being an offence which may be compounded by
collecting from the person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum of money not exceeding $2,000.

 (2) The Minister may make regulations to prescribe the offences
under this Act which may be compounded and the method and
procedure by which such offences may be compounded under this
section.

Protection of informers

 30.—(1) Subject to this section, no evidence as to any written or
oral information in respect of any offence alleged to have been
committed under this Act may be admitted in evidence in any civil or
criminal proceedings, and no witness may be obliged or permitted to
disclose the name or address of any informer or to state any matter
which might lead to the discovery of the informer’s identity.

 (2) If any books, documents or papers which are in evidence or
liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contains any
entry in which any informer is named or described or which might
lead to the discovery of his or her identity, the court is to cause all
such passages to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far as
may be necessary to prevent the discovery of the informer’s identity,
but no further.

                                         31.12.2021
    Control of Essential Supplies

20  Act 1973                       2020 Ed.

 (3) If in any civil or criminal proceedings the court, after full
enquiry into the case, is of the opinion that the informer has wilfully
made in any information furnished by him or her a material statement
which he or she knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be
true, or the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done
without the discovery of the informer’s identity, it is lawful for the
court to require the production of the original information, if in
writing, and to permit enquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, “informer” includes every
person who is not called as a witness for the prosecution in a criminal
case and who has made any complaint or report or furnished any
information, oral or documentary, in respect of any offence under this
Act alleged to have been committed by any person.
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                CONTROL OF ESSENTIAL SUPPLIES

                                   ACT 1973

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
               FOOD CONTROL PROCLAMATION

                     (PROCLAMATION NO. 10)
                     (B.M.A. G.N. NO. 12/1945)

1. Ordinance 16 of 1939 — Food Control Ordinance, 1939

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1101/1939

First Reading            : 24 April 1939

Second Reading           : 12 June 1939

Notice of Amendments     : 12 June 1939

Third Reading            : 12 June 1939

Commencement             : 30 June 1939

2. Ordinance 34 of 1939 — Food Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1939

Bill                     : G.N. No. 3193/1939

First, Second and Third  : 16 October 1939
Readings

Commencement             : 28 October 1939

3. Ordinance 1 of 1940 — Food Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1940

Bill                     : G.N. No. 562/1940

First, Second and Third  : 12 February 1940
Readings

Commencement             : 13 February 1940

                                                        31.12.2021
                         ii

4. British Military Administration G.N. No. 12/1945 — Food Control
                                                                         Proclamation
                                                                         (Proclamation
                                                                         No. 10)

Commencement             : 2 November 1945

                                  PART 2
                       FOOD CONTROL ACT
           (CHAPTER 246, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

5. Ordinance 41 of 1949 — Food Control Ordinance, 1949

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 203/1949

First Reading            : 17 May 1949

Second Reading           : 21 June 1949

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 140 of 1949

Third Reading            : 20 September 1949

Commencement             : 28 September 1949

6. Act 23 of 1951 — Food Control (Amendment) Ordinance, 1951

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 184/1951

First Reading            : 22 May 1951

Second and Third Readings : 19 May 1951

Commencement             : 27 June 1951

7. G.N. No. S 33/1956 — Singapore Colony Order in Council, 1955
                                 (Consequential Provisions) (Miscellaneous)
                                 Order, 1956

Commencement             : 4 February 1956

8. 1955 Revised Edition — Food Control Ordinance (Chapter 218)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

9. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                     : 158/1958

First Reading            : 16 July 1958

Second Reading           : 13 August 1958
                         iii

Notice of Amendments     : 10 September 1958

Third Reading            : 10 September 1958

Commencement             : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                               with the Schedule)

10. 1970 Revised Edition — Food Control Act (Chapter 246)

Operation                : 31 July 1971

11. Act 34 of 1973 — Statutes of the Republic of Singapore (Miscellaneous
                            Amendments) (No. 3) Act, 1973

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (k) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                     : 27/1973

First Reading            : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 1973

Commencement             : 6 April 1973 (section 2 read with
                               item (k) of the Schedule)

                                 PART 3
      CONTROL OF ESSENTIAL SUPPLIES ACT 1973

                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

12. Act 54 of 1973 — Control of Essential Supplies Act, 1973

Bill                     : 59/1973

First, Second and Third  : 30 November 1973
Readings

Commencement             : 14 December 1973

13. 1985 Revised Edition — Control of Essential Supplies Act (Chapter 55)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

14. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 26 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 11/2010

First Reading            : 26 April 2010

Second Reading           : 18 May 2010

Third Reading            : 19 May 2010
                                 iv

       Commencement              : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                                       item 26 of the Sixth Schedule)

15. 2013 Revised Edition — Control of Essential Supplies Act (Chapter 55)

       Operation                 : 31 December 2013

                              Abbreviations

C.P.              Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.          Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S        Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.              Legislative Assembly

L.N.              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                  Legislation)

M. Act            Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.             Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.      Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
         COMPARATIVE TABLE

CONTROL OF ESSENTIAL SUPPLIES
                  ACT 1973

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2013 Ed.
12—(1) and (2)             12
16—(1) and (2)             16

                                                       31.12.2021
