THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES
                               ACT 1987

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                              2020 Ed.

Intoxicating Substances
        Act 1987

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

    OFFENCES RELATING TO INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES

3. Offence of misuse of intoxicating substances
4. Offence of supply of intoxicating substances
5. General powers to call for information as to intoxicating

       substances

                                        PART 3

                      EVIDENCE AND ENFORCEMENT

 6. Protection of informers
 7. Powers of arrest
 7A. Bail and bond
 8. Powers of search and seizure
 9. Obstruction of search
10. Forfeiture
11. Disposal of things forfeited
12. Powers of investigation of officers of Bureau
13. Blood tests
14. Presumption of misuse of intoxicating substance
15. Certificate of analyst, etc.

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                         2

          PART 4

          TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION

Section   Supervision
   16.    Treatment and rehabilitation
   17.    Approved centres
   18.    Administration of approved centres
   19.    Review Committees for approved centres
   20.    Review, discharge and transfer of inmates
   21.    Power of Magistrate to inquire into complaints of misconduct or
   22.    breach of duty
          Inmates deemed to be in legal custody
   23.    Use of weapons
   24.    Employment of auxiliary police officers as escorts and guards
   25.    Escape from legal custody of approved centre
   26.

          PART 4A

          TAKING OF PHOTOGRAPHS, FINGER IMPRESSIONS,
                    PARTICULARS AND BODY SAMPLES

26A.      Interpretation of this Part
26B.      Taking of photographs, finger impressions, particulars and body
          samples from person convicted, subject to supervision or in
26C.      approved centres
26D.      Further provisions for taking of body samples
          Retention of photographs, finger impressions, particulars and
          body samples taken

                                        PART 5

                           COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY

27. Committee of inquiry
28. Composition of committee of inquiry
29. Powers of committee of inquiry
30. Disobedience to summons
31. Refusal to give evidence
32. Giving of false evidence
33. Evidence and procedure
34. Admissibility of evidence
35. Proceedings not open to public
36. Persons who may be affected by findings

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
         Intoxicating Substances

3        Act 1987                                                   2020 Ed.

Section  Record of proceedings
   37.   Offence to influence or attempt to influence committee of
   38.   inquiry

                                           PART 6

                                         GENERAL

   39. General penalty
   40. Indemnity
   41. Protection of persons acting under authority of Act
   42. Offences by body corporate
   43. Regulations

            The Schedule

An Act to prohibit the misuse of certain substances which may cause
  intoxication when inhaled and for purposes connected therewith.

                                                           [1 November 1987]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Intoxicating Substances Act 1987.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “approved centre” means any place or premises declared by the
         Minister to be an approved centre under section 18;
      “article liable to seizure” means anything by means of or in
         respect of which an offence under this Act has been
         committed or which contains evidence of an offence under
         this Act;
      “Commissioner of Prisons” means the Commissioner of Prisons
         appointed under section 20 of the Prisons Act 1933;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 4

“Director” means the Director of the Central Narcotics Bureau
   appointed under section 3(1) of the Misuse of Drugs
   Act 1973 and includes any Deputy Director of the Bureau;

“Health Sciences Authority” means the Health Sciences
   Authority established under the Health Sciences Authority
   Act 2001;

“inmate” means a person who is detained in an approved centre;

“intoxicating substance” means any substance having the
   property of releasing toxic vapours or fumes which contain
   any chemical compound specified in the Schedule and which
   when inhaled induces or causes a state of intoxication;

“officer of the Bureau” means the Director or any person
   appointed under section 3 of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 as
   a Deputy Director, an Assistant Director or an officer of the
   Central Narcotics Bureau;

“police officer” has the meaning given by the Police Force
   Act 2004 and, in relation to a person who is subject to
   military law under the Singapore Armed Forces Act 1972,
   includes a military policeman as defined in section 2(1) of
   that Act;

“prison officer” has the meaning given by the Prisons Act 1933;

“Review Committee”, in relation to any approved centre, means
   the Review Committee appointed for the approved centre
   under section 20;

“special police officer” means a member of the Special
   Constabulary constituted under Part 8 of the Police Force
   Act 2004;

“supervision order” means a written order by the Director made
   under section 16;

“supervision period” means the period for which a person is
   placed under supervision pursuant to a supervision order
   made under section 16;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Intoxicating Substances

5  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

   “supply” includes having possession for the purpose of supply.

                            [3/2006; 1/2014]

                                    PART 2

  OFFENCES RELATING TO INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES

Offence of misuse of intoxicating substances

 3.—(1) A person must not, for the purpose of inducing or causing in
himself or herself a state of intoxication, use or inhale any
intoxicating substance.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Offence of supply of intoxicating substances

 4.—(1) A person must not sell or supply or offer to sell or supply an
intoxicating substance to any person if the person knows or has
reasonable cause to believe that the intoxicating substance is, or its
fumes are, likely to be used or inhaled in contravention of section 3(1)
by the person to whom the substance is sold or supplied or by another
person.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

General powers to call for information as to intoxicating
substances

 5.—(1) The Director may require any person who, in the course of
conducting a business, sells or supplies or offers to sell or supply any
intoxicating substance to produce such documents, to answer such
questions and to provide such information as the Director may
consider necessary for the effective exercise of the Director’s powers
and performance of the Director’s duties under this Act.

 (2) Any such requisition must be made in writing served on the
person to whom it is addressed, and any such service is good service
if the requisition —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.                        Act 1987                           6

(a) is left with that person, or is left with any adult at the usual
     or last known place of residence or business of that person;
     or

(b) is served on that person by post at that person’s usual or last
     known place of residence or business.

 (3) Every person required to produce any document, answer any
question or provide any information must produce the document,
answer the question or provide the information within the time that
may be stated in the requisition.

 (4) Any person required to produce any document, answer any
question or provide any information under this section who —

(a) without lawful excuse fails to comply with any requisition
     under this section;

(b) produces any document which is false in any material
     particular, or has not been given or made by the person by
     whom it purports to have been given or made, or has been
     in any way altered or tampered with; or

          (c) makes any declaration, statement or representation which
              is false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    PART 3

                  EVIDENCE AND ENFORCEMENT

Protection of informers

 6.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3) —

       (a) no information for an offence under this Act is to be
            admitted in evidence in any civil or criminal proceedings;
            and

       (b) no witness in any civil or criminal proceedings is
            obliged —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
             Intoxicating Substances

7            Act 1987                                       2020 Ed.

             (i) to disclose the name and address of any informer
                 who has given information with respect to an offence
                 under this Act; or

             (ii) to answer any question if the answer would lead, or
                  would tend to lead, to the discovery of the name or
                  address of the informer.

 (2) If any book, document or paper which is in evidence or liable to
inspection in any civil or criminal proceedings contain any entry in
which any informer is named or described or which may lead to his or
her discovery, the court must cause those entries to be concealed from
view or to be obliterated so far as may be necessary to protect the
informer from discovery.

   (3) If —

   (a) in any proceedings before a court for an offence under this
        Act, the court, after full inquiry into the case, is satisfied
        that an informer wilfully made a material statement which
        he or she knew or believed to be false or did not believe to
        be true; or

   (b) in any other proceedings, the court is of the opinion that
        justice cannot be fully done between the parties to the
        proceedings without the disclosure of the name of an
        informer,

the court may permit inquiry and require full disclosure concerning
the informer.

Powers of arrest

 7.—(1) Any officer of the Bureau, police officer or special police
officer may arrest without warrant any person who has committed or
whom the officer reasonably suspects to have committed an offence
under this Act.

 (2) Any person arrested under subsection (1), together with any
article liable to seizure, must be taken to the Central Narcotics Bureau
or a police station and may be searched.

 (3) A woman must not be searched under this Part except by another
woman and with strict regard to decency.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 8

 (4) An officer making an arrest under this section may seize and
detain any article liable to seizure.

Bail and bond

 7A.—(1) A person who has been arrested by an officer of the
Bureau, police officer or special police officer under section 7(1) may
be released on bail or on personal bond granted by any officer of the
Bureau.

 (2) Division 5 (Bails and bonds) of Part 6 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 applies to the release of a person on bail or on personal
bond under this section or section 92 or 93 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 (as the case may be) with the following modifications:

       (a) any reference to “officer”, “police officer” or “police
            officer of or above the rank of sergeant” is to be read to
            include an officer of the Bureau;

       (b) the reference to the Commissioner of Police in
            section 92(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 is to
            be read to include the Director.

                                                                                [Act 16 of 2024 wef 18/11/2024]

Powers of search and seizure

 8.—(1) Any officer of the Bureau, police officer or special police
officer may at any time —

       (a) without a warrant enter and search any place or premises in
            which he or she reasonably suspects that there is to be
            found any article liable to seizure;

       (b) search any person found in that place or premises; and

       (c) seize and detain any article liable to seizure found in that
            place or premises.

 (2) For the purpose of exercising his or her power under this
section, an officer may, with such assistance as he or she considers
necessary, break open any door, window, lock, fastener, floor, wall,
ceiling, compartment, box, container or any other thing.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
   Intoxicating Substances

9                               Act 1987                    2020 Ed.

Obstruction of search

   9. Any person who —

   (a) obstructs any officer of the Bureau, police officer or special
        police officer in the exercise of any power under this Act;
        or

   (b) fails to comply with any lawful requirement of any officer
        of the Bureau, police officer or special police officer in the
        execution of his or her duty under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence.

Forfeiture

 10.—(1) Where anything is seized under this Act, the officer who
carried out the seizure must immediately give notice in writing of the
seizure to the owner of that thing, if known, either by delivering the
notice personally to the owner or by post at his or her place of
residence, if known.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) is not required to be given where
the seizure is made in the presence of the offender or the owner or the
owner’s agent.

 (3) An order for the forfeiture of any article liable to seizure is to be
made if it is proved to the satisfaction of a court that an offence under
this Act has been committed and that such article was the subject
matter of or was used in the commission of the offence even though
no person may have been convicted of that offence.

 (4) If there is no prosecution with regard to any article seized under
this Act, that article is deemed to be forfeited on the expiry of one
month from the date of seizure thereof unless a claim thereto has been
made before that date in such manner as may be prescribed.

Disposal of things forfeited

 11. All things which are forfeited to the Government under this Act
are to be disposed of in such manner as the Minister thinks fit.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 10

Powers of investigation of officers of Bureau

 12.—(1) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under
this Act, an officer of the Bureau has all the powers of a police officer
under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in relation to an
investigation into a seizable offence.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), when an officer of the
Bureau is exercising the powers of a police officer under the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, the officer of the Bureau is deemed to be an
officer not below the rank of inspector of police.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Blood tests

 13.—(1) Any officer of the Bureau, police officer, special police
officer, or the officer-in-charge of an approved centre may require
any person who has used or inhaled, or is reasonably suspected to
have used or inhaled, any intoxicating substance for the purpose of
inducing or causing a state of intoxication to provide to a registered
medical practitioner a specimen of his or her blood for a laboratory
test.

 (2) A person is not required to provide a specimen of his or her
blood for a laboratory test under subsection (1) if the registered
medical practitioner in immediate charge of his or her case objects to
the provision of the specimen on the ground that it would be
prejudicial to the proper care or treatment of that person.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to provide a
specimen of his or her blood for a laboratory test pursuant to a
requirement imposed under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months.

 (4) Any officer of the Bureau, police officer or special police
officer, or the officer-in-charge of an approved centre must, on
requiring any person under this section to provide a specimen of
blood for a laboratory test, warn him or her that failure to provide a
specimen of blood may make him or her liable to a fine or
imprisonment, and, if such officer fails to do so, the court before

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

11  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

which the person is charged with an offence under subsection (3) may
dismiss the charge.

 (5) For the purposes of any proceedings for an offence under
section 3, a certificate purporting to be signed by a registered medical
practitioner that the registered medical practitioner took a specimen
of blood from a person with that person’s consent is evidence of the
matters so certified and of the qualifications of the registered medical
practitioner.

 (6) The certificate referred to in subsection (5) must not be accepted
as evidence for the prosecution unless a copy of the certificate had
been served on the accused not less than 7 days before the hearing.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the consent of a person who has
attained 16 years of age to providing a specimen of blood pursuant to
a requirement imposed under subsection (1) is as effective as it would
be if he or she were of full age.

 (8) Where the person referred to in subsection (7) has, by virtue of
that subsection, given an effective consent, it is not necessary to
obtain any consent from his or her parent or guardian in respect of
him or her providing the specimen of blood.

Presumption of misuse of intoxicating substance

 14.—(1) A person is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have
used or inhaled any intoxicating substance for the purpose of
inducing or causing in himself or herself a state of intoxication if the
specimen of blood provided by him or her under section 13 is
certified by —

       (a) an analyst employed by the Health Sciences Authority; or

       (b) any other person that the Minister may appoint,

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

to contain an amount of any chemical compound specified in the first
column of the Schedule in excess of the amount specified in the
second column of the Schedule in relation to that chemical
compound.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 12

 (2) An appointment under subsection (1)(b) must be published in
the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

Certificate of analyst, etc.

 15.—(1) A certificate purporting —

       (a) to be signed by —

               (i) an analyst employed by the Health Sciences
                   Authority; or

              (ii) such other person as the Minister may appoint; and

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

       (b) to relate to any chemical compound specified in
            the Schedule,

is to be admitted in evidence, in any proceedings for an offence under
this Act, on its production by the prosecution without proof of
signature and, until the contrary is proved, is to be proof of all matters
contained in the certificate.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (1A) An appointment under subsection (1)(a)(ii) must be published
in the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) The certificate under subsection (1) must not be accepted as
evidence for the prosecution unless a copy of the certificate had been
served on the accused not less than 7 days before the hearing.

                                    PART 4

                TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION

Supervision

 16.—(1) If as a result of a blood test under section 13, it appears to
the Director that the person who supplied the specimen of blood for
the blood test has used or inhaled any intoxicating substance in
contravention of section 3 and that it is necessary for that person to be
subject to supervision, the Director may make a supervision order
requiring that person to be subject to the supervision of an officer of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

13  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

the Bureau or a person appointed by the Director for that purpose for a
supervision period not exceeding 12 months.

(2) The Director may make a supervision order requiring —

    (a) a person who has been convicted of an offence under
         section 3(2); or

    (b) a person who has been discharged from an approved centre
         under section 21,

to be subject to supervision by an officer of the Bureau or a person
appointed by the Director for that purpose for a supervision period not
exceeding 12 months.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (3) Where the person mentioned in subsection (2)(a) is sentenced to
a term of imprisonment, the supervision order commences upon the
expiration of that sentence.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (4) A supervision order made under subsection (1) or (2) may
require the person subject to the supervision order to comply during
the whole or any part of the supervision period with any requirements
as to residence and any other requirements that the Director, having
regard to the circumstances of the case, considers necessary for
securing the good conduct of that person.

 (5) Any person who wilfully fails to comply with any requirement
in the supervision order mentioned in subsection (4) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1,000.

Treatment and rehabilitation

 17.—(1) If at any time during or after the supervision period a
person who is or has been subject to a supervision order is arrested
under section 7 on the ground that the person is reasonably suspected
to have committed an offence under section 3, the Director may,
having regard to the result of a medical examination or observation or
a blood test under section 13 and, where applicable, a report of the
supervising officer in relation to the person concerned, if it appears to
the Director that it is necessary for that person to undergo treatment
and rehabilitation at an approved centre, by order in writing direct the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 14

person to be admitted to an approved centre and detained there for a
period not exceeding 6 months.

(2) An approved centre may admit any person —

(a) who uses or inhales any intoxicating substance for the
     purpose of inducing or causing a state of intoxication; or

(b) under 21 years of age who uses or inhales any intoxicating
     substance for the purpose of inducing or causing a state of
     intoxication on the application made by either parent of
     such person or by his or her guardian or by any person for
     the time being having the custody or control of such
     person,

for voluntary treatment and rehabilitation on the terms and conditions
that may be prescribed.

 (3) Every person who is admitted to an approved centre under
subsection (2) must not be detained in that centre for a period
exceeding 6 months.

 (4) Any statement made by a person admitted to an approved centre
under subsection (2) for the purpose of undergoing treatment and
rehabilitation is not admissible in evidence against him or her in
respect of any subsequent prosecution for an offence under this Act.

 (5) If the Review Committee of an approved centre is of the opinion
that an inmate of that centre whose period of detention in that centre is
about to expire requires further treatment or rehabilitation or both, the
Committee may by order in writing direct that the inmate be detained
in the centre for a further period or periods not exceeding 3 months at
any one time.

 (6) No person in respect of whom an order has been made under
subsection (1) is to be detained in an approved centre or centres for a
period of more than 12 months after his or her admission to any
approved centre pursuant to such order.

 (7) In this section, “supervising officer” means an officer of the
Bureau or a person appointed by the Director under section 16 who is
charged with the responsibility for the supervision of the person
brought before the Director under subsection (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                  Intoxicating Substances

15                Act 1987                                   2020 Ed.

Approved centres

 18. The Minister may, from time to time, by notification in the
Gazette, declare any place or premises to be an approved centre for
the purpose of the treatment and rehabilitation of persons who use or
inhale intoxicating substances for the purpose of inducing or causing
a state of intoxication and may at any time in like manner revoke or
amend any such notification.

Administration of approved centres

 19.—(1) Subject to the Minister’s directions, the general charge
and administration of —

       (a) approved centres, except those designated under
            paragraph (b), is under the Commissioner of Prisons; and

       (b) such approved centres as the Minister may designate is
            under such person as the Minister may appoint.

                                                                                                             [1/2014]

 (2) The Commissioner of Prisons or the person appointed under
subsection (1)(b) (as the case may be) may appoint a person to be the
officer-in-charge of an approved centre and such person is
responsible for the supervision and administration of that approved
centre.

                                                                                                             [1/2014]

 (3) Subject to such modifications as may be made by the
Commissioner of Prisons, the standing orders issued under the
Prisons Act 1933 apply to an approved centre under the charge of the
Commissioner of Prisons as they apply to a prison.

                                                                                                             [1/2014]

 (4) The person appointed under subsection (1)(b) may in writing
issue orders, to be called standing orders, for the approved centres
designated under his or her charge.

Review Committees for approved centres

 20.—(1) The Minister must appoint for any approved centre or
centres a Review Committee which has such functions as are
conferred upon it by this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 16

 (2) Every Review Committee consists of a Chairperson, who must
be a person registered under the Medical Registration Act 1997, and
5 other members.

 (3) The Chairperson and members of a Review Committee are
appointed by the Minister for a term not exceeding 3 years, but
may —

(a) from time to time be re‑appointed;

(b) at any time be removed from office by the Minister; or

          (c) at any time resign from their office in writing addressed to
              the Minister.

 (4) Three members of the Review Committee constitute a quorum
at any meeting of the Committee.

 (5) The Chairperson presides at every meeting of the Review
Committee at which he or she is present and in his or her absence the
members present must elect one of their number to preside at the
meeting.

 (6) Every question before the Review Committee is to be
determined by a majority of the votes of the members present and
voting thereon, and in the event of an equality of votes the
Chairperson or the member presiding at the meeting has a casting
vote in addition to his or her original vote.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Review Committee
may determine its own procedure.

 (8) Any order of the Review Committee may be signed by the
Chairperson or a member of the Committee.

Review, discharge and transfer of inmates

 21.—(1) The Review Committee of an approved centre must keep
the case of every inmate under review and must, as often as
practicable, consider whether he or she should be discharged.

 (2) Despite any order made under section 17, the Director or the
Review Committee of an approved centre may at any time by order in
writing —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

17  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) discharge any inmate; or

    (b) transfer any inmate from one approved centre to another
         approved centre.

 (3) The officer-in-charge of an approved centre may enter into an
arrangement with the officer-in-charge of another approved centre for
the transfer of any inmate to that other approved centre and may,
subject to any direction given by the Director or the Review
Committee, carry out any transfer in accordance with that
arrangement, except that the whole period of detention for which
the inmate was admitted to such approved centre must not be
increased by the transfer.

 (4) On proof to his or her satisfaction that the presence at any place
of an inmate is required in the interests of justice, or for the purpose of
any inquiry, or in the public interest or in the interest of the inmate,
the officer-in-charge of the relevant approved centre may order that
the inmate be taken to that place.

Power of Magistrate to inquire into complaints of misconduct
or breach of duty

 22.—(1) Where a complaint is made on oath to a Magistrate that
any person is improperly detained in an approved centre by reason of
any misconduct or breach of duty on the part of any officer in the
discharge of his or her functions pursuant to this Act, the Magistrate
may —

       (a) inquire into the complaint himself or herself; or

       (b) direct a police officer to make an inquiry for the purpose of
            ascertaining the truth or falsehood of the complaint and
            report to the Magistrate the result of the inquiry.

 (2) Every inquiry under subsection (1) is to be conducted in private,
except that the procedure for conducting any inquiry is to be such as
the Magistrate considers appropriate in the circumstances of the case.

 (3) A Magistrate or a police officer conducting any inquiry under
subsection (1) has all the powers conferred on him or her by the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010 in relation to the attendance and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 18

examination of witnesses, the taking of evidence and the production
of documents.

 (4) If, after considering the result of any such inquiry, the
Magistrate is satisfied that any person who is detained in an
approved centre ought not to be so detained, the Magistrate may
make an order for the discharge of that person from the approved
centre and that person must be discharged accordingly.

 (5) Any order or decision of the Magistrate made under this section
is final.

 (6) No evidence taken for the purpose of any such inquiry is
admissible in any civil or criminal proceedings, except where the
person who gave that evidence is charged with giving or fabricating
false evidence.

Inmates deemed to be in legal custody

 23.—(1) Every inmate is deemed to be in the legal custody of the
approved centre in which he or she is for the time being detained.

 (2) An inmate is deemed to be in legal custody —

       (a) while he or she is confined in, or is being taken to or from,
            an approved centre;

       (b) while he or she is for any other reason outside an approved
            centre in the custody or under the control of the officer-in-
            charge of the approved centre; or

       (c) while he or she is being taken to any place to which he or
            she is required or authorised by or under this Act to be
            taken, or is kept in custody pursuant to any such
            requirement or authorisation.

Use of weapons

 24.—(1) Subject to this section, a prison officer may use any
weapon against —

       (a) any inmate of any approved centre escaping or attempting
            to escape;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

19  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) any person who does any act or attempts to do any act to
         facilitate the escape of an inmate of any approved centre;
         or

    (c) any person engaged in any attempt to damage or force or
        break open —

    (i) the outside door or gate or enclosure wall of any
        approved centre or any other part of an approved
        centre; or

    (ii) any part of any vehicle in which an inmate is
         conveyed.

(2) A prison officer may use any weapon against —

    (a) any inmate of any approved centre engaged in any
         combined outbreak; and

    (b) any person engaged in any attempt to damage or force or
         break open —

    (i) the outside door or gate or enclosure wall of any
        approved centre or any other part of an approved
        centre; or

    (ii) any part of any vehicle in which an inmate is
         conveyed,

and may continue to use the weapon so long as the combined
outbreak or attempt is actually being prosecuted.

 (3) Every prison officer may use weapons against an inmate of any
approved centre using violence against any prison officer or other
person, if the prison officer has reasonable ground to believe that the
prison officer or other person is in danger of life or limb, or that other
grievous hurt is likely to be caused to either of them.

 (4) A prison officer must not resort to the use of any weapon under
subsection (1) unless the officer has reasonable ground to believe that
he or she cannot otherwise prevent the escape of any inmate.

 (5) Before using any firearm against an inmate or other person
referred to in subsection (1), the prison officer must give a warning to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 20

the inmate or that other person (as the case may be) that the prison
officer is about to fire on him or her.

 (6) A prison officer must not, in the presence of his or her superior
officer, use any firearm against an inmate or other person in the
circumstances described in subsection (1) or (2) except under the
orders of his or her superior officer.

 (7) The use of weapons under this section must be, as far as
possible, to disable and not to kill.

 (8) Every police officer who is for the time being serving in the
capacity of an escort, or of a guard in or around any approved centre,
for the purpose of ensuring the safe custody of any inmate, is deemed
to have all the powers and privileges granted to a prison officer under
this section.

Employment of auxiliary police officers as escorts and guards

 25.—(1) For the purpose of assisting him or her in the discharge of
his or her duties under this Act, the Commissioner of Prisons may
employ such number of auxiliary police officers as he or she
considers fit as escorts or guards to ensure the safe custody of the
inmates who are under his or her custody.

                                                                                                             [1/2014]

 (2) An inmate who is delivered into the custody of an auxiliary
police officer under this section is deemed to be in legal custody
within the meaning of section 23.

 (3) Every auxiliary police officer who is employed as an escort or a
guard under subsection (1) has, in the course of carrying out his or her
duties as an escort or a guard, have the same powers as a prison
officer under section 24.

 (4) Every auxiliary police officer employed under subsection (1) is
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

 (5) In this section, “auxiliary police officer” means a member of an
auxiliary police force established under any other written law.

                                                                                                             [3/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

21                              Act 1987                     2020 Ed.

Escape from legal custody of approved centre

26.—(1) Any inmate who —

    (a) while undergoing treatment and rehabilitation in an
         approved centre escapes from the legal custody of the
         approved centre;

    (b) while the inmate is outside an approved centre escapes
         from the legal custody or control of an officer-in-charge of
         an approved centre; or

    (c) while the inmate is otherwise in the legal custody of any
        other person escapes from the legal custody of that person,

shall be guilty of an offence.

(2) Any person who —

    (a) knowingly assists, directly or indirectly, any inmate of an
         approved centre to escape from the approved centre;

    (b) induces any such inmate so to escape; or

    (c) knowing that any inmate has escaped from an approved
        centre, harbours or conceals, or assists in harbouring or
        concealing that inmate or causes or induces that inmate not
        to return to the approved centre,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                   PART 4A
     TAKING OF PHOTOGRAPHS, FINGER IMPRESSIONS,

               PARTICULARS AND BODY SAMPLES
Interpretation of this Part

 26A.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “appropriate consent” means —
              (a) for a person 16 years of age or older, the written
                   consent of that person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.              Act 1987                                     22

          (b) for a person 14 years of age or older but below
               16 years of age, the written consent of both that
               person and of his or her parent or guardian; and

          (c) for a person below 14 years of age, the written
              consent of his or her parent or guardian,

          given to —

          (d) a police officer or an officer of the Bureau in charge
               of the case; or

          (e) a prison officer,

          after that officer has informed the person concerned, his or
          her parent or guardian or both (as the case may be) of the
          purpose for which a body sample is required from such
          person and the manner by which such body sample is to be
          taken from him or her;

“authorised analyst” means a person appointed by the
   Commissioner of Police to be an analyst for the purposes
   of this Part;

“body sample” means —

          (a) a sample of blood;

          (b) a sample of head hair, including the roots thereof;

          (c) a swab taken from a person’s mouth; or

          (d) such other sample as may be prescribed under
               subsection (2);

“DNA” means deoxyribonucleic acid;

“DNA information” means genetic information derived from the
   forensic DNA analysis of a body sample;

“finger impression” includes thumb impression and palmar
   impression;

[Deleted by Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

23  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    “invasive sample” means any body sample that is obtained by
       means of any invasive procedure, but does not include any
       sample described in subsection (3);

                                                                           [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    “particulars”, in relation to a person, means any particulars,
       information or description of that person that may be relevant
       or useful in the identification of that person;

    “photograph”, in relation to a person, includes the photograph of
       any distinguishing feature or mark on the body of that person;

    “registered medical practitioner” has the meaning given by the
       Medical Registration Act 1997 and includes a dentist
       registered under the Dental Registration Act 1999.

                                                                                                 [3/2006; 22/2007]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the Minister may prescribe additional
types of body samples that may be taken under section 26B.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (3) The additional types of body samples that may be prescribed
under subsection (2) must not include samples to be obtained from —

    (a) the genital or anal area of a person’s body;

    (b) a person’s body orifice other than the mouth; or

    (c) the breast of a woman.

                                                             [3/2006]

Taking of photographs, finger impressions, particulars and
body samples from person convicted, subject to supervision or
in approved centres

 26B.—(1) Any police officer, prison officer, officer of the Bureau
or person authorised by the Commissioner of Police may exercise all
or any of the following powers in respect of any person mentioned in
subsection (2):

       (a) take or cause to be taken photographs and finger
            impressions of such person;

       (b) make or cause to be made a record of the particulars of
            such person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 24

          (c) cause body samples of such person to be taken by a person
              authorised under section 26C(1);

       (d) send any photograph, finger impression, record of
            particulars or body sample so taken or made to the
            Commissioner of Police for identification and report.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (2) The powers mentioned in subsection (1) may be exercised in
respect of a person who on or after 1 March 2006 —

(a) is convicted of or is serving a sentence of imprisonment for
     an offence under section 3(2), 4(2) or 13(3);

(b) is subject to supervision pursuant to a supervision order
     made at any time (whether before, on or after that date)
     under section 16(1) or (2); or

      (c) is in an approved centre pursuant to an order made at any
           time (whether before, on or after that date) under
           section 17(1).

                                                                                                           [3/2006]

(3) Every person mentioned in subsection (2) must —

(a) submit to the taking of his or her photographs and finger
     impressions under subsection (1);

(b) provide such particulars as may be required under
     subsection (1); and

       (c) subject to subsection (5), submit to the taking of his or her
            body samples by a person authorised under section 26C(1).

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (4) Where any person mentioned in subsection (2), without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with subsection (3) —

(a) that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
     on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to
     both; and

(b) any police officer, prison officer, officer of the Bureau or
     person authorised by the Commissioner of Police may use
     such force as is reasonably necessary to take or cause to be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

25  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

           taken the photographs, finger impressions and body
           samples of that person.

                                                                                                           [3/2006]

(5) No —

    (a) sample of blood; or

    (b) invasive sample prescribed under section 26A(2),

is to be taken from any person unless the appropriate consent is given
for the taking of the sample.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

                                                                               [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

Further provisions for taking of body samples

 26C.—(1) For the purposes of section 26B(1)(c), a body sample
may only be taken by —

       (a) a registered medical practitioner;

       (b) a police officer, a prison officer or an officer of the Bureau
            who has received training for the purpose; or

       (c) any other suitably qualified or trained person who is duly
            appointed in writing by the Commissioner of Police as an
            authorised person for the purpose.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (2) Before taking any body sample, the person authorised under
subsection (1) to take the sample must satisfy himself or herself that
the taking of the sample does not endanger the person from whom the
sample is to be taken.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (3) The fact that a body sample has been taken must be recorded by
the person who took the sample in such form or manner as may be
required by the Commissioner of Police.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (4) Every body sample taken must be sent to an authorised analyst
for forensic DNA analysis.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 26

Retention of photographs, finger impressions, particulars and
body samples taken

 26D.—(1) The Commissioner of Police must cause to be
maintained —

(a) a register (whether in a computerised form or otherwise) in
     which is stored all photographs, finger impressions and
     particulars of a person taken under section 26B; and

       (b) a DNA database (whether in a computerised form or
            otherwise) in which is stored all DNA information derived
            from a body sample taken from a person under
            section 26B.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

 (2) Any information stored in the register and the DNA database
under subsection (1) may be used for all or any of the following
purposes:

(a) for comparison with any other information or any other
     DNA information (as the case may be) obtained in the
     course of an investigation of an offence conducted by a
     police officer or an officer of the Bureau;

(b) for comparison with information in the register of
     criminals or identification database maintained under
     section 4 or 29 of the Registration of Criminals
     Act 1949 or with DNA information in the DNA database
     maintained under section 31 of that Act, as the case may
     be;

                                                                    [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

(c) for comparison with information or DNA information (as
     the case may be) in the register or DNA database,
     respectively, established under —

          (i) section 27C of the Criminal Law (Temporary
              Provisions) Act 1955; or

          (ii) section 40D of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973;

(d) for any proceedings for any offence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

27  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (e) for administering the register and DNA database for the
        purposes of this Act;

    (ea) for any investigation into a death conducted by a police
          officer, a Coroner or a forensic pathologist (including a
          post‑mortem examination) or any inquiry into any death
          held by a Coroner, under the Coroners Act 2010;

                                                                          [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    (eb) for identifying a dead person or any part of a person;

                                                                          [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    (ec) for identifying a person in order to provide police
          assistance to the person;

                                                                          [Act 26 of 2022 wef 12/06/2023]

    (f) for such other purposes as may be prescribed.

                                                             [3/2006]

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(d) —

    (a) any photograph, finger impression or particulars stored in
         the register under subsection (1)(a);

    (b) any DNA information stored in the DNA database under
         subsection (1)(b); and

    (c) any certificate or report purporting to have been compiled
        or made from information stored in the register or DNA
        database maintained under subsection (1),

is, if produced from proper custody and authenticated by the
signature of the Commissioner of Police or a police officer
authorised by the Commissioner of Police, admissible in evidence
in any proceedings without proof of signature and, until the contrary
is proved, is proof of all matters contained therein.

                                                                                                             [3/2006]

                                    PART 5
                       COMMITTEE OF INQUIRY
Committee of inquiry
 27.—(1) Where it is expedient that the Minister, or such other
person as the Minister may appoint to exercise the powers conferred

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 28

upon the Minister by sections 28, 35 and 37, should be informed on
any matter connected with the discipline, administration or functions
of any approved centre or affecting any inmate, the Minister or the
person appointed by the Minister may convene a committee of
inquiry.

 (2) A committee of inquiry must inquire into and report on the facts
relating to any matter referred to it and, if directed by the Minister to
do so, express its opinion on any question arising out of any such
matter.

 (3) In this section and in sections 28, 35 and 37, “Minister” includes
the person appointed by the Minister under subsection (1) to act on
his or her behalf for the purposes of this section and sections 28, 35
and 37.

Composition of committee of inquiry

 28.—(1) A committee of inquiry consists of one or more persons
who are to be appointed by the Minister.

 (2) Where a committee of inquiry consists of more than one person,
the Minister must appoint one of the members to be the chairperson.

 (3) Where a committee of inquiry consists of one member only, he
or she is vested with the powers of a chairperson.

 (4) Every member of a committee of inquiry appointed under this
section is deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the
Penal Code 1871.

Powers of committee of inquiry

 29. A committee of inquiry may —

       (a) summon any person to give evidence on oath or on
            affirmation or to produce any document or material
            necessary for the purpose of the inquiry; and

       (b) visit any place in order to inquire into any matter which
            may arise in the course of the inquiry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

29                       Act 1987                            2020 Ed.

Disobedience to summons

 30.—(1) A person who is summoned to give evidence before a
committee of inquiry must not, without lawful excuse, fail to appear
in obedience to the summons.

 (2) A person who is required by a committee of inquiry to produce
any document or material for the purpose of the inquiry must not,
without lawful excuse, fail to produce the document or material.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Refusal to give evidence

 31.—(1) A person who appears before a committee of inquiry must
not, without lawful excuse, refuse to be sworn or to make an
affirmation, or to produce any document or material, or to answer any
question, which he or she is lawfully required to produce or answer.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

Giving of false evidence

 32. Every person who wilfully gives false evidence when examined
on oath or on affirmation before a committee of inquiry shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years or to
both.

Evidence and procedure

 33. Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a committee of
inquiry is not bound by the rules of evidence and may act in such
manner as the committee of inquiry thinks most expedient.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.                   Act 1987                                30

Admissibility of evidence

 34. No statement made in the course of any inquiry and no report of
a committee of inquiry is admissible as evidence in proceedings other
than proceedings, whether criminal or disciplinary, for an offence of
giving or fabricating false evidence under any written law.

Proceedings not open to public

 35.—(1) A committee of inquiry must not sit in public.

 (2) No person is allowed to attend the proceedings of a committee
of inquiry, or address the committee of inquiry, except with the
chairperson’s permission or if the Minister so directs.

Persons who may be affected by findings

 36.—(1) Where it appears to a committee of inquiry that any
witness or person involved in the supervision or administration of an
approved centre may be adversely affected by its findings, the
committee must notify him or her and give him or her an opportunity
to be present at the proceedings of the committee of inquiry or at such
part thereof as the chairperson may specify.

 (2) The person notified under subsection (1) must be allowed to
give evidence and examine any witness.

Record of proceedings

 37.—(1) The chairperson must record or cause to be recorded in
writing the proceedings of the committee of inquiry.

 (2) The evidence of each witness before a committee of inquiry
must be read over to him or her and must be signed by him or her.

 (3) A record of the proceedings of a committee of inquiry must be
signed by the chairperson and the members of the committee (if any)
and forwarded to the Minister.

 (4) The record of proceedings of a committee of inquiry or any part
thereof or any information relating thereto must be kept confidential
and must not be released to any person, other than a member of the
committee, without the Minister’s written permission.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
    Intoxicating Substances

31  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Offence to influence or attempt to influence committee of
inquiry

 38. Every person who, otherwise than in the course of duty, directly
or indirectly by himself or herself or by any other person in any
manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence any decision
of a committee of inquiry or any member of a committee of inquiry
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                    PART 6

                                  GENERAL

General penalty

 39. Any person who is guilty of an offence under this Act for which
no penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Indemnity

 40.—(1) The Government shall not be liable to make good any
damage caused to any goods or property as a result of an entry, search
or detention under the provisions of this Act unless the damage is
caused by the wilful neglect or default of an officer employed by the
Government.

 (2) In the event of any dispute as to the amount of any damage so
caused, the amount is to be summarily ascertained and determined by
a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court.

Protection of persons acting under authority of Act

 41. Any person who does any act in pursuance or intended
pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act shall not be subject
to any civil or criminal liability in respect thereof, whether on the
ground of want of jurisdiction, mistake of law or fact, or any other
ground, unless he or she has acted in bad faith or without reasonable
care.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          Intoxicating Substances

2020 Ed.                    Act 1987                               32

Offences by body corporate

 42. Where any offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of any
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body
corporate, or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he or
she as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against accordingly.

Regulations

 43.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for any purpose for
which regulations may be made under this Act and for prescribing
anything which may be prescribed under this Act and generally for
the purpose of carrying this Act into effect.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations with respect to any of the following matters:

       (a) providing for the treatment and rehabilitation of persons
            who use or inhale intoxicating substances for the purpose
            of inducing or causing in themselves a state of intoxication;

       (b) providing for the supervision and aftercare of persons who
            have undergone treatment and rehabilitation at any
            approved centre or who have been convicted of an
            offence under section 3;

       (c) providing for the management, maintenance and
            inspection of approved centres;

       (d) prescribing the functions and procedure of Review
            Committees;

       (e) providing for the control, discipline and occupation of
            inmates, including the imposition of corporal punishment;

        (f) prescribing the appointment and duties of officers of
            approved centres;

       (g) prescribing the punishment by a fine not exceeding $2,000
            or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or both

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                         Intoxicating Substances

33                          Act 1987                         2020 Ed.

    to be imposed on conviction for a breach of any
    regulations.

                         THE SCHEDULE

                                                  Sections 2, 14(1) and 15(1)

           First column  .            Second column
Toluene
                            1 microgramme per 1 millilitre of blood.

                                                  [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES
                             ACT 1987

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 24 of 1987 — Intoxicating Substances Act 1987

Bill           : 17/1987

First Reading  : 28 July 1987

Second and Third Readings : 31 August 1987

Commencement   : 1 November 1987

2. 1988 Revised Edition — Intoxicating Substances Act (Chapter 146A)

Operation      : 30 April 1988

3. Act 20 of 1998 — Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 1998
   (Amendments made by section 24 of the above Act)

Bill           : 17/1998

First Reading  : 20 April 1998

Second and Third Readings : 1 June 1998

Commencement   : 20 July 1998 (section 24)

4. Act 8 of 2000 — Prisons (Amendment) Act 2000
   (Amendments made by section 25 of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/2000

First Reading  : 17 January 2000

Second and Third Readings : 21 February 2000

Commencement   : 17 April 2000 (section 25)

5. Act 4 of 2001 — Health Sciences Authority Act 2001
   (Amendments made by section 42 read with item (6) of the Second Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill           : 3/2001

First Reading  : 12 January 2001

Second and Third Readings : 22 February 2001

Commencement   : 1 April 2001 (section 42 read with
                     item (6) of the Second Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                ii

6. 2001 Revised Edition — Intoxicating Substances Act (Chapter 146A)

Operation       : 31 July 2001

7. Act 3 of 2005 — CISCO (Dissolution) Act 2005
   (Amendments made by section 16 read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill            : 52/2004

First Reading   : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement    : 10 June 2005 (section 16 read with
                      item (4) of the Schedule)

8. Act 3 of 2006 — Intoxicating Substances (Amendment) Act 2006

Bill            : 41/2005

First Reading   : 21 November 2005

Second and Third Readings : 16 January 2006

Commencement    : 1 March 2006

9. Act 22 of 2007 — Dentists (Amendment) Act 2007
   (Amendments made by section 39 read with item (5) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill            : 9/2007

First Reading   : 27 February 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 April 2007

Commencement    : 1 January 2008 (section 39 read with
                      item (5) of the Schedule)

10. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 55 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 55 of the Sixth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                      iii

11. Act 1 of 2014 — Prisons (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 22 read with item 4 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2013

First Reading         : 11 November 2013

Second Reading        : 20 January 2014

Notice of Amendments  : 21 January 2014

Third Reading         : 21 January 2014

Commencement          : 1 July 2014 (section 22 read with
                            item 4 of the Schedule)

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Intoxicating Substances
                                     Act 1987

Operation             : 31 December 2021

13. Act 26 of 2022 — Registration of Criminals (Amendment) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 19/2022

First Reading         : 1 August 2022

Second and Third Readings : 12 September 2022

Commencement          : 12 June 2023

14. Act 16 of 2024 — Law Enforcement and Other Matters Act 2024

Bill                  : 14/2024

First Reading         : 7 March 2024

Second and Third Readings : 2 April 2024

Commencement          : 18 November 2024

15. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                  : 47/2024

First Reading         : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement          : 9 March 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
.                                 iv
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
             COMPARATIVE TABLE

         INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES
                       ACT 1987

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.            2016 Ed.

16––(3)            16––(2A)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
