THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
        STATES OF MALAYA CUSTOMS DUTIES
                    COLLECTION ACT 1958

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                              2020 Ed.

States of Malaya Customs Duties
        Collection Act 1958

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

            APPOINTMENTS AND POWERS OF OFFICERS

3. Appointment of Collector and Federal Superintendents of
       Customs and Excise

4. Powers of Collector and Federal Superintendents
5. Appointment of Federal Customs Officers
6. Officers to be public servants
7. Authority cards to be produced

                                        PART 3

             ESTABLISHMENT OF COLLECTION STATIONS

 8. Establishment of collection stations
 9. Valuation of goods
10. Return of customs duty or other charges overpaid
11. Payment of customs duty, etc., short paid or erroneously

         refunded
12. Abatement of customs duty
13. Calculation of customs duty

                                        PART 4
               DECLARATION OF GOODS AND PAYMENT

                               OF CUSTOMS DUTY
14. Declaration of goods imported and payment of duty

                                                      1

                                                              31.12.2021
   States of Malaya Customs Duties

2  Collection Act 1958                                                 2020 Ed.

Section
   15. Declaration of goods exported and payment of duty
   16. Control of agents

                                           PART 5

                    DUTIABLE GOODS IMPORTED BY POST

   17. Examination of postal articles
   18. Assessment of customs duty
   19. Forfeiture of postal articles containing undeclared dutiable

            goods
   20. Application

                                           PART 6

                          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

   21. Documents in support of declaration to be produced
   22. Taking of samples
   23. Weighing and handling charges
   24. Powers while in transit in relation to baggage
   25. Protection of government of Malaysia and Federal officers of

            customs from liability
   26. Lien over goods deposited

                                           PART 7

                                SEARCH AND SEIZURE

   27. Power to open packages and examine goods and to stop and
            search conveyances

   28. Seizure of goods the subject of an offence
   29. Search of passengers

                                           PART 8

              PROVISIONS AS TO TRIALS AND PROCEEDINGS

   30. Who may prosecute
   31. Jurisdiction of District Courts
   32. Notification in the Malaysia Gazette to be sufficient evidence
   33. Burden of proof
   34. Proportional examination of goods seized
   35. Certificate of analyst may be accepted
   36. Imprisonment for non-payment of fine
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958                                       3

Section   Manner of seizure not to be enquired into
   37.    Protection of informers
   38.    Goods liable to seizure liable to forfeiture
   39.    Court to order disposal of goods seized
   40.    Disposal of goods seized in respect of which there is no
   41.    prosecution
          Proceedings under other laws
   42.    Compounding of offences
   43.    No costs or damages in respect of seizure unless without
   44.    reasonable or probable cause

                                        PART 9

                         OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

45. Incorrect declaration and documents
46. Penalty for various offences
47. Assaulting or obstructing Federal officers of customs and

         rescuing seized goods
48. Offering or receiving bribes
49. Offences for which no other provision is made
50. Attempt and abetment
51. Offences by bodies of persons and by employees or agents

                                       PART 10

                                      GENERAL

52. Rewards
53. Powers of officers under certain Singapore Acts
54. Persons legally bound to give information
55. Packing of dutiable goods
56. Power to make regulations

An Act to enable the government of Malaysia to collect Federal
  customs duties within Singapore.

                                                           [11 February 1959]

                                                                    31.12.2021
             States of Malaya Customs Duties

4            Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the States of Malaya Customs Duties Collection
Act 1958.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “aircraft” includes any kind of craft which may be used for the
         conveyance of passengers or goods by air;

      “collection station” means a station or other place established by
         the President under section 8;

      “Collector” means any officer appointed by the President to be
         the Collector of Federal Customs Duties under section 3(1);

      “customs duty” means any import duty, export duty, surtax or
         cess imposed by or under the Customs Act 1967
         (M. 235 (1980)) of Malaysia or any other written law in
         force in Malaysia and includes any royalty payable in lieu of
         an export duty under any written law or a contract, lease or
         agreement to which the government of Malaysia or of any
         State within Malaysia is a party or to which such government
         has consented;

      “dutiable goods” means all goods which are subject to the
         payment of customs duty on import into or export from
         Malaysia and on which such duty has not yet been paid;

      “export”, with its grammatical variations and cognate
         expressions, means to take or cause to be taken out of
         Malaysia by land or air, otherwise than by post;

      “exporter” includes any owner or other person for the time being
         beneficially interested in any goods at the time at which such
         goods enter Singapore from Malaysia by land or air;

      “Federal Customs Officer” means any officer whose
         appointment is approved under section 5;
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958               5

“Federal officer of customs” means —

          (a) any Collector;

          (b) any Federal Superintendent of Customs and Excise;
               and

          (c) any Federal Customs Officer;

“Federal Superintendent of Customs and Excise” means any
   officer appointed by the President under section 3(2);

“goods” includes animals, birds, fish, plants and all kinds of
   movable property;

“import”, with its grammatical variations and cognate
   expressions, means to take or cause to be taken into
   Malaysia by land, air or post;

“importer” includes any person, company, firm, society or other
   body of persons in Malaysia to whom, or to which, goods are
   consigned by land, air or post;

“other charges” includes warehouse rent, weighing fees,
   handling charges and overtime fees, and any other moneys
   payable under the provisions of this Act or any regulations
   made thereunder, except customs duty;

“passenger” means a person travelling by railway or aircraft
   from Singapore to Malaysia or vice versa;

“prohibited goods” means goods the import of which into or the
   export of which from Malaysia is prohibited either absolutely
   or conditionally by any written law for the time being in force
   in Malaysia;

“railway” has the same meaning as in the Railways Act 1905;

                                            31.12.2021
   States of Malaya Customs Duties

6  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

   “value”, in relation to goods declared for import, means the price
      which an importer would give at the time of declaration for
      import for the goods on a purchase in the open market if the
      goods were delivered to him at the place of payment of
      customs duty and if freight, insurance, commission and all
      other costs, charges and expenses (except any customs duty)
      incidental to the purchase and delivery at such place had been
      paid.

                                    PART 2

         APPOINTMENTS AND POWERS OF OFFICERS

Appointment of Collector and Federal Superintendents of
Customs and Excise

 3.—(1) The President may, on the nomination of the Yang
di-Pertuan Agong, by notification in the Gazette, appoint an officer
to be the Collector of Federal Customs Duties who shall be in charge
of all collection stations and have the superintendence of all matters
relating thereto.

 (2) The President may, on the nomination of the Yang di-Pertuan
Agong, by notification in the Gazette, appoint so many officers as he
may consider necessary to be Federal Superintendents of Customs
and Excise for the purpose of this Act.

Powers of Collector and Federal Superintendents

 4. The Collector and all Federal Superintendents of Customs and
Excise shall have and exercise all the powers conferred by this Act on
Federal Superintendents of Customs and Excise and Federal Customs
Officers.

Appointment of Federal Customs Officers

 5. The President may approve the appointment by the Yang
di-Pertuan Agong of officers to be Federal Customs Officers and
any such officer shall by virtue of such approval have and exercise all
the powers conferred by this Act on Federal Customs Officers.
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              7

Officers to be public servants

 6. The Collector, all Federal Superintendents of Customs and
Excise and all Federal Customs Officers appointed or approved under
the provisions of this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Authority cards to be produced

 7.—(1) Every Federal officer of customs when acting against any
person under this Act shall, if not in uniform, on demand declare his
office and produce to the person against whom he is acting such
authority card as the Collector may direct to be carried by that officer.

 (2) It shall not be an offence for any person to refuse to comply with
any request, demand or order made by any Federal officer of customs
acting or purporting to act under this Act if that officer is not in
uniform and refuses to declare his office and produce his authority
card, on demand being made by that person.

                                    PART 3

         ESTABLISHMENT OF COLLECTION STATIONS

Establishment of collection stations

 8.—(1) The President may, in accordance with a request of the
Yang di-Pertuan Agong, establish collection stations in order to
facilitate —

       (a) the collection of customs duty and other charges on goods
            exported from or to be imported into Malaysia;

       (b) the conduct of any other business and the exercise of any
            powers conferred by the provisions of this Act.

 (2) A Federal officer of customs may collect at any collection
station the customs duty and other charges due to the government of
Malaysia on the import or export of goods and all moneys so
collected shall be paid into the general revenue of Malaysia.

                                           31.12.2021
   States of Malaya Customs Duties

8                   Collection Act 1958  2020 Ed.

Valuation of goods

 9.—(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the customs duty, if any,
leviable thereon, any Federal officer of customs may value, weigh,
measure, or otherwise examine, or cause to be valued, weighed,
measured or otherwise examined any goods or passengers’ baggage
delivered to a collection station.

 (2) When a valuation of any goods has been made by a Federal
officer of customs, the valuation shall be presumed to be correct until
the contrary is proved.

Return of customs duty or other charges overpaid

 10. It shall be lawful for the Collector, if it is proved to his
satisfaction that any money has been overpaid as customs duty or
other charges under this Act, to order the refund of the money so
overpaid:

 Provided that no such refund shall be allowed unless a claim in
respect thereof is made within one year after the overpayment was
made.

Payment of customs duty, etc., short paid or erroneously
refunded

 11.—(1) Whenever —

       (a) through inadvertence, error, collusion or misconstruction
            on the part of any Federal officer of customs, or through
            misstatement as to value, quantity or description by any
            person, or for any other reason, the whole or any part of
            any customs duty or other charges payable under this Act
            has not been paid; or
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              9

(b) the whole or any part of such customs duty or other
     charges, after having been paid, has been, owing to any
     cause, erroneously refunded,

the person liable to pay such customs duty or other charges or the
person to whom such refund has erroneously been made, as the case
may be, shall pay the deficiency or repay the amount paid to him in
excess, on demand being made within 12 months from the date on
which customs duty was payable or deficient customs duty was paid
or the refund was made, as the case may be, and without prejudice to
any other remedy for the recovery of the amount due, any dutiable
goods belonging to that person which may be in any collection station
may be detained until the customs duty or deficiency is paid or the
refund is repaid, as the case may be.

 (2) When any goods have been detained in accordance with
subsection (1), the Collector may after giving not less than
14 days’ notice in writing to the owner (if the name and address of
the owner are known to him), or after giving not less than 14 days’
notice in the Gazette (if the name and address of the owner are not
known to him) sell the goods.

 (3) The proceeds of the sale of any such goods shall be applied to
the payment of the charges that have been occasioned by the sale and
of the customs duty and other charges leviable in accordance with
subsection (1), and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the owner of
such goods, and if the owner cannot be found within one month of the
sale, the surplus shall be paid to the general revenue of Malaysia.

 (4) If at the sale of any such goods no sufficient bid is forthcoming
to satisfy the customs duty and charges which are due in respect of the
goods, the goods shall be forfeited to the government of Malaysia and
shall be disposed of in such manner as the Collector may direct.

Abatement of customs duty

 12. After payment of customs duty, no abatement of such duty shall
be allowed on any goods on account of damage, or on account of any
claim —

       (a) to pay duty at a preferential rate; or

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

10  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

    (b) that the weight, measure, volume or value as determined by
         a Federal officer of customs for the purpose of ascertaining
         the duty on the goods or any other factor affecting the
         goods is incorrect,

unless notice in writing of the claim has been given at or before the
time of the payment of the customs duty.

Calculation of customs duty

 13. The rate of customs duty and the valuation, if any, applicable to
any dutiable goods shall be determined in accordance with the
provisions of the Customs Act 1967 (M. 235 (1980)) of Malaysia or
any other Act of Malaysia amending or replacing that Act.

                                    PART 4

           DECLARATION OF GOODS AND PAYMENT
                           OF CUSTOMS DUTY

Declaration of goods imported and payment of duty

 14.—(1) Subject to this Act, goods to be imported into Malaysia
through a collection station shall not be loaded for despatch at or
through the collection station until the importer or the consignor has,
personally or by his agent —

       (a) made to a Federal officer of customs at the collection
            station a declaration in the prescribed form giving
            particulars of the goods to be imported; and

       (b) paid any import duty and other charges leviable on such
            goods:

      Provided that such declaration and payment of import duty shall
not be required if the owner of any goods to be imported through a
collection station consents, either personally or by his agent, to
consign the goods in a manner satisfactory to a Federal officer of
customs to a customs warehouse or a licensed warehouse in Malaysia
established in accordance with the law of Malaysia.

 (2) Every passenger shall at a collection station or at any point
between the Malayan Railway Station at Keppel Road, Singapore and
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              11

the limits of Singapore declare to a Federal officer of customs all
dutiable or prohibited goods in his possession, either on his person or
in any baggage and shall pay any import duty leviable thereon.

Declaration of goods exported and payment of duty

 15.—(1) Whenever goods are exported through a collection station,
the exporter or the consignee thereof shall make, personally or by his
agent, to a Federal officer of customs at the collection station a
declaration in the prescribed form, giving particulars of the goods
exported, and shall pay to the Federal officer of customs any export
duty and other charges leviable on the goods:

      Provided that such declaration shall not be required in respect of
any goods on which it is shown to the satisfaction of a Federal officer
of customs that export duty has been paid at a customs station in
Malaysia prior to the export of the goods.

 (2) A Federal officer of customs may refuse delivery of any goods
exported through a collection station until the export duty and other
charges leviable on the goods have been paid.

 (3) If the export duty payable in respect of such goods is not paid
within 3 months from the time when possession of them was taken by
a Federal officer of customs, the goods shall be sold by public
auction, and the proceeds of the sale thereof shall be applied in
payment of the charges that have been occasioned by the sale and of
the export duty and other charges leviable in accordance with
subsection (1), and the surplus thereof, if any, shall be paid to the
owner of the goods, and if the owner cannot be found within one
month of the sale, the surplus shall be paid to the general revenue of
Malaysia.

 (4) Particulars of any intended sale shall be published in the Gazette
not less than 14 days prior to the date of the sale.

 (5) If at the sale of any such goods no sufficient bid is forthcoming
to defray the export duty and charges which are due in respect of the
goods, the goods shall be forfeited to the government of Malaysia and
shall be disposed of in such manner as the Collector may direct.

                                           31.12.2021
                   States of Malaya Customs Duties

12                 Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

Control of agents

 16.—(1) No person shall act as agent for transacting business
relating to the import or export through a collection station of any
goods except with the permission of the Collector.

 (2) When any person applies to the Collector for permission to act
as agent on behalf of another person, the Collector may require the
applicant to produce a written authority from the person on whose
behalf he is to act and in default of that authority the Collector may
refuse such permission.

 (3) Before granting such permission, the Collector may require the
agent to give such security as he may consider adequate for the
faithful and incorrupt conduct of the agent and of his clerks acting for
him both as regards the customs and his employers.

 (4) The Collector may suspend or cancel any permission granted
under this section, if the agent commits any breach of this Act or of
any regulations made thereunder or if he fails to comply with any
direction given by a Federal officer of customs with regard to the
business transacted by the agent.

 (5) Any person who acts as agent when permission has not been
granted to him under this section or while such permission is
cancelled or suspended, or who makes or causes to be made a
declaration of any goods without being duly authorised for that
purpose by the importer or exporter or consignor or consignee of the
goods shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $500.
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              13

 (6) The clerk or employee of any person or firm may transact
business generally at any collection station on behalf of that person or
firm:

      Provided that the Collector may refuse to transact business with
such clerk or employee unless the person or a member of the firm
identifies the clerk or employee to the Collector as empowered to
transact the business and deposits with the Collector a signed
authority authorising the clerk or employee to transact such business
on behalf of that person or firm.

                                    PART 5

             DUTIABLE GOODS IMPORTED BY POST

Examination of postal articles

 17.—(1) All postal articles consigned to Malaysia, whether posted
within Singapore or elsewhere, may by arrangement with a duly
authorised officer of a public postal licensee, be examined while in
the custody of the public postal licensee by any Federal officer of
customs, and may be opened by an officer of that public postal
licensee in the presence of a Federal officer of customs for the
purpose of such examination.

 (2) In this section, “public postal licensee” has the meaning given
by the Postal Services Act 1999.

                                                                                                               [12/92]

Assessment of customs duty

 18. When any postal article consigned to Malaysia is found to
contain any dutiable goods, a Federal officer of customs may assess
the amount of customs duty leviable thereon.

Forfeiture of postal articles containing undeclared dutiable
goods

 19.—(1) Any postal article consigned to Malaysia found upon
examination to contain dutiable goods, that postal article not having
affixed thereto a true declaration of such goods, shall be liable to
forfeiture by order of the Collector.

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

14  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

 (2) A Federal Superintendent of Customs and Excise may
compound the offence by accepting from the addressee or
consignor of any postal article liable to forfeiture under
subsection (1) a sum not exceeding $500 and shall thereupon
release that article on payment of the customs duty due thereon.

Application
 20. The provisions of this Act relating to —
       (a) levy of import duty;
       (b) search and seizure;
       (c) trials and proceedings; and
       (d) offences and penalties,

shall apply so far as the same can be made applicable and are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Part to the importation of
goods by post and to goods imported by post.

                                    PART 6

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Documents in support of declaration to be produced

 21. On demand of a Federal officer of customs, the importer or
exporter or consignor or consignee of any goods or his agent shall
produce to such officer all invoices, certificates of origin or of
analysis and any other document which that officer may require to
test the accuracy of any declaration made by the importer or exporter
or consignor or consignee or agent to any Federal officer of customs.

Taking of samples

 22.—(1) A Federal officer of customs may at any time, if his duty
so requires, take samples of any goods in a collection station in order
to ascertain whether they are goods of a description liable to customs
duty, or to ascertain the customs duty payable on such goods or for
such other purpose as a Federal Superintendent of Customs and
Excise may think necessary for the purpose of this Act.
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              15

 (2) No payment shall be made for the cost of any sample taken, but
the Federal officer of customs shall, on demand, give a receipt for any
such sample.

 (3) Any sample taken in accordance with subsection (1) shall be
disposed of in such manner as the Collector shall direct.

Weighing and handling charges

 23. All necessary operations relating to the loading, unloading,
carrying, weighing, opening, unpacking, repacking, bulking, sorting
and marking of goods or passengers’ baggage in a collection station
shall be performed by or at the expense of the owner, importer,
exporter, consignor, consignee or agent, as the case may be:

 Provided that a Federal Superintendent of Customs and Excise may
at his discretion direct that any such operation be performed by
Federal Customs Officers or by any other person under his control,
and in any such case the operation shall be performed at the expense
of the owner, importer, exporter, consignor, consignee or agent, as the
case may be.

Powers while in transit in relation to baggage

 24. Any Federal officer of customs may in any railway at any point
between the Malayan Railway Station at Keppel Road, Singapore and
the limits of Singapore exercise in respect of any passenger and the
goods and baggage of any passenger in such railway all the powers
and perform all the duties which he is authorised by this Act to
exercise or perform at a collection station.

Protection of government of Malaysia and Federal officers of
customs from liability

 25. Neither the government of Malaysia nor any Federal officer of
customs nor any other person employed in connection with the
Malaysia Customs shall be liable to make good any loss sustained in
respect of any goods by fire, theft, damage or any other cause while
the goods are in any collection station or in the lawful custody or
control of any Federal officer of customs or of any person employed
in connection with the Malaysia Customs unless the loss is caused by
the wilful neglect or default of such officer or employee.

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

16  Collection Act 1958                2020 Ed.

Lien over goods deposited

 26.—(1) When any goods have been deposited in a collection
station for a period exceeding 4 days reckoned from the date of
deposit, the Collector may remove them to such place as he may in his
discretion think fit and the Collector shall have a lien on the goods for
any expenses incurred.

(2) If any goods are not cleared —

    (a) from a collection station; or

    (b) from any place to which the Collector has removed them in
         accordance with subsection (1),

within a period of one month reckoned from the date of deposit of the
goods, the Collector may, after giving not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing to the owner (if the name and address of the owner are known
to him) or after giving not less than 14 days’ notice in the Gazette (if
the name and address of the owner are not known to him), sell the
goods.

 (3) The proceeds of the sale of any such goods shall be applied to
the payment of the charges that have been occasioned by the sale and
of any customs duty and other charges which may be due in respect of
the goods or any other goods deposited in a collection station by or on
behalf of the consignor of the goods, and the surplus, if any, shall be
paid to the owner of the goods, and if the owner cannot be found
within one month of the sale, the surplus shall be paid into the general
revenue of Malaysia.

 (4) If at the sale of any such goods no sufficient bid is forthcoming
to defray the customs duty and charges which are due in respect of the
goods, the goods shall be forfeited to the government of Malaysia and
shall be disposed of in such manner as the Collector may direct.
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              17

          PART 7

          SEARCH AND SEIZURE

Power to open packages and examine goods and to stop and
search conveyances

 27.—(1) For the purposes of carrying out the provisions of
section 9, a Federal officer of customs may, within the limits of a
collection station —

(a) open or cause to be opened any case, bale or other package
     and may take samples, and may examine the contents
     thereof and may seal, mark or secure or cause to be sealed,
     marked or secured any such case, bale or package or any of
     its contents in such manner as he may see fit;

(b) stop or detain any conveyance and examine the contents
     thereof;

          (c) if necessary for the purpose of carrying out a proper tally or
              examination of any goods exported from or intended to be
              imported into Malaysia, stop or cause to be stopped or
              otherwise control or direct the loading or unloading of any
              such goods.

 (2) The owner, importer, exporter, consignor, consignee or other
person for the time being in charge of any goods shall be permitted to
be present at any examination of the goods carried out under this
section.

 (3) If a Federal officer of customs has in the exercise of his powers
under this section stopped the loading or unloading of any goods
exported from or intended to be imported into Malaysia, the loading
or unloading shall not be resumed without his permission.

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

18  Collection Act 1958                     2020 Ed.

Seizure of goods the subject of an offence

 28.—(1) All goods in respect of which any Federal officer of
customs reasonably suspects that any offence has been or is being
committed under this Act or any regulations made thereunder,
together with any receptacle, package or conveyance in which the
goods have been found or which has been used in connection with the
offence, and any books or documents which a Federal officer of
customs reasonably believes to have a bearing on the case, may be
seized by any Federal officer of customs.

 (2) All such goods and all such receptacles, packages, conveyances,
books and documents shall, as soon as conveniently may be, be
delivered into the care of a Federal Superintendent of Customs and
Excise.

 (3) Whenever any goods, conveyances, books or documents are
seized under this Act, the seizing officer shall forthwith give notice in
writing of the seizure and the grounds thereof to the owner of such
goods, if known, either by delivering the notice to him personally, or
by post at any address given by him:

      Provided that such notice shall not be required to be given where
the seizure is made on the person, or in the presence of the offender or
the owner or his agent, as the case may be.

 (4) The provisions of this section relating to the seizure of goods
shall apply to all the contents of any package or receptacle in which
the goods are found and to any conveyance or article used to conceal
the goods.

 (5) Any goods of a perishable nature seized under this section may
be sold forthwith on the orders of a Federal Superintendent of
Customs and Excise and the proceeds of sale held to abide the result
of any prosecution or claim.
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.              Collection Act 1958                    19

Search of passengers

 29. Any person leaving or about to leave Singapore and proceed to
Malaysia by aircraft shall at any collection station, and any person
leaving or about to leave Singapore and proceed to Malaysia by
railway shall at any collection station or any point between the
Malayan Railway Station at Keppel Road, Singapore and the limits of
Singapore, on demand by any Federal officer of customs permit his
person, goods and baggage to be searched by that officer:

 Provided that —

(a) any person who requests that his person be searched in the
     presence of a Federal Superintendent of Customs and
     Excise shall not be searched except in the presence of and
     under the supervision of that officer;

(b) the goods and baggage of any person who requests to be
     present when they are searched and so presents himself
     within a reasonable time shall not be searched except in his
     presence;

          (c) no woman shall be searched except by a woman.

                                    PART 8

       PROVISIONS AS TO TRIALS AND PROCEEDINGS

Who may prosecute

 30. Prosecutions in respect of offences committed under this Act or
any regulations made thereunder may, with the authorisation of the
Public Prosecutor, be conducted by any Federal Superintendent of
Customs and Excise.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Jurisdiction of District Courts

 31. Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law to the
contrary, a District Court shall have jurisdiction to try any offence
under this Act and to award the full punishment for any such offence.

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

20  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

Notification in the Malaysia Gazette to be sufficient evidence

 32. A notification published in the Gazette of the government of
Malaysia of the customs duty or any other charges payable to that
government under the provisions of the Customs Act 1967
(M. 235 (1980)) of Malaysia or any other Act of Malaysia
amending or replacing that Act or of the value of any goods fixed
for the purpose of levying any customs duty, or of the prohibition on
import into or export from Malaysia of any goods under any written
law of Malaysia for the time being in force, shall be sufficient
evidence for the purpose of any proceedings under this Act or any
regulations made thereunder of the matters appearing in such
notification.

Burden of proof

 33. If, in any prosecution in respect of any goods seized for
non-payment of customs duty or for any other cause of forfeiture or
for the recovery of any penalty or penalties under this Act, any
dispute arises whether the customs duty has been paid in respect of
the goods, or whether the goods have been lawfully imported or
exported, or lawfully loaded, or concerning the place from where the
goods were brought or where the goods were loaded, then and in
every such case the burden of proof thereof shall lie on the defendant
in the prosecution.

Proportional examination of goods seized

 34. When any goods suspected of being liable to seizure have been
seized, it shall be sufficient to open, examine, and if necessary test the
contents of 10% only of each description of package or receptacle in
which the goods are contained and the court shall presume that the
goods contained in the unopened packages or receptacles are of the
same nature, quantity and quality as those found in the similar
packages or receptacles which have been opened.
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              21

Certificate of analyst may be accepted

 35.—(1) In any prosecution for a breach of a provision of this Act
or of any regulations made thereunder, a certificate of analysis
purporting to be under the hand of an analyst shall, on production
thereof by the prosecutor, be sufficient evidence of the facts stated
therein unless the defendant requires that the analyst be called as a
witness, in which case he shall give notice thereof to the prosecutor
not less than 7 clear days before the commencement of the inquiry,
trial or other proceeding.

 (2) In like manner a certificate of analysis purporting to be under
the hand of an analyst shall, on production thereof by the defendant,
be sufficient evidence of the facts stated therein, unless the prosecutor
requires that the analyst be called as a witness.

 (3) A copy of the certificate referred to in subsection (2) shall be
sent to the prosecutor at least 7 clear days before the commencement
of the inquiry, trial or other proceeding, and if it is not so sent the
court may adjourn the hearing on such terms as it may think proper.

 (4) Analysts are by this Act bound to state the truth in certificates of
analysis under their hands.

 (5) If an analyst is called as a witness by the defendant as provided
by subsection (1), he shall be called at the expense of the defendant
unless the court otherwise directs.

 (6) In this section, “analyst” means a person employed as a chemist
by the Government either of Singapore or of Malaysia.

Imprisonment for non-payment of fine

 36. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, the period of imprisonment imposed by any court in
respect of the non-payment of any fine under this Act, or in respect of
the default of a sufficient distress to satisfy any such fine, shall be
such period as in the opinion of the court will satisfy the justice of the
case, but shall not exceed in any case the maximum fixed by the
following scale:

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

22  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

          Where the fine:     The period may extend to:
                                        2 months
(a) does not exceed $25                 4 months

(b) exceeds $25 but does not            6 months
     exceed $50

(c) exceeds $50 but does not
     exceed $100

with 2 additional months for every $100 after the first $100 of the fine
until a maximum period of 3 years is reached.

Manner of seizure not to be enquired into

 37. On any trial before any court and in any proceeding on appeal in
the Supreme Court, relating to the seizure of goods subject to
forfeiture under this Act, the court shall proceed to the trial or hear the
appeal on the merits of the case only, without inquiring into the
manner or form of making any seizure, except insofar as the manner
and form of seizure may be evidence on such merits.

Protection of informers

 38.—(1) Except as hereinafter provided, no witness in any civil or
criminal proceeding shall be obliged or permitted to disclose the
name or address of an informer or the substance of the information
received from him or state any matter which might lead to his
discovery.

 (2) If any books, documents or papers which are in evidence or
liable to inspection in any civil or criminal proceeding whatsoever
contain any entry in which any informer is named or described or
which might lead to his discovery, the court shall cause all such
passages to be concealed from view or to be obliterated so far only as
may be necessary to protect the informer from discovery.

 (3) If on the trial for any offence under this Act or any regulations
made thereunder the court after full inquiry into the case believes that
the informer wilfully made in his complaint a material statement
which he knew or believed to be false or did not believe to be true, or
if in any other proceeding the court is of opinion that justice cannot be
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              23

fully done between the parties thereto without the discovery of the
informer, it shall be lawful for the court to require the production of
the original complaint, if in writing, and permit inquiry, and require
full disclosure, concerning the informer.

Goods liable to seizure liable to forfeiture

 39. All goods liable to seizure under the provisions of this Act shall
be liable to forfeiture.

Court to order disposal of goods seized

 40.—(1) An order for the forfeiture or for the release of anything
liable to forfeiture under the provisions of this Act shall be made by
the court before which the prosecution with regard thereto has been
held, and an order for the forfeiture of goods shall be made if it is
proved to the satisfaction of the court that an offence under this Act or
any regulations made thereunder has been committed and that the
goods were the subject matter, or were used in the commission, of the
offence notwithstanding that no person may have been convicted of
the offence.

 (2) All goods forfeited under subsection (1) shall be ordered to be
delivered into the custody of the Collector.

 (3) If such goods are sold, the proceeds of the sale shall be paid into
the general revenue of Malaysia.

Disposal of goods seized in respect of which there is no
prosecution

 41.—(1) If there is no prosecution with regard to any goods seized
under this Act, such goods shall be taken and deemed to be forfeited
at the expiration of one calendar month from the date of seizure
unless a claim thereto is made before that date in the manner
hereinafter set forth.

 (2) Any person asserting that he is the owner of such goods may
personally or by his agent authorised in writing give written notice to
the Collector that he claims the goods.

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

24  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

 (3) On receipt of such notice the Collector may direct that the goods
be released or may, by information in the prescribed form, refer the
matter to a District Judge or to a Magistrate for his decision.

 (4) The District Judge or the Magistrate shall issue a summons
requiring the person asserting that he is the owner of the goods and
the person from whom they were seized to appear before him, and
upon their appearance or default to appear, due service of the
summons being proved, the District Judge or the Magistrate shall
proceed to the examination of the matter and on proof that an offence
under this Act has been committed and that such goods were the
subject matter, or were used in the commission, of such offence shall
order the goods to be forfeited, or may in the absence of such proof
order their release.

 (5) In any proceedings under subsection (4), section 33 shall apply
to the person asserting that he is the owner of the goods and to the
person from whom they were seized as if such owner or person had
been the defendant in a prosecution under this Act.

Proceedings under other laws

 42. Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to prevent the prosecution,
conviction and punishment of any person according to the provisions
of any other written law for the time being in force in Singapore; but
so that no person shall be punished more than once for the same
offence.

Compounding of offences

 43.—(1) Any Federal Superintendent of Customs and Excise may
compound any offence, which is prescribed to be a compoundable
offence, by accepting from the person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $500.

 (2) In like manner any Federal Customs Officer may compound any
offence, which is prescribed to be compoundable by that officer, by
accepting from the person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding $20.

 (3) On the payment of such sum the person reasonably suspected of
having committed the offence, if in custody shall be discharged, any
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              25

property seized shall be released and no further proceedings shall be
taken against that person or property.

No costs or damages in respect of seizure unless without
reasonable or probable cause

 44. No person shall, in any proceedings before any court in respect
of the seizure of any goods seized in exercise or the purported
exercise of any power conferred under this Act, be entitled to the
costs of the proceedings or to any damages or other relief other than
an order for the return of the goods or the payment of their value
unless the seizure was made without reasonable or probable cause.

                                    PART 9

                     OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Incorrect declaration and documents

 45. Whoever makes, orally or in writing, or signs, any declaration,
certificate or other document required by this Act which is untrue or
incorrect in any material particular shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Penalty for various offences
 46. Whoever —

       (a) unlawfully removes or in any way assists or is concerned in
            unlawfully removing any goods from a collection station;
            or

       (b) at any time before their importation into Malaysia opens,
            changes, substitutes, adds to or otherwise tampers with any
            goods or passengers’ baggage which have been duly
            declared at a collection station,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —
       (c) in the case of dutiable goods —

               (i) for a first offence to a fine of not less than 6 times the
                   amount of the customs duty or $5,000, whichever is
                   the lesser amount, and of not more than 20 times the

                                                                                              31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

26  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

    amount of the customs duty or $5,000 whichever is
    the greater amount:

       Provided that when the amount of customs duty
    cannot be ascertained the penalty may amount to a
    fine not exceeding $5,000; and

    (ii) for a second or any subsequent offence to such fine
         or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
         or to both;

    (d) in the case of non-dutiable or prohibited goods, to a fine of
         not less than twice the value of the goods or $5,000,
         whichever is the lesser amount, and of not more than
         5 times the value of the goods or $5,000 whichever is the
         greater amount:

       Provided that where the value of the goods cannot be
    ascertained the penalty may amount to a fine not exceeding
    $5,000.

Assaulting or obstructing Federal officers of customs and
rescuing seized goods

 47. Every person who —

       (a) assaults or obstructs any Federal officer of customs or
            other public servant or any person acting in his aid or
            assistance or duly employed for the prevention of offences
            under this Act, in the execution of his duty or in the due
            seizing of any goods liable to seizure under this Act;

       (b) rescues or endeavours to rescue, or causes to be rescued,
            any goods which have been duly seized; or

       (c) before or after any seizure staves, breaks or otherwise
            destroys any package or goods to prevent the seizure
            thereof or the securing of the package or goods,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (d) for a first offence to a fine not exceeding $2,000 or to
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 9 months or to
            both; and
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              27

          (e) for a second or any subsequent offence to a fine not
              exceeding $5,000 and to imprisonment for a term not
              exceeding 18 months.

Offering or receiving bribes

 48.—(1) If any Federal officer of customs or other person duly
employed for the prevention of offences under this Act —

       (a) makes any collusive seizure or delivers up or makes any
            agreement to deliver up or not to seize any means of
            conveyance, or any goods liable to seizure;

       (b) accepts, agrees to accept, or attempts to obtain, any bribe,
            gratuity, recompense or reward for the neglect or
            non-performance of his duty; or

       (c) conspires or connives with any person to import or export
            or is in any way concerned in the importation or
            exportation of any goods liable to customs duty or any
            goods prohibited to be imported or exported for the
            purpose of seizing any conveyance or any goods and
            obtaining any reward for such seizure or otherwise,

every such officer or such other person so offending shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both
and every person who gives or offers or promises to give or procures
to be given any bribe, gratuity, recompense or reward to, or makes
any collusive agreement with, any such officer or person to induce
him in any way to neglect his duty or to do, conceal or connive at any
act whereby any of the provisions of any other written law of
Malaysia relating to imports or to exports may be evaded, shall be
guilty as an abettor and so punishable under this Act.

 (2) Any Federal officer of customs who is found when on duty to
have in his possession any money in contravention of any
departmental regulations issued in writing shall be presumed, until
the contrary is proved, to have received the money in contravention of
subsection (1)(b).

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

28  Collection Act 1958              2020 Ed.

 (3) If a Federal officer of customs has reasonable suspicion that
another Federal officer of customs junior in rank to him has in his
possession any money received in contravention of subsection (1)(b),
he may search that other officer.

Offences for which no other provision is made

 49. Every omission or neglect to comply with, and every act done or
attempted to be done contrary to, the provisions of this Act, or any
breach of the conditions and restrictions subject to, or upon which,
any licence or permit is issued under this Act, shall be an offence and
in respect of any such offence for which no penalty is expressly
provided the offender shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000.

Attempt and abetment

 50. Whoever attempts to commit any offence punishable under this
Act, or abets the commission of that offence, shall be punished with
the punishment for that offence.

Offences by bodies of persons and by employees or agents

 51.—(1) Where an offence under this Act or any regulations made
thereunder has been committed by a company, firm, society or other
body of persons, any person who at the time of the commission of the
offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer or a
partner of the company, firm, society or other body of persons or was
purporting to act in such capacity shall be deemed to be guilty of that
offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without his
consent or connivance and that he exercised all such diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have exercised,
having regard to the nature of his function in that capacity and to all
the circumstances.

 (2) Where any person would be liable under this Act to any
punishment, penalty or forfeiture for any act, omission, neglect or
default, he shall be liable to the same punishment, penalty or
forfeiture for every such act, omission, neglect or default of any clerk,
employee or agent, or of the clerk or employee of such agent where
such act, omission, neglect or default was committed by that clerk or
          States of Malaya Customs Duties

2020 Ed.  Collection Act 1958              29

employee in the course of his employment or by that agent when
acting on behalf of that person or by the clerk or employee of that
agent when acting in the course of his employment in such
circumstances that had the act, omission, neglect or default been
committed by the agent his principal would have been liable under
this section.

                                   PART 10

                                  GENERAL

Rewards

 52. The Collector may order such rewards as he may think fit to be
paid to any officer or other person for services rendered in connection
with the detection of offences under this Act, or in connection with
any seizure made under this Act.

Powers of officers under certain Singapore Acts

 53. All Federal Superintendents of Customs and Excise and all
Federal Customs Officers shall have and may exercise all or any of
the powers of an officer of customs under the Customs Act 1960 and
the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973.

Persons legally bound to give information

 54. Every person required by a Federal officer of customs to give
information on any subject into which it is that officer’s duty to
inquire under this Act and which it is in that person’s power to give
shall be legally bound to give the information.

Packing of dutiable goods

 55. No dutiable goods shall be packed in a manner calculated to
deceive a Federal officer of customs so that a proper account of the
goods may not be taken.

Power to make regulations

 56. The President may at the request of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong
make regulations —

                                           31.12.2021
    States of Malaya Customs Duties

30  Collection Act 1958                                    2020 Ed.

    (a) to regulate the powers and duties to be exercised and
         performed by Federal Superintendents of Customs and
         Excise and Federal Customs Officers;

    (b) to regulate the conduct of all matters relating to the
         collection of customs duty;

    (c) to prescribe the days and times during which any collection
        station or customs warehouse may be open for business;

    (d) to prescribe the rates of overtime fees to be paid by the
         importers or exporters of goods or their agents in respect of
         the services of Federal officers of customs rendered on
         request beyond the ordinary hours prescribed and the
         conditions under which such overtime may be permitted;

    (e) to regulate the deposit, custody and withdrawal of goods in
        and from a collection station and the management and
        control of the same;

    (f) to prescribe the amount to be paid as warehouse rent on
        goods deposited in a collection station;

    (g) to prescribe the limits of the place or places at which
         collection stations are situated;

    (h) to prescribe the charges to be paid for operations
         performed under section 23 by Federal officers of
         customs or other persons under the control of Federal
         officers of customs;

    (i) to prescribe the forms to be used under this Act;

    (j) to prescribe the offences which may be compounded and
        the manner in which, and the Federal officers of customs
        by whom, they may be compounded;

    (k) to prescribe the fees to be paid for any act or service done
        or rendered by any Federal officer of customs which is not
        required to be done or rendered under this Act and for
        which no fee is prescribed by any written law; and

    (l) generally to give effect to the provisions of this Act.
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
             STATES OF MALAYA CUSTOMS DUTIES

                         COLLECTION ACT 1958

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                               PART 1
      FEDERATION OF MALAYA EXPORT DUTIES

                 COLLECTION ORDINANCE
        (CHAPTER 163, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance X of 1913 — The Federated Malay States Export Duties
                                   Collection Ordinance 1913

Bill                  : G.N. No. 529/1913

First Reading         : 27 June 1913

Second Reading        : 22 August 1913

Notice of Amendments  : 15 September 1913

Third Reading         : 3 October 1913

Commencement          : 1 February 1918

2. Ordinance 11 of 1918 — Federated Malay States Export Duties
                                    Collection (Amendment) Ordinance, 1918

Bill                  : G.N. No. 554/1918

First Reading         : 27 May 1918

Second and Third Readings : 17 June 1918

Commencement          : 25 June 1918

                                             31.12.2021
                         ii

3. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 137 (Federated Malay States
                                    Export Duties Collection)

Operation                : 28 November 1921

4. Ordinance 39 of 1922 — Federated Malay States Export Duties
                                    Collection (Amendment) Ordinance, 1922

Bill                     : Information not available

First, Second and Third  : 20 December 1922
Readings

Commencement             : 27 December 1922

5. Ordinance 18 of 1924 — Federated Malay States Export Duties
                                    Amendment Ordinance, 1924

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1635/1924

First Reading            : 15 September 1924

Second Reading           : 6 October 1924

Third Reading            : 3 November 1924

Commencement             : 26 November 1924

6. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 137 (Federated Malay States
                                    Export Duties Collection)

Operation                : 1 August 1926

7. Ordinance 12 of 1927 — Federated Malay States Export Duties
                                    Collection Amendment Ordinance 1927

Bill                     : G.N. No. 1051/1927

First Reading            : 11 July 1927

Second Reading           : 22 August 1927

Third Reading            : 10 October 1927

Commencement             : 24 October 1927

8. 1936 Revised Edition — Federated Malay States Export Duties
                                    Collection Ordinance (Chapter 232)

Operation                : 1 September 1936

9. 1955 Revised Edition — Federation of Malaya Export Duties Collection
                                   Ordinance (Chapter 163)

Operation                : 1 July 1956
                      iii

                                            PART 2
    STATES OF MALAYA CUSTOMS DUTIES COLLECTION ACT 1958

                               (2020 REVISED EDITION)

10. Ordinance 24 of 1958 — Federation of Malaya Customs Duties
                                      Collection Ordinance, 1958

Bill                  : 143/1958

First Reading         : 22 April 1958

Second Reading        : 11 June 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 16 July 1958

Third Reading         : 16 July 1958

Commencement          : 11 February 1959

11. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

12. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

13. G.N. No. S 186/1966 — Modification of Laws (Federation of Malaya
                                    Customs Duties Collection) Order, 1966

Commencement          : 2 September 1966

Note: The Federation of Malaya Customs Duties Collection
        Ordinance, 1958 was renamed as the States of Malaya Customs
        Duties Collection Ordinance by this Order.

14. 1970 Revised Edition — States of Malaya Customs Duties Collection Act
                                    (Chapter 148)

Operation             : 30 April 1971

15. 1985 Revised Edition — States of Malaya Customs Duties Collection Act
                                    (Chapter 316)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

16. Act 12 of 1992 — Telecommunication Authority of Singapore Act 1992
     (Amendments made by section 132(4) read with paragraph 4 of the
     Fourth Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 16/1992

First Reading         : 27 February 1992
                                     iv

       Second Reading                : 19 March 1992

       Notice of Amendments          : 19 March 1992

       Third Reading                 : 19 March 1992

       Commencement                  : 1 April 1992 (section 132(4) read with
                                           paragraph 4 of the Fourth Schedule)

17. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 102 of the Sixth Schedule
     to the above Act)

       Bill                          : 11/2010

       First Reading                 : 26 April 2010

       Second Reading                : 18 May 2010

       Third Reading                 : 19 May 2010

       Commencement                  : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                                           item 102 of the Sixth Schedule)

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
            COMPARATIVE TABLE

STATES OF MALAYA CUSTOMS DUTIES
           COLLECTION ACT 1958

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    1985 Ed.
17—(1) and (2)             17

                                                       31.12.2021
