THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS ACT 1995

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                                                                2020 Ed.

Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION OF RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS

 3. Preparation and promulgation of plans and maps
 4. Power to enter State land to lay and operate railway
 5. Power to enter private land to lay railway
 6. Creation of rights in, under or over land
 7. Owners who suffer substantial impairment in rights in land may

         require their land to be acquired
 7A. Owner-initiated acquisition
 8. Power of entry
 9. Power to enter land for inspection and survey, etc.
10. Utility services
11. Removal of projections or obstructions

                                        PART 3

               OPERATION OF RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS

11A. General considerations
12. Operating rapid transit system without licence
13. Licence to operate rapid transit system
13A. Licence charge
14. Matters to be considered by Authority in granting licence
15. Conditions of licence
16. Modification of terms and conditions of licence
16A. Restrictions on acquisition of essential operating assets
16B. Restrictions on transfer, etc., and surrender of licences
17. Codes of practice

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                                      2

Section   Directions affecting licensees
          Appointment and removal of director, etc., of licensee
   18.    Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.
   18A.   Provisional orders for securing compliance
   19.    Outstanding fees, charges, penalties, etc.
   19A.   Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of licensees
   19B.   Authority to operate rapid transit system
   20.
   21.

          PART 3A

          CONTROL OF DESIGNATED ENTITIES

          Division 1 — Preliminary

21A.      Extraterritorial application of this Part
21B.      Interpretation of this Part
21C.      What holding an equity interest means
21D.      Meanings of “associate”, “related corporation”, “subsidiary”
          and “holding company”
21E.      Designation of designated operating entities and designated
          equity interest holders

          Division 2 — Control of designated entities

21F.      Notice to Authority by 5% controller of designated entity
21G.      Approvals of Authority in relation to equity interests and control
          of voting power in designated entities in certain cases
21H.      Appointment and removal of chief executive officer,
          chairperson, director, etc., of designated entity
21I.      Acquisition of business of designated operating entity as going
          concern
21J.      Occurrence of certain events
21K.      Duty of designated entity or trustee-manager to report changes
          of equity and control of certain persons
21L.      Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of designated
          operating entities

          Division 3 — Remedial directions

21M.      Remedial directions relating to section 21G
21N.      Effect of remedial directions issued under section 21M, etc.
21O.      Remedial directions relating to section 21H
21P.      Remedial directions relating to section 21I
21Q.      Other provisions relating to remedial directions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
3  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                                       2020 Ed.

   Division 4 — Penalties

Section
   21R. Penalties under this Part

                                           PART 4

                                 SAFETY OF RAILWAY

   22. Appointment of inspector
   23. General powers of inspector
   23A. Screening, etc., train passengers or entrants to railway premises
   23B. Obstructing railway premises, etc.
   24. Minister may order defects to be remedied
   25. Offence of wilfully endangering safety
   26. Damage to railway or railway premises
   27. Compensation for damaging railway or railway premises

                                          PART 4A

                  SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDERS AND
                      SCHEMES OF TRANSFERS, ETC., FOR
                          LICENSEES AND DESIGNATED
                                 OPERATING ENTITIES

   27A. Interpretation of this Part
   27B. Meaning and purposes of special administration order
   27C. Power to make special administration order and other orders
   27D. Ancillary directions, etc., when special administration order,

            etc., is made
   27E. Effect of special administration order and other orders
   27F. Duties of relevant entity or trustee-manager, etc.
   27G. Scheme for transfer of property, rights and liabilities from

            existing licensee to new licensee
   27H. Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order
   27I. Regulations for this Part

                                           PART 5

                                          APPEALS

   28. Appeal to Minister
   29. Effect of pending appeal to Minister
   30. Designation of others to hear appeals
   31. to 35. [Spent]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                                4

          PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS

Section   No remedy except under Land Transport Authority of Singapore
   36.    Act 1995
          Advisory guidelines
   36A.   Service of documents
   37.    Certain statements to be conclusive
   38.    Power to require evidence of identity in certain cases
   39.    Powers of arrest
   40.    Authorised employees of licensee, etc., to exercise certain
   41.    powers of Authority’s employees
          Protection from personal liability
   41A.   Jurisdiction of courts
   42.    Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   43.    Composition of offences
   44.    Power to amend Schedule
   44A.   Regulations
   45.    Exemption
   45A.   Transitional provisions
   46.    The Schedule — Services for purposes of

                                paragraph (b) of definition of
                                “essential transport service”

An Act to provide for the planning, construction, operation and
  maintenance of rapid transit systems and the control of entities
  providing essential transport services and their equity interest
  holders.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                                          [1 September 1995]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
5                    Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995         2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act —

   “Authority” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
      established under the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
      Act 1995;

   “business trust” and “trustee-manager” have the meanings given
      by section 2 of the Business Trusts Act 2004;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “competent authority” means the competent authority appointed
      under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 in respect of the
      development of land;

   “construction”, in relation to a railway, includes —

   (a) the reconstruction or realignment of the railway;

   (b) permanently improving the railway or otherwise
        bringing it to a higher standard,

   and any associated investigative and engineering studies, but
   does not include the planning, maintenance and management
   of the railway;

   [Deleted by Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
      Companies Act 1967;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “designated entity” means a designated equity interest holder or
      a designated operating entity;

                                                                          [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “designated equity interest holder” means an entity that has been
      designated as a designated equity interest holder under
      section 21E;

                     [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           6

“designated operating entity” means an entity that has been
   designated as a designated operating entity under
   section 21E;

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

“effective designation date”, in relation to a designated entity,
   means the date specified under section 21E(3) as the date on
   which the designation of that entity as a designated operating
   entity or designated equity interest holder (as the case may
   be) takes effect;

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

“entity” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation
   or other body of persons, whether corporate or unincorporate,
   and includes a business trust;

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

“essential transport service” means —

          (a) the service of operating or maintaining any rapid
               transit system; or

          (b) any service specified or described in the Schedule
               which is necessary —

          (i) for the continuity of; or

          (ii) for supporting,

        (b) the operation of any rapid transit system;

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

“land” includes and may, where the context so requires, have
   any one or more of the following meanings separately:

          (a) land of any tenure and so much of the airspace above
               the surface as may be reasonably used or enjoyed by
               any owner thereof, and so much of the subterranean
               space below the surface as is reasonably necessary
               for the use and enjoyment of the land, whether or not
               held apart from the surface;

          (b) the whole or part of any building or other erection or
               fixture on land;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
7  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

   (c) where an undivided share of a leasehold interest in
       land has appurtenant to it rights to the exclusive use
       and occupation of a building or part thereof on such
       land, such share in the land and all rights appurtenant
       thereto;

   (d) any other estate, right, share or interest in land;

   “licensee” means a company which is licensed under this Act to
      operate any rapid transit system;

   “maintenance” includes the detection and rectification of any
      faults;

   “outsourced enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision of
      this Act or regulations made under this Act, means an
      individual who —

   (a) is appointed under section 11 of the Land Transport
        Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

   (b) is authorised by or under that Act to exercise any
        powers under any provision of this Act or regulations
        made under this Act, as the case may be; and

   (c) is acting within that authorisation;

   “railway” means a network or system of fixed horizontal rails,
      tracks, grooves or other guide-ways on, under or above the
      ground along which a train moves or runs, and includes all
      tunnels, viaducts, bridges, crossings, stabling yards, depots,
      stations and other infrastructures constructed or intended to
      be constructed for any railway and any extensions thereto;

   “railway area” means the land delineated as such in plans and
      maps prepared under section 3(1) or (3);

   “railway commuter facility” means —

   (a) a pedestrian facility (such as ramps, overhead
        bridges, footpaths, escalators, stairs and lifts) for or
        connected or facilitating access to the railway
        comprised in any rapid transit system;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           8

          (b) a bicycle parking facility or vehicle set down facility
               for intending passengers of the railway comprised in
               any rapid transit system; or

          (c) any other similar structure or facility that integrates a
              rapid transit system with developments surrounding
              the rapid transit system by facilitating better access
              for passengers to residences, employment, markets,
              services and recreation;

“railway premises” means any area, space or building owned or
   occupied by the Authority which is designed, equipped or set
   apart for the carriage of passengers by train or for affording
   facilities incidental to the carriage of passengers by train (but
   not any railway commuter facility unless expressly included)
   and includes any train on such premises;

“rapid transit system” means any railway line, or a combination
   of 2 or more railway lines, and any part thereof comprised in
   that line or those lines set up or intended to be set up under
   this Act to meet the transport requirements of the public and
   includes the Mass Rapid Transit system set up under the
   repealed Act;

“repealed Act” means the repealed Mass Rapid Transit
   Corporation Act (Cap. 172, 1988 Revised Edition);

“train” includes a carriage, tram, car or other vehicle for the
   carriage of passengers on a railway.

                                                                 [21/2010; 9/2014; 11/2015; 38/2018]
                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                    PART 2

   PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION OF RAPID TRANSIT
                                  SYSTEMS

Preparation and promulgation of plans and maps

 3.—(1) The Authority must, with the approval of the competent
authority, cause plans and maps to be prepared in such detail and with
such markings and endorsements thereon as are sufficient to delineate

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
9  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

the railway area, being that area within which land may be acquired or
rights in, under or over land may be exercised by the Authority under
this Act for the purposes of and incidental to any railway.

 (2) A copy of every plan and map prepared for the purposes of
subsection (1) and signed by an authorised officer of the Authority
must be —

   (a) deposited with the competent authority; and

   (b) available for inspection by the public free of charge at the
        office of the Authority, during the hours when that office is
        normally open to the public.

 (3) Any plan or map prepared for the purposes of subsection (1) and
any marking or endorsement on any such plan or map may be
amended and any plan or map may be replaced by a substitute plan or
map, but the Authority must as soon as possible cause to be likewise
amended, or replaced with the substitute plan or map, every copy
mentioned in subsection (2) and certify the amendment or
substitution in any manner that the Authority thinks sufficient.

 (4) The Authority must, within 21 days of the deposit of a copy of a
plan or map with the competent authority or of any amendment to that
copy or the deposit of a substitute plan or map, cause a notice of such
deposit or amendment to be published in the Gazette containing —

   (a) a general description of the plan or map or of the nature and
        extent of the amendment or substitution; and

   (b) particulars of the places and times at which a copy of the
        plan or map, or details of the amendment or a copy of the
        substitute plan or map may be inspected by the public in
        conformity with subsection (2).

 (5) No person has a right of objection to the delineation of land in
any plan or map prepared for the purposes of subsection (1) or to any
amendment thereto or substitute plan or map prepared under
subsection (3), and the fact that land is therein delineated as being
within the railway area is for all purposes conclusive evidence that the
land may be required to be acquired or that rights in, under or over the
land may need to be exercised by the Authority for the purposes of
and incidental to any railway.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           10

Power to enter State land to lay and operate railway

 4.—(1) For the purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating
any railway, the Authority or any person authorised by the Authority
may —

(a) at any reasonable time, enter upon any State land within or
     adjoining the railway area; and

       (b) subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Lands, lay,
            construct and operate the railway on, under or over the
            State land and do all things as are reasonably necessary for
            the laying, construction, maintenance and operation of the
            railway.

                                                                                                 [9/2014; 21/2018]

 (2) In addition to subsection (1), the Authority may, at any
reasonable time, enter upon any State land that is within or
adjoining any railway area, and do all things as are reasonably
necessary for the construction and maintenance of railway commuter
facilities on, under or over that land.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (3) To avoid doubt, nothing in subsection (2) derogates from any
power of the Authority to construct and maintain any street, road
structure or road related facility under the Street Works Act 1995.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

Power to enter private land to lay railway

 5.—(1) The Authority or any person authorised by the Authority
has the right to enter upon and take possession of any land or part
thereof not being State land within or adjoining the railway area not
being land belonging to or acquired by the Authority and lay and
construct any railway on, under or over the land and do all things as
are reasonably necessary for the purpose of laying and constructing
the railway.

 (2) The Authority or a person authorised by the Authority must not
exercise the right conferred by subsection (1) unless the Authority has
given at least 2 months’ notice of its intention to exercise the right
conferred by that subsection upon every owner and occupier of the
land.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
11  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

(3) A notice mentioned in subsection (2) must —

    (a) give a brief description of the works which the Authority
         proposes to carry out on the land;

    (b) state the estimated period (if any) during which the
         Authority intends to occupy or take possession of the land;

    (c) describe the area or extent of the land needed for the
        carrying out of the works mentioned in paragraph (a); and

    (d) state that any person entitled to payment of any
         compensation under the Land Transport Authority of
         Singapore Act 1995 may serve a written claim on the
         Authority.

 (4) The ownership of anything is not altered by reason only that it is
placed in, under, over or affixed to any land in exercise of a right
conferred upon the Authority by this section.

 (5) Any person authorised under this section to enter upon any land
must, if so required by the owner or occupier, produce evidence of the
person’s authority before entering the land.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (6) Any person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders
or delays, an agent or employee of the Authority at any time in the
exercise of his or her authority shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (7) In this section, a reference to entry on land includes the digging
or boring of a tunnel under the land and the erection of any structure
over or under the land.

Creation of rights in, under or over land

 6.—(1) From the date of publication in the Gazette of a notice of
creation of a right under this section, the Authority or any person
authorised by the Authority may, at any reasonable time and for the
purposes of and incidental to the operation of a railway specified
therein, enter upon such land within the railway area as described in
the notice, not being State land or land belonging to or acquired by the
Authority, and exercise such permanent rights in, under or over such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           12

land or such rights of temporary occupation of the land as may be
specified in the notice.

(2) A notice of creation of a right under this section must —

(a) be made by the Authority;

(b) describe the right in, under or over land or the right of
     temporary occupation and the area of land subject to such
     right; and

          (c) state particulars of the places and times at which a copy of
              a plan of the area of land subject to such right may be
              inspected.

 (3) Any right described in a notice of creation of a right under this
section must be limited to a right conferring the rights and powers that
are necessary or convenient for the operation of any railway and for
all purposes connected with or incidental to such operation.

Owners who suffer substantial impairment in rights in land
may require their land to be acquired

 7.—(1) The owner of any land temporary possession of which is or
has been taken in accordance with section 5 may, by written notice
given to the Authority, request the Government to acquire under the
Land Acquisition Act 1966 —

       (a) the land; and

       (b) any other land of the owner related to the land in
            paragraph (a),

if the owner considers that the owner suffers substantial impairment
of the owner’s rights in the lands in paragraphs (a) and (b) because of
the taking of that temporary possession.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (2) If there is more than one owner of the land concerned, the notice
under this section must be given by all the owners.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (3) Any notice under this section is irrevocable once given to the
Authority.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
13  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (4) For the purposes of this section and section 7A, land (called the
A land) is related to other land temporary possession of which is or
has been taken in accordance with section 5 (called in this section and
section 7A the temporarily occupied land) if the A land is the
remainder of a parcel of land part of which is the temporarily
occupied land.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (5) In this section and section 7A —

    “owner”, in relation to any land, means —

    (a) a person who has the fee simple estate in the land;

    (b) a person who is the grantee or lessee under a State
         title for the land;

    (c) a person who has become entitled to exercise a power
        of sale of the land; or

    (d) a person in occupation of the land under a tenancy the
         term of which exceeds 7 years;

    “parcel of land” means the whole area of land that —

    (a) is the subject of a separate certificate of title
         registered under the Land Titles Act 1993; or

    (b) is a lot in a lawful division of land and capable of
         being separately held by any owner,

    and where a single building is erected on 2 or more such
    adjoining lands or lots mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b),
    includes the area comprised in those lands or lots, as the case
    may be.

                                                                                                 [12/2015]

Owner-initiated acquisition

 7A.—(1) Upon the Authority receiving a notice under section 7(1)
in relation to any temporarily occupied land, and any other land
related to the temporarily occupied land, the President is to proceed
under the Land Acquisition Act 1966 to acquire that land as if those
lands were the subject of a notice under section 49 of that Act.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           14

 (2) The provisions of sections 49 and 49A of the Land Acquisition
Act 1966 apply (so far as relevant) to any land that is the subject of a
notice under section 7(1) with the following exceptions,
modifications and adaptations:

(a) any reference in those sections to any land that is the
     subject of a notice under section 49(1) of the Land
     Acquisition Act 1966 must be read as a reference to the
     land that is the subject of a notice under section 7(1);

(b) any reference in those sections to land temporary
     possession of which is or has been taken under
     section 42 of the Land Acquisition Act 1966 must be
     read as a reference to any land temporary possession of
     which is or has been taken in accordance with section 5;

          (c) any reference in those sections to an owner of land must be
              read as a reference to an owner of land mentioned in
              section 7;

(d) any reference in section 49A of the Land Acquisition
     Act 1966 to a claim period for any land temporary
     possession of which is or has been taken in accordance
     with a direction under section 42 of the Land Acquisition
     Act 1966 must be read as a reference to one year starting
     from either of the following dates:

          (i) the date of the notice under section 5 relating to that
              land;

          (ii) the date of the expiry of the term of temporary
               possession in a notice under section 5 for the
               temporary occupation of the land, or the date the
               land is returned to the owner if earlier;

       (e) any other exceptions, modifications and adaptations that
            the differences between them necessarily require.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

 (3) All compensation for the acquisition under the Land
Acquisition Act 1966 of any land that is the subject of a notice
under section 7 is to be paid out of the funds of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [12/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
15              Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995               2020 Ed.

Power of entry

 8. Where in respect of any land notice has been published in the
Gazette in accordance with section 5 of the Land Acquisition
Act 1966 but the land has not vested in the State or notice has been
given by the Authority under section 5(2) of its intention to lay and
construct any railway on, over or under any land, the Authority, or
any person acting under its authority, may after giving at least
14 days’ notice in writing to the owner or occupier enter upon that
land and any adjoining land within the railway area at all reasonable
times for the purpose of —

    (a) surveying and taking levels of the firstmentioned land;

    (b) setting out the line of any works;

    (c) digging or boring into the soil for the purpose of
        determining whether the soil is suitable for laying the
        railway on, over or under the land; or

    (d) inspecting any object or structure mentioned in section 11.

Power to enter land for inspection and survey, etc.

 9.—(1) The Authority, or any person acting under its authority, may
enter any land or building situated wholly or partly within the railway
area or wholly or partly within 150 metres thereof in order to carry
out —

       (a) any inspection or survey which is reasonably necessary to
            ascertain the condition of the land or building prior to or
            during the construction of any railway and to carry out all
            reasonably necessary work of a preventive or remedial
            nature; and

       (b) any inspection or maintenance of the railway which has
            been laid by the Authority on, under or over the land or
            building and to carry out any work and do all things
            necessary for the purpose of maintaining the railway
            causing as little damage as possible and paying
            compensation to any person affected for any damage that
            may be caused.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           16

 (2) A person must not, for the purposes of subsection (1), enter any
land or building which is occupied without giving the owner and the
occupier at least 7 days’ notice of the person’s intention to do so
unless —

(a) the Authority is of the opinion that an emergency exists
     which necessitates immediate entry; or

(b) the entry is required only for the purpose of an inspection
     or a survey.

(3) A notice of entry referred to in subsection (2) —

(a) must describe the purpose of the entry and the nature of any
     work to be carried out; and

(b) is deemed to be given to and received by an owner or
     occupier if a written notice is affixed to a conspicuous part
     of the land or building to be entered.

 (4) In subsection (1), “work of a preventive or remedial nature”
means the underpinning or strengthening of any land or building and
other work thereon intended to render it reasonably safe or to repair or
detect damage caused in the course of the construction or operation of
any railway.

 (5) The decision of the Authority that any work is of a preventive or
remedial nature or that such work or any inspection or survey is
reasonably necessary is final.

(6) The Authority, or any person acting under its authority, may —

(a) as the occasion requires, enter and reinspect and re‑survey
     any land or building in respect of which any of the powers
     contained in subsection (1) have been exercised; and

(b) in relation to that land or building, exercise those powers as
     often as the occasion requires.

 (7) Any person authorised under this section to enter upon any land
or building must, if so required by the owner or occupier, produce
evidence of the person’s authority before so entering it.

 (8) Any person who refuses to give access to, or obstructs, hinders
or delays, an agent or employee of the Authority at any time in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
17  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

exercise of his or her authority shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

Utility services

 10.—(1) The Authority may serve notice on the owner or supplier
of any gas, electricity, water, telecommunication, sewerage or
drainage services to —

       (a) alter the course or position of any wire, line, cable, pipe,
            tube, casing, duct, post, structure or other apparatus which
            belongs to or is maintained by that owner or supplier; and

       (b) repair any street surface thereby disturbed,

if in the opinion of the Authority the alteration is required for the
purposes of the construction, operation, maintenance or improvement
of any railway.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must —

       (a) specify the apparatus or structure to which the notice
            applies and set out the requirements of the Authority as to
            the alteration of its course or position and the repair of any
            street surface;

       (b) stipulate the period within which such work must be
            carried out;

       (c) be served upon the owner or supplier at least one month
            before the commencement of that period; and

       (d) state that any person entitled to compensation under this
            Act may serve a written claim upon the Authority.

Removal of projections or obstructions

 11.—(1) The Authority may give notice to the owner of any land or
building in the railway area requiring the owner to remove any object
or structure described in the notice which is erected on or attached to,
or projects from, the land or building if in the opinion of the Authority
the removal of the object or structure is required for the purposes of
the construction of any railway.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995             18

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) may be given to the owner of the
land or building and is deemed to have been received by the owner if
it is affixed to some conspicuous part of the land or building to or
from which the object or structure is erected or attached or projects
from.

(3) A notice under subsection (1) must —

(a) describe the object or structure to be removed;

(b) stipulate the period within which the work of removal must
     be carried out;

          (c) be given to the owner of the land or building not later than
              28 days before the commencement of that period; and

(d) state that any person entitled to compensation under the
     Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 may
     serve a written claim upon the Authority.

 (4) If the owner of the land or building does not comply with a
notice given to the owner under subsection (1), any person authorised
in that behalf by the Authority may enter the land or building,
together with any other persons that the person authorised thinks
necessary, and remove the object or structure described in the notice
or cause it to be removed by those other persons.

                                    PART 3
           OPERATION OF RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS
General considerations
 11A. In the exercise of its functions and powers under this Part, the
Authority must have regard to the need for —
       (a) an integrated public transport system in Singapore,
            including the integration of the rapid transit systems with
            other modes of transport and surrounding developments;
       (b) reliable, seamless and convenient travel within the public
            transport system and enhanced passenger services;
       (c) network-wide efficient and coordinated movements of
            passengers on rapid transit systems;

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
19  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (d) sustainability, adequacy and optimisation of capacity
         across the network of rapid transit systems; and

    (e) safety and security of life and property on the rapid transit
        systems.

                                                                                                    [21/2010]

Operating rapid transit system without licence

 12.—(1) Only the Authority or a person licensed by the Authority
may operate any rapid transit system.

 (2) Any person who operates any rapid transit system in
contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000
for every day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Licence to operate rapid transit system

 13.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority may
grant to any company a licence to operate any rapid transit system
specified therein for such period as may be specified in the licence.

 (2) Every licensee is authorised under this Act to operate any rapid
transit system for the period specified in the licence unless the licence
is earlier revoked, cancelled or suspended under the provisions of this
Act.

 (3) The fee for a licence to operate any rapid transit system is such
amount as may be prescribed.

Licence charge

 13A.—(1) In addition to the licence fee payable under
section 13(3), a charge is payable by every person who is granted a
licence on or after 13 September 2010, which is the amount
determined by the Authority and specified in the licence, after
taking into account —

       (a) the relative viability of operating and maintaining that
            rapid transit system in the network of rapid transit systems;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           20

(b) the long-term operational and maintenance needs of the
     railway network and the long‑term sustainability of each
     rapid transit system comprised in the network of rapid
     transit systems; and

       (c) the benefits and burdens that the operation and
            maintenance of that rapid transit system is likely to bring
            to and impose on the network of rapid transit systems.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (2) A person who is to be granted a licence on or after 13 September
2010 must ordinarily be selected by the Authority from among those
who submit tenders in response to an invitation to tender under this
section for the right to operate (or to secure that a wholly‑owned
subsidiary thereof operates) a rapid transit system under that licence.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (3) Any such invitation to tender must specify that an applicant who
tenders for a licence must state the amount (by reference to quantity
or method or otherwise) that the applicant (or a wholly‑owned
subsidiary thereof) is willing to pay for the grant of a licence (called
in this Part a cash‑bid), in addition to the charge determined under
subsection (1); and that cash‑bid is payable, together with the charge
determined under subsection (1), by the applicant or its
wholly‑owned subsidiary if the applicant or its wholly‑owned
subsidiary (as the case may be) is granted a licence.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

Matters to be considered by Authority in granting licence

 14. In exercising its discretion to grant a licence to operate any
rapid transit system, the Authority must have regard to the financial
standing of the applicant and its ability to maintain an adequate,
satisfactory, safe and efficient service.

Conditions of licence

 15.—(1) In granting a licence to operate any rapid transit system,
the Authority may impose any conditions that it thinks fit, and may, in
particular, impose conditions relating to —

       (a) the extent, hours and general level of services;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
21  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) the security and safety of persons using or engaged in work
         on the rapid transit system;

    (c) the maintenance and operation of the railway relating to the
        rapid transit system;

    (d) the deposit of security or bank guarantee to the satisfaction
         of the Authority for the due performance by the licensee of
         all or any obligations imposed upon it by the licence or by
         this Act;

    (e) the control and restriction, directly or indirectly, on the
        creation, holding or disposal of shares in the licensee or its
        shareholders, or of interests in the undertaking of the
        licensee or any part thereof;

    (f) the restriction on the carrying on by the licensee of any
        trade or business not related to the activity which the
        licensee is authorised by its licence to carry on; and

       (g) the standards of performance to be complied by the
            licensee in the maintenance or operation of the rapid transit
            system or the provision of rapid transit system services.

                                                                                                 [21/2010; 9/2014]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), conditions included in a licence
to operate a rapid transit system —

    (a) may require the licensee to enter into any agreement with
         any person for such purposes as may be specified in the
         conditions of the licence, such as but not limited to any
         matter which is dealt with (whether in the same or different
         manner) by an access contract;

    (b) may include provision for determining the terms on which
         such agreements are to be entered into, which may be such
         conditions as may be agreed to by the licensee and such
         other persons or, in default of agreement, as may be
         determined by the Authority;

    (c) may include conditions which must be complied with
        before the licence can be transferred or assigned;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           22

(d) may require the licensee —

          (i) to comply with any requirements from time to time
              imposed by the Authority (or a person nominated by
              the Authority for this purpose) with respect to the
              matters concerning the operation or maintenance of
              the rapid transit system that are specified, or are of a
              description specified, in the licence;

          (ii) except insofar as the Authority (or a person
               nominated by the Authority for this purpose)
               consents to the licensee doing or not doing them,
               to do, or not to do, the things that are specified, or are
               of a description specified, in the licence;

          (iii) to refer for determination by a person nominated by
                the Authority for this purpose the questions arising
                under the licence that are specified, or are of a
                description specified, in the licence; or

          (iv) to furnish to the Authority (or a person nominated by
               the Authority for this purpose) any documents or
               other information that the Authority may require for
               the purpose of exercising any functions conferred or
               imposed on the Authority or person under or by
               virtue of the licence or this Act;

          (e) may contain provision for the conditions to cease to have
              effect or be modified at the times, in the manner and in the
              circumstances specified in or determined by or under the
              conditions; and any provision included by virtue of this
              paragraph in a licence has effect in addition to section 16
              with respect to the modification of the conditions of a
              licence;

          (f) may require the licensee —

          (i) to operate or maintain any extension of the rapid
              transit system or part thereof; or

          (ii) to maintain any railway commuter facility within the
               vicinity of a station that is part of the rapid transit
               system, and any other premises, facilities and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
23  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    structures used as, or for the purposes of, or
    otherwise reasonably necessary for or incidental to
    operating the rapid transit system;

    (g) may require the licensee to acquire from such person as
         may be specified in the licence, and to use, such property or
         rights as may be so specified, or to undertake such
         liabilities as may be so specified;

    (h) may require the licensee to prepare itself to deal with any
         plague or epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster
         (natural or otherwise) or any public emergency; and

      (i) may require the licensee to provide travel information
           systems and directional signs for the purpose of ensuring
           integration of the rapid transit system with transport
           services and facilities and developments surrounding the
           rapid transit systems operated by the licensee so as to
           enhance railway passenger services.

                                                                                               [21/2010; 9/2014]

(3) In this section —

    “access contract” means —

    (a) a contract under which a person, and so far as may be
         appropriate, an associate of that person, obtains
         permission from a facility owner to use the facility
         owner’s railway facility; or

    (b) a contract conferring an option to require a facility
         owner to secure that a person, and so far as may be
         appropriate, an associate of that person, obtains
         permission from the facility owner to use the
         facility owner’s railway facility;

    “associate”, in relation to any person, includes —

    (a) any employee, agent or independent contractor of the
         person;

    (b) any passenger of the person;

    (c) any person engaged in the provision of goods or
        services to or for the person; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           24

          (d) any other person who deals or has business with the
               person;

“facility owner” means any person (other than the Authority or
   the Government) —

          (a) who has an estate or interest in, or right over, any
               track, station or depot of a rapid transit system; and

          (b) whose permission to use that track, station or depot is
               needed by another before that other may use it;

“railway facility” means a track, station or depot of a rapid
   transit system.

                                                                                                   [21/2010]

Modification of terms and conditions of licence

 16.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may add to, delete or
modify the terms or conditions of a licence granted under section 13.

 (2) Before making any addition, deletion or modification to the
terms or conditions of a licence under subsection (1), the Authority
must give notice to the licensee —

       (a) stating that it proposes to make the addition, deletion or
            modification in the manner specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 28 days from the date of
            service of notice on the licensee) within which the licensee
            may make written representations to the Authority with
            respect to the proposed addition, deletion or modification.

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Authority must consider such representation
and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed addition, deletion or modification in
            the manner that it thinks fit having regard to the
            representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed addition, deletion or modification.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
25  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (4) Where the Authority rejects any written representation under
subsection (3)(a) or amends any proposed addition, deletion or
modification to the terms or conditions of a licence under
subsection (3)(b), the Authority must issue a direction in writing to
the licensee requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the
Authority, to give effect to the addition, deletion or modification
specified in the notice or as amended by the Authority, as the case
may be.

(5) The Authority must not enforce its direction —

    (a) during the period prescribed for the purposes of
         section 28(3); and

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    (b) while the appeal of the licensee is under consideration by
         the Minister.

 (6) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the time specified under subsection (2)(b) or if any written
representation made under that subsection is subsequently
withdrawn, the Authority may immediately carry out the addition,
deletion or modification to the terms or conditions of the licence as
specified in the notice given to the licensee under subsection (2).

Restrictions on acquisition of essential operating assets

 16A.—(1) A person must not acquire, on or after 13 September
2010, any essential operating asset of a rapid transit system, or an
interest in an essential operating asset of a rapid transit system
(whether or not the acquisition is by way of the enforcement of a loan
security) unless —

       (a) the person is a licensee authorised by licence to operate
            that rapid transit system; or

       (b) the Authority consents in writing to the acquisition.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (2) Any acquisition, or a purported acquisition, on or after
13 September 2010, of any essential operating asset of a rapid
transit system or part thereof, or an interest in an essential operating

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           26

asset of a rapid transit system or part thereof, in contravention of
subsection (1) is void.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (3) In this section, “essential operating asset”, in relation to any
rapid transit system, means any land, plant, equipment, machinery or
other property which —

(a) is used or intended to be used (and whether or not it is also
     used for other purposes) by the licensee authorised by a
     licence to operate that rapid transit system; and

(b) is designated by or under the licence to be an essential
     operating asset.

                                                                                                 [21/2010]

Restrictions on transfer, etc., and surrender of licences

 16B.—(1) Every licence is not capable of being transferred or
assigned unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

       (b) the Authority consents in writing to the transfer or
            assignment.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with such conditions as the Authority thinks fit to
impose, which may, subject to section 16, include conditions
modifying, or requiring or otherwise providing for the making of
modifications to, the conditions of the licence.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or a purported transfer or
assignment, of a licence is void —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
27  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

            subject to compliance with which the consent required by
            subsection (1) is given.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (4) Every licence is not capable of being surrendered without the
written consent of the Authority, and any surrender or purported
surrender of a licence is void if it is without such consent.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

Codes of practice

 17.—(1) The Authority may issue or approve and from time to time
modify codes of practice in connection with —

       (a) the maintenance or operation of rapid transit systems and
            any equipment relating thereto;

       (b) the provision of services for the carriage of passengers on a
            rapid transit system;

       (c) the conduct of licensees;

       (d) the security and safety of persons who use or who are
            engaged in any work on the rapid transit system; and

       (e) the measures necessary for licensees to deal with any
            plague or epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster
            (natural or otherwise) or other public emergency.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (2) Every licensee must comply with any code of practice issued or
approved by the Authority under subsection (1), except that if any
provision in any such code of practice is inconsistent with this Act,
that provision does not have effect to the extent of the inconsistency.

 (3) The Authority may, if the circumstances so warrant, exempt any
licensee from any provision in any code of practice, whether
unconditionally or subject to any conditions that the Authority
thinks fit to impose, and whether permanently or for such time as the
Authority may specify.

 (4) Any code of practice issued or approved by the Authority is
deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           28

Directions affecting licensees

 18.—(1) The Authority may give directions to be observed by
licensees for or in respect of the following matters:

(a) the extent, hours and general level of the services to be
     provided by licensees;

(b) the extension of the operating hours of the services
     provided by the licensees;

          (c) the maintenance and operation of the rapid transit system;

(d) the provision of travel information systems and directional
     signs for the purpose of ensuring integration of rapid transit
     systems with transport services and facilities and
     developments surrounding the respective rapid transit
     systems operated by licensees so as to enhance railway
     passenger services;

          (e) the security and safety of persons who use or who are
              engaged in any work on the rapid transit system; and

      (f) any other matters affecting the interests of the public in
           connection with the services provided by licensees.

                                                                                                         [21/2010]

(2) Any direction given under subsection (1) —

(a) may require the licensee concerned (according to the
     circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from doing,
     the things that are specified, or are of a description
     specified, in the direction;

(b) takes effect at the time, being the earliest practicable time,
     that is determined by or under that direction; and

          (c) may be revoked at any time by the Authority.

 (3) Before giving any direction to any licensee under
subsection (1), the Authority —

(a) must give notice to the licensee —

          (i) informing the licensee of the proposed direction and
              setting out its effect; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
29  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (ii) specifying the time within which representations or
         objections to the proposed direction may be made by
         the licensee in connection with the proposed
         direction,

    (a) unless the Authority, in respect of any particular direction,
         considers that it is not practicable or desirable that such
         notice be given; and

    (b) must consider any representations or objections which are
         duly made by the licensee under paragraph (a)(ii).

 (4) Every licensee must comply with every direction given to it by
the Authority under this section.

Appointment and removal of director, etc., of licensee

 18A.—(1) A licensee must not —

       (a) appoint or re‑appoint an individual as its chief executive
            officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
            directors; or

       (b) remove its chief executive officer or the chairperson of its
            board of directors or any of its directors,

unless the licensee has obtained the approval of the Authority to do
so.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (1A) The Authority may —

       (a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
            conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
            impose; and

       (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
            imposed.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) Where a licensee, in contravention of subsection (1), does any
of the following without the approval of the Authority:

       (a) appoints or re‑appoints an individual as its chief executive
            officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
            directors;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           30

(b) removes its chief executive officer or the chairperson of its
     board of directors or any of its directors,

the Authority may issue a direction to the licensee to do either of the
following, whichever being applicable, and the licensee must comply
with the direction:

          (c) to remove that individual from his or her appointment as
              the chief executive officer or a director or the chairperson
              of the board of directors of the licensee, as the case may be;

       (d) to reinstate the individual as the chief executive officer or a
            director or the chairperson of the board of directors of the
            licensee, as the case may be.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (3) Where at any time the Authority is satisfied that it is necessary
or desirable to act for the purpose of the proper administration of the
licensee’s business of operating a rapid transit system, the Authority
may issue a direction to the licensee to appoint an individual as an
additional director of the licensee, and the licensee must comply with
the direction.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (4) Before issuing any direction to any licensee under
subsection (2) or (3), the Authority must give notice to the licensee —

(a) informing the licensee of the proposed direction and
     setting out its effect; and

(b) specifying the time within which representations or
     objections to the proposed direction may be made by the
     licensee in connection with the proposed direction,

unless the Authority, in respect of any particular direction, considers
that it is not practicable or desirable that the notice be given.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (5) The Authority must consider any representations or objections
which are duly made by the licensee in connection with a proposed
direction following a notice under subsection (4).

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (6) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law and the provisions of the memorandum or articles of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
31  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

association, or other constitution, of the licensee, and nothing in
section 152 of the Companies Act 1967 prevents the Authority from
exercising any power under this section.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (7) Nothing in subsections (2) to (6) is to be taken as depriving an
individual who is removed under any of those provisions of
compensation or damages payable to him or her in respect of the
termination of his or her appointment as a chief executive officer,
director or chairperson of the board of directors.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (7A) This section does not apply to or in relation to any licensee
that has been designated as a designated operating entity, starting on
its effective designation date and while it remains so designated.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (8) In this section —

    “chief executive officer”, in relation to a licensee, means any
       individual (however described by name) who —

    (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
         arrangement with, the licensee; and

    (b) is principally responsible for the management and
         conduct of any type of business of the licensee in
         Singapore,

    and includes any individual for the time being performing all
    or any of the functions or duties of the chief executive officer;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967.

                                                             [9/2014]

Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.

 19.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), if any licensee —

       (a) contravenes or fails to comply with, or fails to secure the
            compliance by its employees, agents or contractors with,
            any of the conditions of its licence to operate any rapid
            transit system or with any provision of this Act which is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           32

          applicable to the licensee and for which no criminal
          penalty is prescribed for a contravention of the provision;

(b) is convicted of any offence under this Act;

          (c) in the opinion of the Authority, fails or is likely to fail to
              provide and maintain an adequate, safe and satisfactory
              service;

(d) fails to comply with any provision of any code of practice
     issued or approved by the Authority under section 17;

          (e) fails to comply with any direction given by the Authority
              under section 18 or 18A;

(ea) fails to comply with any condition of approval under
      section 18A;

                                                                      [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

  (f) fails to comply with any provisional order confirmed under
      section 19A;

(g) goes into compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than
     for the purpose of reconstruction or amalgamation; or

(h) makes any assignment to, or composition with, its
     creditors,

the Authority may, by written notice and without any compensation,
do all or any of the following:

          (i) suspend or cancel the licence of the licensee;

          (j) forfeit the whole or any part of any security deposited with
              the Authority by the licensee or by its bank pursuant to a
              bank guarantee but not in excess of the maximum amount
              specified in subsection (2) if the licence is not cancelled;

          (k) require the licensee to pay, within a specified period, a
              financial penalty of an amount that the Authority thinks fit,
              which in any case must not exceed the maximum amount
              specified in subsection (2).

                                                                                    [21/2010; 9/2014; 31/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
33  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of requiring a licensee of any rapid transit
system to pay a financial penalty under subsection (1)(k), the
maximum amount means the higher of the following amounts:

    (a) $1 million;

    (b) 10% of the licensee’s annual fare revenue that is
         received —

    (i) during the licensee’s last‑completed financial year as
        ascertained from the licensee’s latest audited
        accounts; and

              (ii) from the operation of the rapid transit system or, if
                   more than one rapid transit system is the subject of
                   the licensee’s licence, of each rapid transit system.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

 (3) A financial penalty cannot be imposed on a licensee if the sole
ground for proceeding under subsection (1) is that, in the opinion of
the Authority, the licensee is likely to fail to provide and maintain an
adequate, safe and satisfactory service.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) A financial penalty imposed under subsection (1)(k) on any
licensee must be recovered and collected by the Authority for the
purposes of the Public Transport Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) The whole or part of any financial penalty recovered and
collected under subsection (4) from a licensee, and any interest on
any financial penalty in arrears, must be paid into the Public
Transport Fund established under the Public Transport Council
Act 1987.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (6) In this section, “annual fare revenue”, in relation to a licensee of
a rapid transit system, means the total charges received by the
licensee from passengers for travel services provided on any railway
comprised in that rapid transit system, less any goods and services tax
paid by, the value of any rebate supplied to, and any connection
commission paid by, passengers in connection with those travel
services.

                                                                                                             [9/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           34

Provisional orders for securing compliance

 19A.—(1) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), where it appears to
the Authority that —

(a) a licensee is contravening, or is likely to contravene, any
     condition of its licence; or

(b) a licensee has failed to secure the compliance by its
     employees, agents or contractors with any condition of its
     licence,

and that it is appropriate or requisite that a provisional order be made
under this section, the Authority may, instead of taking any decision
under section 19, by provisional order make such provision as
appears to it requisite for securing compliance with that condition.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (2) A provisional order —

(a) must require the licensee to whom it relates (according to
     the circumstances of the case) to do, or not to do, the things
     that are specified, or are of a description specified, in the
     provisional order;

(b) takes effect at the time, being the earliest practicable time,
     that is determined by or under the provisional order; and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (3) In determining whether it is appropriate or requisite that a
provisional order be made, the Authority must have regard, in
particular, to the extent to which any person is likely to sustain loss or
damage in consequence of anything which, in contravention of any
condition of a licence, is likely to be done, or omitted to be done,
before a decision under section 19 may be made.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (4) Subject to subsections (5), (6) and (7), the Authority must, by
written notice, confirm a provisional order, with or without
modifications, if —

(a) the Authority is satisfied that the licensee to whom the
     order relates is contravening, or is likely to contravene any
     condition of its licence, or has failed to secure the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
35  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    compliance by its employees, agents or contractors with
    any condition of its licence; and

       (b) the provision made by the order (with any modifications) is
            requisite for the purpose of securing compliance with that
            condition.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (5) The Authority must not make or confirm a provisional order in
relation to a licensee if it is satisfied —

    (a) that the duties imposed on the Authority under this Act or
         the Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995
         preclude the making of such an order;

    (b) that the licensee has agreed to take, and is taking, all steps
         that appear to the Authority for the time being to be
         appropriate for the licensee to take for the purpose of
         securing or facilitating compliance with the condition in
         question; or

       (c) that the contraventions were, or the apprehended
            contraventions are, of a trivial nature.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (6) Before the Authority makes or confirms a provisional order, the
Authority must give notice to the licensee concerned —

    (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make or confirm the
         provisional order and setting out its effect;

    (b) setting out —

    (i) the relevant condition of the licence for the purpose
        of securing compliance with which the provisional
        order is to be made or confirmed;

    (ii) the acts or omissions which, in the Authority’s
         opinion, constitute or would constitute
         contraventions of that condition; and

    (iii) the other facts which, in the Authority’s opinion,
          justify the making or confirmation of the provisional
          order; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.     Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                        36

          (c) specifying the period (being at least 28 days from the date
              of service of the notice) within which representations or
              objections with respect to the proposed provisional order
              or proposed confirmation may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made and not withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (7) The Authority must not confirm a provisional order with
modifications except —

(a) with the consent of the licensee to whom the provisional
     order relates; or

(b) after —

          (i) serving on that licensee notice under subsection (6)
              of the proposal to confirm the provisional order with
              modifications and in that notice, specifying the
              period (being at least 28 days from the date of
              service of the notice) within which representations or
              objections with respect to the proposed
              modifications may be made; and

              (ii) considering any representations or objections which
                   are duly made and not withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (8) In this section, “provisional order” means an order under this
section which, if not previously confirmed in accordance with
subsection (5), will cease to have effect at the end of the period (not
exceeding 3 months) determined by or under the order.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

Outstanding fees, charges, penalties, etc.

 19B.—(1) If —

       (a) any fee imposed under section 13 in respect of a licence or
            any part thereof is not paid in full by the due date for
            payment;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
37  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) any charge and cash-bid (if any) imposed under
         section 13A in respect of a licence or any part thereof is
         not paid in full by the due date for payment; or

    (c) any financial penalty imposed under section 19(1)(k) in
        respect of a licensee or any part thereof is not paid in full by
        the due date for payment,

interest at the prescribed rate is payable by the licensee concerned on
the outstanding amount of any such fee, charge, cash‑bid or financial
penalty.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (2) The Authority may recover as a debt in a court of competent
jurisdiction any of the following amounts that has become due and
payable but has not been paid:

    (a) any fee imposed under section 13 in respect of a licence or
         any part thereof;

    (b) any charge and cash-bid (if any) imposed under
         section 13A in respect of a licence or any part thereof;

    (c) any financial penalty imposed under section 19(1)(k) in
        respect of a licensee or any part thereof;

    (d) any interest imposed under subsection (1) or any part
         thereof,

and the liability of the licensee concerned to pay is not affected by its
licence ceasing (for any reason) to be in force.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of licensees

 20.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) a licensee cannot be wound up without the consent of the
            Authority;

       (b) a person must not make an application under section 210 of
            the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
            licensee without the consent of the Authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           38

          (c) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
              Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
              be made in relation to a licensee without the consent of the
              Authority;

(d) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
     appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of a
     licensee without the consent of the Authority;

          (e) a person must not take any step to enforce any security over
              the property of a licensee unless that person has served 14
              days’ notice in writing of that person’s intention to take
              that step on the Authority; and

          (f) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
              judgment or order of court against a licensee unless that
              person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that
              person’s intention to take that step on the Authority.

(2) The Authority must be a party to —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to a licensee;

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
     management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
     licensee; and

          (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
              Dissolution Act 2018 for the winding up of the affairs of a
              licensee.

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the Authority in those proceedings.

 (4) This section does not apply to or in relation to any licensee that
has been designated as a designated operating entity, starting on its
effective designation date and while it remains so designated.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
39  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Authority to operate rapid transit system

 21. If there is for any reason no licensee to operate any rapid transit
system, it is the duty of the Authority to operate that rapid transit
system having regard to the reasonable requirements of the land
transport system in Singapore or the relevant part thereof.

                                   PART 3A

               CONTROL OF DESIGNATED ENTITIES

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                         Division 1 — Preliminary

Extraterritorial application of this Part

 21A.—(1) Except where otherwise expressly provided, this Part
applies to, and in relation to —

       (a) all individuals, whether resident in Singapore or not and
            whether citizens of Singapore or not; and

       (b) all bodies corporate or unincorporate, whether
            incorporated, formed, established, or carrying on
            business in Singapore or not.

 (2) Every person who, outside Singapore, commits an act or
omission that, if committed in Singapore, would constitute an offence
under this Part, is deemed to commit the act or omission in Singapore
and may be proceeded against, charged, tried and punished
accordingly.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Interpretation of this Part

 21B.—(1) In this Part —

      “5% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
         person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

              (a) holds 5% or more, but less than 25%, of the total
                   equity interests in that designated entity; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           40

          (b) is in a position to control 5% or more, but less than
               25%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

“25% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
   person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

          (a) holds 25% or more, but less than 50%, of the total
               equity interests in that designated entity; or

          (b) is in a position to control 25% or more, but less than
               50%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

“50% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
   person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

          (a) holds 50% or more, but less than 75%, of the total
               equity interests in that designated entity; or

          (b) is in a position to control 50% or more, but less than
               75%, of the voting power in that designated entity;

“75% controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means a
   person who, alone or together with that person’s associates —

          (a) holds 75% or more of the total equity interests in that
               designated entity; or

          (b) is in a position to control 75% or more of the voting
               power in that designated entity;

“acquisition” includes an agreement to acquire, but does not
   include —

          (a) an acquisition by will or by operation of law; or

          (b) an acquisition by way of enforcement of a loan
               security;

“arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
   arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
   express or implied;

“chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated entity or the
   trustee-manager of a designated entity, means an individual
   (by whatever name called) who —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
41  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
         arrangement with, the designated entity or trustee-
         manager, as the case may be; and

    (b) is principally responsible for the management and
         conduct of the business of the designated entity or
         trustee-manager, as the case may be,

    and includes any individual for the time being performing all
    or any of the functions of a chief executive officer;

    “control” includes control as a result of, or by means of, any
       trust, agreement, arrangement, understanding or practice,
       whether or not having legal or equitable force and whether or
       not based on legal or equitable rights;

    “decrease”, in relation to the holding of equity interests, includes
       a decrease to a point of nil;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “equity interest” —

    (a) in relation to a corporation — means a voting share in
         that corporation;

    (b) in relation to an entity other than a corporation —
         means any right or interest, whether legal or
         equitable, in that entity (by whatever name called)
         which gives the holder of that right or interest voting
         power in that entity; and

    (c) in relation to a business trust — means a unit in that
        business trust;

    “increase”, in relation to the holding of equity interests, includes
       an increase from a starting point of nil;

    “indirect controller”, in relation to a designated entity, means
       any person, whether acting alone or together with any other
       person, and whether with or without holding equity interests
       or controlling the voting power in the designated entity —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           42

          (a) whose directions, instructions or wishes —

          (i) the directors or other officers of the designated
              entity; or

          (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust),

          (a) is accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal
               or informal, to act in accordance with; or

          (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
               designated entity,

          but does not include —

          (c) any person who is —

          (i) a director or other officer of the designated
              entity; or

          (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust); or

          (d) any person whose directions, instructions or
               wishes —

          (i) the directors or other officers of the designated
              entity; or

          (ii) the trustee-manager (in the case of a designated
               entity that is a business trust),

          (d) is accustomed to act in accordance with by reason
               only that the acting is on advice given by the person
               in that person’s professional capacity;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“liquidator” includes the Official Receiver when acting as the
   liquidator of a corporation;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, includes —

          (a) a director or secretary of, or a person employed in an
               executive capacity by, the corporation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
43  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) any receiver or manager, or any receiver and
         manager, of any part of the undertaking of the
         corporation, appointed under a power contained in
         any instrument or by the General Division of the
         High Court or by creditors;

    (c) any liquidator of the corporation appointed in a
        voluntary winding up or by the General Division of
        the High Court or by creditors; and

    (d) any judicial manager of the corporation appointed
         under Part 7 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018;

    “Official Receiver” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018;

    “related corporation”, in relation to a corporation, means another
       corporation that is deemed under section 21D(2) to be related
       to that corporation;

    “share”, in relation to a corporation, means a share in the share
       capital of the corporation and includes stock into which all or
       any of the share capital of the corporation has been
       converted;

    “treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
       Act 2004;

    “unitholder” means a person who holds units in a business trust;

    “unregistered company” has the meaning given by
       section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
       Dissolution Act 2018;

    “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967 but does not include a treasury share.

 (2) A reference in this Part to the control of a percentage of the
voting power in a designated entity is to the control, whether direct or
indirect, of that percentage of the total number of votes that might be
cast in —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           44

(a) a general meeting of the designated entity; or

(b) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust — a
     general meeting of the unitholders of the business trust.

 (3) In ascertaining a person’s control of the percentage of the total
number of votes that might be cast at a general meeting mentioned in
subsection (2), the number of votes that the person is entitled to cast at
the meeting by reason of having been appointed a proxy or
representative to vote at the meeting is to be disregarded.

(4) In this Part —

(a) a reference to the chairperson of a board of directors
     includes an individual (by whatever name called) acting in
     that capacity;

(b) a reference to the business or operations of an entity that is
     a business trust is to the business or operations (as the case
     may be) carried on by the trustee-manager of the business
     trust on behalf of the business trust; and

          (c) a reference to a condition imposed by the Authority
              includes a condition added or varied by the Authority.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

What holding an equity interest means

 21C.—(1) In this Part, a person holds an equity interest if the
person —

       (a) has or is deemed to have an equity interest in accordance
            with subsections (2) to (8); or

       (b) otherwise has a legal or equitable interest in that equity
            interest,

except for any interest prescribed under section 45 as an interest that
is to be disregarded.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person has an equity interest if the
person has authority (whether formal or informal, or express or
implied) to dispose of, or to exercise control over the disposal of, that
equity interest.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
45  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (3) It is immaterial that the authority of a person to dispose of, or to
exercise control over the disposal of, the equity interest mentioned in
subsection (2) is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint or
restriction.

 (4) It is immaterial, for the purposes of determining whether a
person has an equity interest, that the interest cannot be related to a
particular share, an interest or a right that gives its holder voting
power, or a unit of a business trust, as the case may be.

(5) A person is deemed to have an equity interest if —

    (a) any property held in trust consists of or includes the equity
         interest; and

    (b) the person knows, or has reasonable grounds for believing,
         that the person has an interest under that trust.

 (6) A person is also deemed to have an equity interest if that
person —

    (a) has entered into a contract to purchase the equity interest;

    (b) has a right, otherwise than by reason of having an interest
         under a trust, to have the equity interest transferred to (or to
         the order of) that person, whether the right is exercisable
         presently or in the future and whether on the fulfilment of a
         condition or not;

    (c) has the right to acquire the equity interest under an option,
        whether the right is exercisable presently or in the future
        and whether on the fulfilment of a condition or not; or

    (d) is entitled (otherwise than by reason of having been
         appointed a proxy or representative) to vote at —

    (i) a general meeting of the designated entity; or

    (ii) in the case of a designated entity that is a business
         trust — a general meeting of the unitholders of the
         business trust,

    (d) to exercise or control the exercise of a right attached to the
         equity interest, not being an equity interest in which that
         person has a legal or equitable interest.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           46

 (7) A person is not to be deemed as not having an equity interest by
reason only that the person has the equity interest jointly with another
person.

(8) An equity interest is not to be disregarded by reason only of —

(a) its remoteness;

(b) the manner in which it arose; or

          (c) the fact that the exercise of a right conferred by the equity
              interest is, or is capable of being made, subject to restraint
              or restriction.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Meanings of “associate”, “related corporation”, “subsidiary”
and “holding company”

 21D.—(1) In this Part, a person (A) is an associate of another person
(B) if —

       (a) A is the spouse, or a parent, step-parent or remoter lineal
            ancestor, or a son, stepson, daughter, stepdaughter or
            remoter issue, or a brother or sister, of B;

       (b) A is a partner of B in a partnership or limited liability
            partnership;

       (c) A is a corporation of which B is an officer;

       (d) B is a corporation of which A is an officer;

       (e) A and B are officers of the same corporation;

        (f) A is an employee of B;

       (g) B is an employee of A;

       (h) A and B are employees of the same employer;

        (i) A is the trustee of a discretionary trust where B (or another
            person who is an associate of B by virtue of any paragraph,
            except this paragraph and paragraphs (j) and (r)) benefits,
            or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
            appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
            either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
47  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (j) B is the trustee of a discretionary trust where A (or another
        person who is an associate of A by virtue of any paragraph,
        except this paragraph and paragraphs (i) and (r)) benefits,
        or is capable (whether by exercise of a power of
        appointment or otherwise) of benefitting, under the trust,
        either directly or through interposed entities or trusts;

    (k) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
        an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
        accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
        B or, where B is a corporation, of the directors of B;

    (l) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
        an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
        accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
        A or, where A is a corporation, of the directors of A;

    (m) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of B or, where B is a
         corporation, of the directors of B;

    (n) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
         whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
         directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
         corporation, of the directors of A;

    (o) A is a related corporation of B;

    (p) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other
         associates of B as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power in A;

    (q) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with other
         associates of A as described in paragraphs (b) to (o), is in a
         position to control at least 20% of the voting power in B;

    (r) A is a person with whom B enters, or proposes to enter, into
        an agreement or arrangement (whether oral or in writing
        and whether express or implied) that relates to any of the
        following matters:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           48

          (i) A and B being in a position, by acting together, to
              control any of the voting power in a designated
              entity;

          (ii) A and B acting together with respect to the
               acquisition, holding or disposal of equity interests
               or other interests in a designated entity;

          (iii) the power of A and B, by acting together, to appoint
                or remove —

          (A) a director of a designated entity; or

          (B) in the case of a designated entity that is a
               business trust — a director of the trustee-
               manager of the designated entity;

          (iv) the situation where one or more of the directors of —

          (A) a designated entity; or

          (B) in the case of a designated entity that is a
               business trust — the trustee-manager of the
               business trust,

          (iv) are accustomed or under an obligation (whether
               formal or informal) to act in accordance with the
               directions, instructions or wishes of A and B acting
               together;

          (s) A controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
              company of B;

          (t) B controls more than half of the voting power of a holding
              company of A; or

(u) A is related to B in such other manner as may be prescribed
     by regulations made under section 45.

 (2) A corporation (A) and another corporation (B) are deemed to be
related to each other for the purposes of this section where A is —

(a) the holding company of B;

(b) a subsidiary of B; or

          (c) a subsidiary of the holding company of B.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
49  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a corporation (A) is, subject
to subsection (5), deemed to be a subsidiary of another corporation
(B) if —

    (a) B controls the composition of the board of directors of A;

    (b) B controls more than half of the voting power of A; or

    (c) A is a subsidiary of any corporation which is B’s subsidiary.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the composition of A’s board
of directors is deemed to be controlled by B if B, by the exercise of a
power exercisable by it without the consent or concurrence of any
other person, can appoint or remove all or a majority of the directors,
and for the purposes of this provision, B is deemed to have power to
make such an appointment if —

    (a) a person cannot be appointed as a director without the
         exercise in the person’s favour by B of such a power; or

    (b) a person’s appointment as a director follows necessarily
         from that person being a director or other officer of B.

 (5) In determining whether one corporation (A) is the subsidiary of
another corporation (B) —

    (a) any shares held or power exercisable by B in a fiduciary
         capacity is treated as not held or exercisable by B;

    (b) subject to paragraphs (c) and (d), any shares held or power
         exercisable —

    (i) by any person as a nominee for B (except where B is
        concerned only in a fiduciary capacity); or

    (ii) by, or by a nominee for, a subsidiary of B, not being a
         subsidiary which is concerned only in a fiduciary
         capacity,

    (b) is to be treated as being held or exercisable by B;

    (c) any shares held or power exercisable by any person by
        virtue of the provisions of any debentures of A, or of a trust
        deed for securing any issue of such debentures, is to be
        disregarded; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           50

(d) any shares held or power exercisable by, or by a nominee
     for, B or its subsidiary (not being held or exercisable as
     mentioned in paragraph (c)) is to be treated as not held or
     exercisable by B if the ordinary business of B or its
     subsidiary (as the case may be) includes the lending of
     money and the shares are so held or power is so exercisable
     by way of security only for the purposes of a transaction
     entered into in the ordinary course of that business.

 (6) A reference in this section to the holding company of a
corporation is to a corporation of which the last mentioned
corporation is a subsidiary.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the Depository is not to be
regarded as a holding company of a corporation by reason only of the
shares it holds in that corporation as a bare trustee.

 (8) Regulations made under section 45 may provide that any person
or class of persons are not associates of another person for the
purposes of any provision of this Part.

(9) In this section —

“Depository” has the meaning given by section 81SF of the
   Securities and Futures Act 2001;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means a director or
   secretary of, or any person employed in an executive capacity
   by, the corporation.

                                                                       [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Designation of designated operating entities and designated
equity interest holders

 21E.—(1) The Authority may by notification in the Gazette —

       (a) designate an entity that provides any essential transport
            service in Singapore, or any business trust through which
            any essential transport service is provided in Singapore, as
            a designated operating entity; or

       (b) designate an entity that holds any equity interest in a
            designated operating entity as a designated equity interest
            holder,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
51  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

if the Authority considers that the designation is necessary in the
public interest.

 (2) The Authority must inform the Minister of the Authority’s
decision to designate an entity before publishing the notification
under subsection (1) but the failure to do so does not invalidate the
designation.

(3) The notification under subsection (1) —

    (a) must specify the date on which the designation takes effect;
         and

    (b) must be published in the Gazette at least 14 days before the
         date that the designation takes effect.

 (4) The Authority may by notification in the Gazette cancel a
designation at any time.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

              Division 2 — Control of designated entities

Notice to Authority by 5% controller of designated entity

 21F.—(1) If a person becomes a 5% controller of a designated
entity on or after the effective designation date as a result of an
increase in the holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
controlled, by that person or any associate of that person, that person
must within 7 days after becoming the 5% controller give written
notice to the Authority of that fact.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that the accused —

       (a) was not aware of the contravention when it occurred; and

       (b) notified the Authority of the contravention within a period
            of 14 days after becoming aware of the contravention.

 (4) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is
also a defence for the accused to prove that, though the accused was
aware of the contravention —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           52

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
     holding of equity interest, or in the voting power
     controlled, by any of the associates of the accused, in the
     designated entity;

(b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
     oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
     which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
     relation to the designated entity; and

          (c) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
              within a period of 7 days after the contravention.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) to prove that
the accused did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene
subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Approvals of Authority in relation to equity interests and
control of voting power in designated entities in certain cases

 21G.—(1) Except with the prior written approval of the Authority,
a person must not —

       (a) as a result of an increase in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, become a 25% controller, 50%
            controller or 75% controller of a designated entity on or
            after the effective designation date; or

       (b) as a result of a decrease in the holding of equity interest, or
            in the voting power controlled, by that person or any
            associate of that person, cease to be a 25% controller, 50%
            controller or 75% controller of a designated entity on or
            after the effective designation date.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the transaction through which a
person becomes a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller,
or ceases to be a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller, is
entered into before the effective designation date.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
53  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (3) A person must not become an indirect controller of a designated
entity on or after the effective designation date unless the person has
obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (4) The Authority may approve an application under
subsection (1)(a) or (3) if the Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) the person who is to become a 25% controller, 50%
         controller, 75% controller or indirect controller of a
         designated entity and every associate of that person
         known to the Authority, are fit and proper persons;

    (b) the essential transport services provided by the following
         (whichever is applicable) will continue to be safe, reliable
         and efficient:

    (i) the designated operating entity of which the person is
        to become a 25% controller, 50% controller, 75%
        controller or indirect controller;

    (ii) the trustee-manager of the designated operating
         entity of which the person is to become a 25%
         controller, 50% controller, 75% controller or indirect
         controller;

    (iii) in the case where the person is to become a 25%
          controller, 50% controller, 75% controller or indirect
          controller of a designated equity interest holder —
          the designated operating entity, or the trustee-
          manager of the designated operating entity, in
          relation to which the designated equity interest
          holder is so designated;

    (c) having regard to the influence of the person mentioned in
        paragraph (a) and every associate of that person known to
        the Authority, the following requirements are met:

    (i) if the designated entity is a designated operating
        entity — the designated operating entity or, if the
        designated operating entity is a business trust, its
        trustee-manager, will continue to conduct the
        business of the designated operating entity
        prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           54

          (ii) if the designated entity is a designated equity interest
               holder —

          (A) the designated operating entity in respect of
               which the designated equity interest holder is
               so designated or, if that designated operating
               entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,
               will continue to conduct the business of the
               designated operating entity prudently and
               comply with the provisions of this Act; and

          (B) the designated equity interest holder or, if the
               designated equity interest holder is a business
               trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to
               comply with the provisions of this Act; and

(d) it is in the public interest to do so.

 (5) The Authority may approve an application under
subsection (1)(b) if the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) the essential transport services provided by the following
     (whichever is applicable) will continue to be safe, reliable
     and efficient:

          (i) the designated operating entity of which the person is
              a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller;

          (ii) the trustee‑manager of the designated operating
               entity of which the person is a 25% controller,
               50% controller or 75% controller;

          (iii) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
                controller or 75% controller of a designated equity
                interest holder — the designated operating entity, or
                the trustee-manager of the designated operating
                entity, in relation to which the designated equity
                interest holder is so designated;

(b) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
     controller or 75% controller of a designated operating
     entity — the designated operating entity or, if the
     designated operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
55  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    manager, will continue to conduct the business of the
    designated operating entity prudently and comply with the
    provisions of this Act;

    (c) in the case where the person is a 25% controller, 50%
        controller or 75% controller of a designated equity interest
        holder —

    (i) the designated operating entity in respect of which
        the designated equity interest holder is so designated
        or, if that designated operating entity is a business
        trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to conduct
        the business of the designated operating entity
        prudently and comply with the provisions of this
        Act; and

    (ii) the designated equity interest holder or, if the
         designated equity interest holder is a business trust,
         its trustee-manager, will continue to comply with the
         provisions of this Act; and

    (d) it is in the public interest to do so.

(6) The Authority may —

    (a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
         conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
         impose; and

    (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
         imposed.

 (7) Any condition imposed by the Authority under subsection (6)
has effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, limited
liability partnership agreement, partnership contract, trust deed or
other constitution of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1) or (3) is made.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3), or who fails
to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (6), shall be
guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           56

 (9) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

(a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
     occurred;

(b) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
     within a period of 14 days after becoming aware of the
     contravention; and

          (c) if the Authority issued any direction under section 21M
              relating to the contravention —

          (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
              period determined by the Authority under that
              section; or

          (ii) the period determined by the Authority under that
               section for compliance with the direction has not
               expired.

 (10) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1), it is
also a defence for the accused to prove that even though the accused
was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase or a
     decrease in the holding of equity interest, or in the voting
     power controlled, by any of the associates of the accused,
     in the designated entity;

(b) the accused has no agreement or arrangement (whether
     oral or in writing and whether express or implied) with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests or other interests, or under
     which they act together in exercising their voting power, in
     relation to the designated entity;

          (c) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
              within a period of 7 days after the contravention; and

(d) if the Authority issued any direction under section 21M
     relating to the contravention —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
57  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
        period determined by the Authority under that
        section; or

    (ii) the period determined by the Authority under that
         section for compliance with the direction has not
         expired.

 (11) In any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (3), it is a
defence for the accused to prove that —

    (a) the accused was not aware of the contravention when it
         occurred;

    (b) the accused notified the Authority of the contravention
         within a period of 14 days after the contravention; and

    (c) if the Authority issued any direction under section 21M
        relating to the contravention —

    (i) the accused complied with the direction within the
        period determined by the Authority under that
        section; or

    (ii) the period determined by the Authority under that
         section for compliance with the direction has not
         expired.

 (12) Except as provided in subsections (9), (10) and (11), it is not a
defence in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) or
(3) to prove that the accused did not intend to or did not knowingly
contravene subsection (1) or (3).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Appointment and removal of chief executive officer,
chairperson, director, etc., of designated entity

 21H.—(1) A licensee-designated operating entity must not, on or
after the effective designation date, appoint or remove an individual
as its chief executive officer, the chairperson of its board of directors
or any of its directors, unless the licensee-designated operating entity
has obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (2) Each of following persons must not, on or after the effective
designation date, appoint or remove an individual as its chief

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           58

executive officer, or the chairperson of its board of directors unless
the person has obtained the prior written approval of the Authority:

(a) a non-licensee-designated operating entity or, in the case of
     a non-licensee-designated operating entity that is a
     business trust, its trustee-manager;

(b) a designated equity interest holder or, in the case of a
     designated equity interest holder that is a business trust, its
     trustee-manager.

 (3) A person must not, on or after the effective designation date, be
appointed as a manager of, or become a partner in, a limited liability
partnership that is a designated entity unless the designated entity has
obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (4) A person must not, or after the effective designation date,
become a partner in a partnership that is a designated entity unless the
person has obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

(5) The Authority may —

(a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
     conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
     impose; and

(b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
     imposed.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4), or
who fails to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (5),
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (7) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership agreement, partnership
contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the designated entity or
the trustee-manager of the designated entity in relation to which the
application for approval under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is made.

(8) In this section —

(a) a reference to a “licensee-designated operating entity” is to
     a designated operating entity that is also a licensee; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
59  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) a reference to a “non-licensee-designated operating entity”
         is to a designated operating entity that is not a licensee-
         designated operating entity.

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Acquisition of business of designated operating entity as going
concern

 21I.—(1) A person must not, on or after the effective designation
date, acquire as a going concern, the designated operating entity’s
business of providing any essential transport service (or any part of
such business) unless —

       (a) the person; and

       (b) the designated operating entity or, if the designated
            operating entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,

have obtained the prior written approval of the Authority.

 (2) An application for the Authority’s approval under subsection (1)
must be —

       (a) made jointly by the persons mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
            and (b); and

       (b) made in such form and manner as the Authority may
            specify.

 (3) The Authority may approve an application under subsection (1)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the person acquiring the business or part is a fit and proper
            person;

       (b) after the acquisition, the essential transport service
            mentioned in subsection (1) will continue to be safe,
            reliable and efficient;

       (c) in the case where after the acquisition, the designated
            operating entity continues to carry on part of the business
            mentioned in subsection (1) — the designated operating
            entity or, if the designated operating entity is a business
            trust, its trustee-manager, will continue to conduct the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           60

          business of the designated operating entity prudently and
          comply with the provisions of this Act; and

(d) it is in the public interest to do so.

(4) The Authority may —

(a) grant an approval under this section subject to any
     conditions that the Authority considers appropriate to
     impose; and

(b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition so
     imposed.

 (5) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, limited liability partnership agreement, partnership
contract, deed or other constitution, of the designated operating
entity.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), or who fails to
comply with any condition imposed under subsection (4), shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Occurrence of certain events

 21J.—(1) A designated entity or, in the case of a designated entity
that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, must notify the Authority
of any of the following agreements at least 14 days before entering
into the agreement:

       (a) in the case of a designated entity that is a designated
            operating entity — an agreement for the outsourcing of a
            material function performed by the designated operating
            entity in the provision of any essential transport service;

       (b) any agreement prescribed under section 45.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any agreement
entered into by a designated entity before the expiry of 14 days after
the effective designation date.

 (3) A designated entity or, in the case of a designated entity that is a
business trust, its trustee-manager, must notify the Authority of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
61  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

occurrence of any of the following events within 7 days after
becoming aware of the occurrence:

    (a) in the case of a designated entity that is a designated
         operating entity —

    (i) any civil or criminal proceedings (whether in
        Singapore or elsewhere) instituted against the
        designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
        business trust, its trustee-manager, that materially
        impedes or impairs the operations of the designated
        entity carried out in the course of providing any
        essential transport service; or

    (ii) any other event or any irregularity that materially
         impedes or impairs the operations of the designated
         entity carried out in the course of providing any
         essential transport service;

    (b) the designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
         business trust, its trustee-manager, being or becoming, or
         being likely to become, insolvent;

    (c) the designated entity or, if the designated entity is a
        business trust, its trustee-manager —

    (i) being wound up or subject to any receivership or
        judicial management order; or

    (ii) entering into a compromise or scheme of
         arrangement;

    (d) in the case of a designated entity that is a business trust —
         the business trust being wound up or deregistered or the
         making of an application for the deregistration of the
         business trust;

    (e) any other event prescribed under section 45.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply where the designated entity or
trustee-manager (as the case may be) becomes aware of the
occurrence of the event before the effective designation date.

 (5) The Authority may, upon receiving a notification under
subsection (1) or (3) in relation to an agreement or the occurrence

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           62

of an event, direct the designated entity or trustee-manager in
question to submit to the Authority any information or document
relating to the agreement or event within the period specified by the
Authority.

(6) Any person who —

(a) contravenes subsection (1) or (3);

(b) fails to comply with a direction of the Authority under
     subsection (5); or

          (c) submits any false or misleading information or document
              in compliance or purported compliance with a direction of
              the Authority under subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Duty of designated entity or trustee-manager to report changes
of equity and control of certain persons

 21K.—(1) If a designated entity or, in the case of a designated
entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager, becomes aware
that —

       (a) a person has, on or after the effective designation date,
            become a 5% controller, 25% controller, 50% controller or
            75% controller of the designated entity;

       (b) a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of the
            designated entity has, on or after the effective designation
            date, ceased to be a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75%
            controller (as the case may be) of the designated entity;

       (c) a person has, on or after the effective designation date,
            become an indirect controller of the designated entity; or

       (d) in a case where the designated entity is a designated
            operating entity — a person has, on or after the effective
            designation date, acquired, as a going concern, the
            designated operating entity’s business of providing any
            essential transport service (or any part of such business),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
63  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

the designated entity or trustee-manager (as the case may be) must
inform the Authority in writing within 7 days after becoming aware of
that fact.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc., of designated
operating entities

 21L.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) a designated operating entity that is a corporation or
            limited liability partnership cannot be wound up
            voluntarily without the consent of the Authority;

       (b) a designated operating entity that is a partnership cannot be
            dissolved —

               (i) by a partner giving notice to the other partner or
                   partners (as the case may be) of the partner’s
                   intention to dissolve the partnership; or

              (ii) by the partners agreeing to dissolve the partnership,

       (b) without the consent of the Authority;

       (c) a designated operating entity that is a business trust cannot
            be wound up voluntarily without the consent of the
            Authority;

       (d) a person must not make any application under section 210
            of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
            designated operating entity that is a corporation, unless that
            person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of that
            person’s intention to make that application on the
            Authority;

       (e) no judicial management order under Part 7 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may
            be made in relation to a designated operating entity that is a
            corporation without the consent of the Authority;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           64

          (f) no interim judicial manager or judicial manager may be
              appointed under section 94 of the Insolvency,
              Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of a
              designated operating entity that is a corporation without
              the consent of the Authority;

(g) a person must not take any step to enforce any security
     over —

          (i) the property of a designated operating entity; or

          (ii) in the case of a designated operating entity that is a
               business trust — the trust property of the trust,

(g) unless that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of
     that person’s intention to take that step on the Authority;
     and

(h) a person must not take any step to execute or enforce any
     judgment or order of court obtained against a designated
     operating entity unless that person has served 14 days’
     notice in writing of that person’s intention to take that step
     on the Authority.

(2) The Authority must be a party to —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to a designated operating entity that is a
     corporation;

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
     management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
     designated operating entity that is a corporation;

          (c) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
              Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
              affairs of a designated operating entity that is a company or
              an unregistered company;

(d) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
     Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of a

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
65  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    designated operating entity that is a limited liability
    partnership; and

    (e) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
        winding up or termination (as the case may be) of any
        designated operating entity that is an entity not mentioned
        in paragraph (c) or (d).

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the Minister in those proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                    Division 3 — Remedial directions

Remedial directions relating to section 21G

 21M.—(1) Subsection (2), (3) or (4) applies if —

       (a) the Authority is satisfied that a person (called in this
            section a defaulter) —

               (i) has contravened section 21G(1) or (3) or failed to
                   comply with a condition imposed on that person
                   under section 21G(7); or

              (ii) has provided false or misleading information or
                   documents in connection with an application for
                   approval under section 21G(1) or (3); or

       (b) the Authority would not have granted its approval under
            section 21G(1) or (3) had it been aware, at the time of
            approval, of circumstances relevant to a defaulter’s
            application for such approval.

 (2) Where the defaulter is a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75%
controller of the designated entity, the Authority may do any one or
more of the following:

       (a) direct the defaulter to take such steps as are necessary,
            within the period specified by the Authority, to cease to be
            a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller (as the
            case may be) of the designated entity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           66

(b) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the equity
     interests in the designated entity held by the defaulter or
     any of the defaulter’s associates (called in this section and
     section 21N the section 21M(2) equity interests), within
     such time and subject to such conditions as the Authority
     considers appropriate;

          (c) restrict or prohibit the transfer or disposal of all or any of
              the section 21M(2) equity interests, subject to any
              conditions that the Authority considers appropriate;

(d) make any other direction that the Authority considers
     appropriate.

 (3) Where, as a result of a person (called in this subsection the
transferee) acquiring any equity interests from the defaulter who is a
25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller of the designated
entity (called in this section and section 21N the section 21M(3)
equity interests), the defaulter ceases to be a 25% controller, 50%
controller or 75% controller (as the case may be), the Authority may
do one or more of the following:

(a) direct the transferee to take such steps as are necessary,
     within the period specified by the Authority, to cease to
     hold all or any of the section 21M(3) equity interests;

(b) direct the defaulter to take such steps as are necessary
     within the period specified by the Authority, to resume
     being a 25% controller, 50% controller or 75% controller
     (as the case may be) of the designated entity, as the case
     may be;

          (c) direct the acquisition, transfer or disposal of all or any of
              the section 21M(3) equity interests within such time and
              subject to such conditions as the Authority considers
              appropriate;

(d) restrict or prohibit the transfer or disposal of all or any of
     the section 21M(3) equity interests, subject to any
     conditions that the Authority considers appropriate;

          (e) make any other direction that the Authority considers
              appropriate.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
67  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (4) Where the defaulter is an indirect controller of the designated
entity, the Authority may do one or both of the following:

    (a) direct the defaulter, or direct the designated entity or, if the
         designated entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager, to
         take such steps as are necessary, within the period specified
         by the Authority, to cease to be such an indirect controller
         or to cause the defaulter to cease to be such an indirect
         controller;

    (b) make any other direction that the Authority considers
         appropriate.

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of remedial directions issued under section 21M, etc.

 21N.—(1) Any direction issued to a person, and any condition
imposed, under section 21M(2) or (3) take effect, despite —

       (a) any other written law;

       (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
            the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

       (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
            association, limited liability partnership agreement,
            partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution of
            the designated entity in question.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), where any direction is issued
under section 21M(2) or (3), then, until the direction is carried out or
is suspended or revoked —

       (a) the voting rights in respect of the section 21M(2) equity
            interests or section 21M(3) equity interests that are subject
            to the direction are not exercisable, unless the Authority
            expressly permits those rights to be exercised;

       (b) the voting power that the person to whom the direction is
            issued controls, whether alone or together with that
            person’s associates, in the designated entity is not
            exercisable, unless the Authority expressly permits that
            power to be exercised;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           68

          (c) no equity interest in the designated entity is to be issued or
              offered (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
              respect of the section 21M(2) equity interests or
              section 21M(3) equity interests that are subject to the
              direction, unless the Authority expressly permits that issue
              or offer; and

(d) no amount may be paid (whether by way of profits, income
     or otherwise) in respect of the section 21M(2) equity
     interests or section 21M(3) equity interests that are subject
     to the direction, unless the Authority expressly authorises
     such payment.

 (3) Subsection (2)(d) does not apply in the event of the winding up,
dissolution, termination or deregistration of the designated entity.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Remedial directions relating to section 21H

 21O.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where —

       (a) an individual has been appointed or removed in
            contravention of section 21H(1) or (2), or a person has
            been appointed a manager of or becomes a partner in a
            designated entity in contravention of section 21H(3) or (4);

       (b) any condition of approval imposed under section 21H(5)
            has not been complied with;

       (c) any of the following persons has provided false or
            misleading information or documents to the Authority in
            connection with an application for approval under
            section 21H(1), (2), (3) or (4):

               (i) a designated entity;

              (ii) the trustee-manager of a designated entity;

             (iii) the person mentioned in section 21H(4); or

       (d) the Authority would not have granted its approval under
            section 21H(1), (2), (3) or (4) had it been aware, at the time
            of approval, of circumstances relevant to a person’s
            application for such approval.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
69  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (2) The Authority may issue a direction to the designated entity or
trustee-manager in question (as the case may be) to do as follows
(whichever is applicable):

    (a) remove the individual as the chief executive officer, the
         chairperson of the board of directors or a director of the
         designated entity or trustee-manager, as the case may be;

    (b) reinstate the individual as the chief executive officer, the
         chairperson of the board of directors or a director of the
         designated entity or trustee-manager, as the case may be;

    (c) remove the person as a manager of or partner in the
        designated entity.

 (3) A direction issued under this section (including a direction
varied under section 21Q(2)) has effect despite the provisions of any
other written law or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association, limited liability partnership agreement,
partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the
designated entity or trustee-manager in question.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (2) is to be taken as depriving a person
who is removed under that subsection of compensation or damages
payable to that person in respect of the termination of his or her
appointment as the chief executive officer, the chairperson of the
board of directors or a director, or the person’s removal as a manager
or partner.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Remedial directions relating to section 21I

 21P.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where —

       (a) a person has contravened section 21I(1); or

       (b) where the Authority has granted its approval under
            section 21I(1) —

               (i) any condition of approval imposed under
                   section 21I(4) has not been complied with;

              (ii) either of the joint applicants mentioned in
                   section 21I(1)(a) or (b) has provided false or
                   misleading information or documents to the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           70

          Authority in connection with the person’s application
          for approval under section 21I(1); or

          (iii) the Authority would not have granted its approval
                under section 21I(1) had it been aware, at the time of
                approval, of circumstances relevant to the
                application for such approval.

(2) The Authority may —

(a) direct the person who has acquired as a going concern the
     business or part of the business mentioned in section 21I(1)
     to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the business
     within such time and subject to such conditions as the
     Authority considers appropriate;

(b) prohibit or restrict the transfer or disposal of all or any part
     of the business; or

          (c) issue any other direction that the Authority considers
              appropriate.

 (3) A direction issued under this section (including a direction
varied under section 21Q(2)) has effect despite the provisions of any
other written law or anything contained in the memorandum or
articles of association, limited liability partnership agreement,
partnership contract, trust deed or other constitution, of the
designated operating entity in question.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Other provisions relating to remedial directions

 21Q.—(1) Before issuing any direction to a person under
section 21M, 21O or 21P, the Authority must —

       (a) unless the Authority decides that it is not practicable or
            desirable to do so, give the person written notice of the
            Authority’s intention to issue the direction and specify a
            date by which the person may make written representations
            with regard to the direction; and

       (b) consider every written representation from the person
            received on or before the specified date mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
71  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (2) The Authority may, at any time, revoke, vary or discharge, or
suspend the operation of, any direction given by it under section 21M,
21O or 21P.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with a direction issued by the
Authority under section 21M, 21O or 21P (including a direction that
is varied under subsection (2)) within the period specified by the
Authority shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                           Division 4 — Penalties

Penalties under this Part

 21R. A person guilty of an offence under this Part shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                    PART 4

                          SAFETY OF RAILWAY

Appointment of inspector

 22.—(1) The Minister may in writing appoint any person to be an
inspector for the purposes of this Part.

 (2) The powers conferred by section 23 or by any regulations made
under this Act may be exercised by an inspector only —

       (a) for the purpose of ensuring the safety of any railway or any
            part thereof; or

       (b) when an inspector is directed to do so pursuant to such
            regulations, for the purpose of investigating an accident on
            any part of any railway,

after the railway or the part in question has commenced operation for
public use.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           72

 (3) An inspector may appoint any persons that the inspector
considers necessary to assist him or her in the performance of his
or her duties and may in writing authorise any such person to exercise
any power conferred on the inspector by section 23 or by any
regulations made under this Act for any purpose mentioned in
subsection (2).

 (4) When exercising any power, an inspector or a person authorised
under subsection (3) must produce to any person who requests him or
her to do so evidence of his or her identity and, in the case of an
inspector, of his or her appointment or, in the case of a person so
authorised, of his or her authority.

General powers of inspector

 23.—(1) An inspector may —

       (a) at all reasonable times, enter upon premises to which this
            subsection applies;

       (b) carry out on premises to which this subsection applies, or
            on any machinery, plant or equipment thereon, any tests
            and inspections that the inspector considers expedient;

       (c) require any person to whom this subsection applies —

               (i) to do anything which the inspector reasonably
                   considers to be necessary for facilitating any test or
                   inspection; and

              (ii) to provide the inspector with any information
                   relating to any railway or any machinery, plant or
                   equipment connected with the railway that the
                   inspector may specify, and to answer any question
                   or produce for inspection any document which is
                   necessary for that purpose; and

       (d) take copies of any document produced to the inspector
            under paragraph (c)(ii).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
73  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

(2) Subsection (1) applies to —

    (a) any railway premises and the premises of any contractor or
         subcontractor who is carrying out or has carried out any
         work on the railway; and

    (b) any employee of the Authority, any licensee, any employee
         of any licensee, any contractor or subcontractor mentioned
         in paragraph (a) and any employee of that contractor or
         subcontractor.

(3) Any person who —

    (a) without lawful excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
         under subsection (1)(c);

    (b) knowingly furnishes to an inspector or a person authorised
         under section 22(3) acting under subsection (1)(c)
         information that is false or misleading in a material
         particular; or

    (c) obstructs an inspector or a person authorised under
        section 22(3) in the exercise of his or her powers under
        subsection (1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months.

Screening, etc., train passengers or entrants to railway
premises

 23A.—(1) It is a condition of entry to any train or railway premises
that a train passenger of the train or an entrant to those premises must,
if asked by a police officer or an approved person anywhere in or in
the immediate vicinity of the train or railway premises, do one or
more of the following for the purpose of ensuring the security or
safety of persons who are or may be on board the train or on the
railway premises:

       (a) undergo any form of security screening mentioned in
            subsection (2);

       (b) undergo a frisk search;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           74

          (c) permit an inspection to be made of the personal property of
              the train passenger or entrant;

       (d) permit a search through any bag, container or other
            receptacle or any garments removed in accordance with
            subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (2) To ensure the security or safety of persons who are or may be on
board a train or on any railway premises, a police officer or an
approved person may ask a train passenger of the train or an entrant to
the railway premises to do one or more of the following:

(a) walk through a screening detector;

(b) pass the personal property of the train passenger or entrant
     through an X‑ray machine;

          (c) allow the police officer or approved person to pass a
              hand‑held scanner in close proximity to the personal
              property of the train passenger or entrant;

(d) allow the police officer or approved person to inspect the
     personal property of the train passenger or entrant;

          (e) produce or empty the contents of any bag, container or
              other receptacle in the possession or apparently in the
              immediate control of the train passenger or entrant;

          (f) turn out the train passenger’s or entrant’s pockets or
              remove all articles from the train passenger’s or entrant’s
              clothing, and allow the police officer or approved person to
              inspect them;

(g) remove any coat, jacket, gloves, shoes or hat or any other
     thing worn or carried by the train passenger or entrant,
     which may be conveniently removed if worn and that is
     specified by the police officer or approved person, and
     allow the police officer or approved person to inspect the
     coat, jacket, gloves, shoes or hat or other thing;

(h) open an article for inspection and allow the police officer
     or approved person to inspect it.

                                                                                                 [12/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
75  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (3) To ensure the security or safety of persons who are or may be on
board a train or on any railway premises, a police officer or a senior
approved person may also ask a train passenger of the train or an
entrant to the railway premises to do one or more of the following:

    (a) undergo a frisk search;

       (b) allow the police officer or senior approved person to pass a
            hand‑held scanner in close proximity to the train passenger
            or entrant.

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (4) To avoid doubt, a police officer or an approved person may
make a request to a train passenger of a train or an entrant to a railway
premises to do anything under subsection (2)(d), (e), (f), (g) or (h) if
the police officer or approved person (as the case may be) reasonably
considers it necessary to make such a request under that provision,
whether or not the train passenger or entrant or the personal property
of the train passenger or entrant has been subjected to screening or a
frisk search under subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c) or (3).

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (5) Without limiting subsection (6), where any train passenger of a
train or entrant to any railway premises refuses —

    (a) to permit to be screened or inspected under subsection (2)
         or (3) by a police officer or an approved person —

    (i) the personal property of the train passenger or
        entrant; or

    (ii) any bag, container or other receptacle in the
         possession or apparently in the immediate control
         of the train passenger or entrant;

    (b) to allow a police officer or an approved person under
         subsection (2) or (3) to pass a hand‑held scanner in close
         proximity to the train passenger or entrant or personal
         property of the train passenger or entrant; or

    (c) to undergo a frisk search under subsection (3) by a police
        officer or a senior approved person,

the police officer or approved person (as the case may be) may order
the train passenger or entrant (as the case may be) to immediately

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           76

leave the train or railway premises and with that personal property,
bag, container or receptacle, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (6) An individual commits an offence if the individual, without
reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with any request or
order of a police officer or an approved person under subsection (2),
(3) or (5).

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (7) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (6)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                                           [12/2021]

 (8) However, it is not an offence under subsection (6) for any
individual to refuse to comply with any request or order made or
given by —

(a) a police officer who is not in uniform and who fails to
     declare his or her office; or

      (b) an approved person who fails to declare his or her office
           and, in the case of an outsourced enforcement officer, who
           also refuses to produce his or her identification card on
           demand being made by that individual.

                                                                                                         [12/2021]

(9) In this section —

“approved person”, in relation to any train or railway premises,
   means any of the following individuals who is authorised by
   the Authority in writing to exercise any power under this
   section at or in relation to the train or those railway premises:

          (a) an officer or employee of the Authority;

          (b) a member of an auxiliary police force in uniform;

          (c) an employee of a licensee authorised to operate a
              rapid transit system using that train or railway
              premises;

          (d) a security officer (within the meaning of the Private
               Security Industry Act 2007) engaged by a licensee
               mentioned in paragraph (c);

          (e) an outsourced enforcement officer;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
77  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    “entrant”, in relation to any railway premises, means an
       individual who is about to enter the railway premises, and
       includes an individual who is within the railway premises,
       whether or not a train passenger;

    “frisk search” means a search of an individual conducted by
       quickly running the hands over the individual’s outer
       clothing;

    “hand‑held scanner” means a device that may be passed over or
       around an individual or an individual’s personal property to
       detect metal, dangerous objects or explosive or other
       hazardous substances;

    “identification card”, in relation to an outsourced enforcement
       officer, means an identification card issued under
       section 11(3) of the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
       Act 1995 to the officer;

    “inspecting an article” includes handling the article, opening it
       and examining or moving its contents;

    “personal property”, in relation to an individual, means things
       carried by the individual or things apparently in the
       immediate control of the individual, but does not include
       clothing being worn by the individual;

    “railway premises” includes a bicycle parking facility or vehicle
       set down facility adjoining the railway premises;

    “senior approved person”, in relation to any train or railway
       premises, means an approved person who is authorised by the
       Authority in writing to exercise any power under this section
       at or in relation to the train or railway premises concerned, as
       follows:

    (a) a member of an auxiliary police force in uniform;

    (b) a security officer (within the meaning of the Private
         Security Industry Act 2007) engaged by a licensee
         authorised to operate a rapid transit system using that
         train or railway premises;

    (c) an outsourced enforcement officer;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           78

“train passenger”, in relation to any train, means an individual
   carried on board the train, and includes —

          (a) an individual boarding or intending to board the train
               for the purpose of travelling on board the train as a
               passenger; and

          (b) a driver, fare collector or an inspector while carrying
               out work or on duty on board the train in that
               capacity, or intending to board the train for the
               purpose of carrying out that work or duty.

                                                                                                 [12/2021]

Obstructing railway premises, etc.

 23B.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not cause or
allow any small vehicle, article or thing to remain on —

       (a) any part of the railway premises; or

       (b) any part of a bicycle parking facility or vehicle set down
            facility adjoining the railway premises,

so as to create any obstruction or inconvenience to the passage of the
public to, from or within the railway premises.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the obstruction or
inconvenience is authorised or permitted by or under this Act or
any other Act, or arises out of a lawful and reasonable use of the
railway premises, bicycle parking facility or vehicle set down facility,
as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) Where an approved person finds on any part of any railway
premises or a bicycle parking facility or vehicle set down facility
adjoining the railway premises, any small vehicle, article or thing
which has been abandoned, or deposited or left to remain there in
contravention of subsection (1), the approved person may move the
small vehicle, article or thing, or cause it to be so removed, so that it is
no longer an obstruction or inconvenience to other persons on the
railway premises.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
79  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), an approved person must not exercise
a power under subsection (3) unless the approved person has taken
reasonable steps to inform the owner of the small vehicle, article or
thing (if known) of the approved person’s intention to exercise that
power, and allowed or directed the owner to move the small vehicle,
article or thing.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) An approved person may immediately exercise a power under
subsection (3) and move a small vehicle, article or thing, or cause it to
be so removed, where the small vehicle, article or thing which has
been abandoned, or deposited or left to remain in contravention of
subsection (1), is causing obstruction or inconvenience to other
persons on the railway premises.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (3), an
approved person may, with any assistance that the approved person
considers necessary —

    (a) move the small vehicle, article or thing by any reasonable
         means (including by towing it) to a holding yard and detain
         it there at the risk of its owner; and

       (b) use reasonable force, including cutting or breaking open
            any lock, seal, fastener or other device on or connected to
            the small vehicle, article or thing, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (7) A person must remove any small vehicle, article or thing where
directed to do so by an approved person under subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (8) When a small vehicle, article or thing is moved to a holding yard
under this section by an approved person, the approved person must
as soon as practicable give to the owner of the small vehicle, article or
thing (if known) notice of —

    (a) the move;

    (b) the manner by which and the time within which the owner
         may procure the release of the small vehicle, article or
         thing, which includes paying to the Authority all expenses
         incurred by the Authority, the licensee concerned or an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           80

          approved person in moving and detaining the small
          vehicle, article or thing; and

       (c) the consequences that may follow under subsection (10) if
            the small vehicle, article or thing is not claimed within the
            time specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (9) Without limiting section 37, a notice required under
subsection (8) to be given to the owner of a small vehicle, article
or thing may be given —

(a) by affixing it to the small vehicle, article or thing in respect
     of which it applies; or

       (b) by posting it conspicuously at or near the part of the
            railway premises or a bicycle parking facility or vehicle set
            down facility adjoining the railway premises from which
            the small vehicle, article or thing was removed, if the name
            and address of the owner of the small vehicle, article or
            thing are unknown or cannot be ascertained despite
            reasonable diligence.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (10) If the small vehicle, article or thing is not claimed by its owner
within the reasonable time specified in the notice mentioned in
subsection (8), the Authority may dispose of the small vehicle, article
or thing in any manner that the Authority thinks fit (including selling
it).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (11) A person —

(a) who contravenes subsection (1) or (7); or

(b) who, without the authority of an approved person, removes
     or tampers with any notice required under subsection (8)
     that has been —

          (i) affixed to any small vehicle, article or thing under
              subsection (9)(a); or

          (ii) posted at any part of, or at or near the part of, the
               railway premises or a bicycle parking facility or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
81  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    vehicle set down facility adjoining the railway
    premises under subsection (9)(b),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2,000.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (12) In this section —

    “approved person”, in relation to any railway premises, means
       any of the following individuals who is authorised by the
       Authority in writing to exercise any power under this section
       at or in relation to those railway premises:

    (a) an officer or employee of the Authority;

    (b) an employee of a licensee;

    (c) an outsourced enforcement officer;

    “small vehicle” means a bicycle, power-assisted bicycle,
       personal mobility device, mobility vehicle or
       non‑motorised wheelchair, within the meanings given by
       section 2(1) of the Active Mobility Act 2017.

                                                                                                       [38/2018]

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2026 wef 04/05/2026]

Minister may order defects to be remedied

 24.—(1) Where in the Minister’s opinion —

       (a) the condition of any part of any railway which has been
            brought into operation or of any machinery, plant or
            equipment of such part; or

       (b) the manner in which any railway or any part thereof is
            being operated,

is such as to cause, or to be likely to cause, a risk of injury to any
person, the Minister may, by written order, direct the Authority or a
licensee (whichever is the relevant party) or both the Authority and
the licensee, to carry out the work, or to take the steps, that the
Minister may specify in the order to ensure that the condition of the
railway, or of the part of the machinery, plant or equipment in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           82

question, or the manner of operation will cease to constitute such a
risk.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may specify the time before
which the Authority or licensee or both (as the case may be) must
commence to carry out the specified work or take the specified steps
and the time by which the same must be completed.

 (3) The Authority or licensee which fails, without reasonable
excuse, to comply with an order made under this section shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine of $500 for every day during which it is proved to the court that
the failure to comply with the order has continued without reasonable
excuse.

 (4) Any copy of a document which purports to be an order signed
by the Minister for the purposes of subsection (1) —

(a) is to be admitted in evidence in proceedings for an offence
     under subsection (3) on its production without further
     proof; and

(b) is evidence of the Minister’s opinion and of the other
     matters contained therein.

Offence of wilfully endangering safety

 25. Any person who wilfully does or omits to do anything in
relation to any railway as a result of which the safety of any person
travelling or being upon the railway is endangered, or is likely to be
so endangered, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Damage to railway or railway premises

 26. Any person who wilfully removes, destroys or damages any
railway or railway premises or any part thereof shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
83  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Compensation for damaging railway or railway premises

 27.—(1) Any person who removes, destroys or damages, whether
wilfully or otherwise, any railway or railway premises or any part
thereof shall, in addition to any penalty for which the person is liable
for an offence under this Act, be liable to pay compensation for the
damage the person has done and the compensation shall be
recoverable by civil action or suit before any court of competent
jurisdiction.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), any court before which a person is
charged with an offence under this Act may assess the compensation
payable under this section and may make an order for the payment of
the same.

 (3) Any order made under subsection (2) may be enforced as if it
were a judgment in a civil action or suit.

                                   PART 4A

           SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDERS AND
               SCHEMES OF TRANSFERS, ETC., FOR
                    LICENSEES AND DESIGNATED
                          OPERATING ENTITIES

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Interpretation of this Part

 27A.—(1) In this Part —

      “designated operating entity” excludes an entity that is also a
         licensee;

      “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
         section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

      “relevant entity” means a licensee or a designated operating
         entity;

      “unitholder” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business
         Trusts Act 2004;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           84

“unregistered company” has the meaning given by
   section 245(1) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
   Dissolution Act 2018.

(2) In this Part —

(a) a reference to the affairs, business, undertaking, operations
     or activities of a relevant entity that is a business trust is to
     the affairs, business, undertaking, operations or activities
     (as the case may be) carried on by the trustee-manager of
     the business trust on behalf of the business trust; and

(b) a reference to the obligations of a relevant entity that is a
     business trust is to the obligations undertaken by the
     trustee-manager of the business trust on behalf of the
     business trust.

                                                                    [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Meaning and purposes of special administration order

 27B.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made in relation to a relevant entity in accordance with section 27C,
directing that during the period the order is in force, the affairs,
business and property of that entity are to be managed by a person
appointed by the Minister which may be the Authority (called in this
Part an appointed person) —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes specified in
            subsection (2); and

       (b) in a manner that protects the interests of the shareholders,
            unitholders or beneficiaries (as the case may be), and the
            customers and creditors, of the entity.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the purposes are as
follows:

       (a) in the case of a relevant entity that is a licensee — the
            safety, security and continuity of the provision of railway
            passenger services and facilities relating to the rapid transit
            system specified in its licence;

       (b) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated operating
            entity — the security and reliability of the business,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
85  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    undertaking or activities of the relevant entity in Singapore
    relating to the provision of any essential transport service;

    (c) the survival of the relevant entity or the whole or any part
        of the business or undertaking of the relevant entity, as a
        going concern;

    (d) the transfer to another person, or (as respects different parts
         of its business or undertaking) to 2 or more different
         persons, as a going concern, of so much of the business or
         undertaking of the relevant entity as is necessary to ensure
         that the following may be properly carried out:

    (i) in the case of a relevant entity that is a licensee — the
        obligations of the entity in relation to its business,
        undertaking or activities of providing railway
        passenger services and facilities relating to the
        rapid transit system specified in its licence;

    (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated
         operating entity — the obligations of the entity in
         relation to its business, undertaking or activities of
         providing any essential transport service; and

    (e) the carrying out of the obligations of the relevant entity
        mentioned in paragraph (d)(i) or (ii) (whichever is
        applicable) pending the transfer, as a going concern, of
        the entity’s business or undertaking mentioned in
        paragraph (d)(i) or (ii) (as the case may be) to any other
        person or persons.

                                                                        [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Power to make special administration order and other orders

 27C.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the
Authority, the Minister is satisfied that any one or more of the
grounds specified in subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to a
relevant entity, the Minister may make any one or more of the
following orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to the relevant
            entity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           86

(b) an order requiring —

          (i) the relevant entity; or

          (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a business
               trust — the trustee-manager of the business trust,

(b) to immediately take any action or to do or not do any act or
     thing where the Minister considers that the action or the
     doing or not doing of the act or thing is necessary for —

          (iii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a licensee — the
                business, undertaking or activities of the entity of
                providing railway passenger services and facilities
                relating to the rapid transit system specified in its
                licence; or

          (iv) in the case of a relevant entity that is a designated
               operating entity — the business, undertaking or
               activities of the entity of providing any essential
               transport service by the entity;

          (c) an order appointing a person (called in this Part an advisor)
              to advise —

          (i) the relevant entity; or

          (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a business
               trust — the trustee-manager of the business trust,

          (c) in the proper conduct of the business, undertaking or
              activities of the relevant entity mentioned in
              paragraph (b)(iii) or (iv), whichever is applicable.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the grounds are the
following:

(a) in the case of a relevant entity that is a licensee —

          (i) there has been, is or is likely to be a contravention by
              the licensee of the conditions of its licence or this Act
              that is serious enough to make it inappropriate for the
              licensee to continue to hold its licence to operate the
              rapid transit system specified in its licence; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
87  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (ii) the Minister considers it to be in the interest of the
         safety, security and continuity of the provision of
         railway passenger services relating to the rapid
         transit system that the entity is licensed to operate;

    (b) the relevant entity is or is likely to be unable to pay its
         debts;

    (c) the Minister considers it to be in the interest of the security
        and reliability of the carrying on of the business,
        undertaking or activities of the relevant entity;

    (d) the Minister considers it to be in the public interest.

 (3) No special administration order may be made under this Part in
relation to a relevant entity that is a designated operating entity before
its effective designation date.

 (4) Notice of any order under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Minister to such persons and in such manner as
may be determined by the Minister.

 (5) The Minister may make a special administration order in
relation to a relevant entity despite the commencement of (as
applicable) —

    (a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
         section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
         relation to the relevant entity, being a corporation;

    (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
         management order under Part 7 of the Insolvency,
         Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to the
         relevant entity, being a corporation;

    (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
        Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
        respect of the relevant entity, being a corporation;

    (d) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
         affairs of the relevant entity, being a company or an
         unregistered company;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           88

          (e) any proceedings under the Limited Liability Partnerships
              Act 2005 relating to the winding up of the affairs of the
              relevant entity, being a limited liability partnership; or

          (f) any proceedings before any court for the dissolution,
              winding up or termination (as the case may be) of the
              relevant entity, being an entity not mentioned in
              paragraph (d) or (e).

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a relevant entity is unable to pay
its debts if —

(a) a creditor (by assignment or otherwise) to whom the entity
     is indebted in a sum exceeding the sum mentioned in
     section 125(2)(a) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
     Dissolution Act 2018 then due has served on the entity, by
     leaving at the registered office of the entity, a written
     demand by the creditor or the creditor’s lawfully
     authorised agent requiring the entity to pay the sum so
     due, and the entity has for 3 weeks after the service of the
     demand neglected to pay the sum, or to secure or
     compound for it to the reasonable satisfaction of the
     creditor;

(b) an enforcement order or other process issued to enforce a
     judgment, decree or order of any court in favour of a
     creditor of the entity is returned unsatisfied in whole or in
     part; or

          (c) it is proved to the satisfaction of the General Division of
              the High Court that the entity is unable to pay its debts.

                                                                              [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Ancillary directions, etc., when special administration order,
etc., is made

 27D.—(1) A special administration order under this Part may
specify that —

       (a) the appointed person has such functions and powers in
            relation to the operations of the relevant entity as are
            specified in the order;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
89  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) the relevant entity or, if the relevant entity is a business
         trust, its trustee-manager, is to stop providing a specified
         service or facility from a specified date; and

    (c) the appointed person must have access to, and take control
        of, the property (including intellectual property), licences
        and employees used or required by the relevant entity or, if
        the relevant entity is a business trust, its trustee-manager,
        for the purposes of carrying on the operations of the
        relevant entity as are specified in the order.

 (2) A special administration order under this Part may also contain
ancillary directions that may —

    (a) direct how the costs of the operations specified in the order
         and revenue generated from those operations, are to be
         dealt with;

    (b) fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by the
         relevant entity or trustee-manager to the appointed person;

    (c) specify the period for which the order under this section
        applies; and

    (d) specify any other conditions that may apply.

 (3) An order under section 27C(1)(c) may also contain an ancillary
direction that fixes the remuneration and expenses to be paid by the
designated operating entity or trustee-manager to the advisor.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of special administration order and other orders

 27E.—(1) Any decision of the Minister under section 27C(1) is
final.

 (2) A special administration order operates to the exclusion of
rights that are inconsistent with the order.

 (3) Nothing in Part 3 or 3A applies to prohibit or invalidate any
special administration order or other order made under this Part or
any transaction entered into to give effect to such an order.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           90

Duties of relevant entity or trustee-manager, etc.

 27F.—(1) The relevant entity that is the subject of a special
administration order under this Part or, in the case of such a relevant
entity that is a business trust, its trustee-manager —

(a) must facilitate the handover of the operations to the
     appointed person as specified in the order;

(b) must not obstruct the appointed person’s access to property
     or the exercise by the appointed person of the appointed
     person’s responsibilities under or pursuant to the special
     administration order; and

          (c) must comply with reasonable directions given by the
              appointed person in the exercise of the appointed person’s
              responsibilities under or pursuant to the special
              administration order.

 (2) The relevant entity or trustee-manager which fails to comply
with subsection (1) or an order under section 27C(1)(b) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Scheme for transfer of property, rights and liabilities from
existing licensee to new licensee

 27G. Without limiting sections 27B, 27C and 27D, where a special
administration order is made in relation to a relevant entity that is a
licensee (called the existing licensee) and it is proposed that, on or
after a date appointed in the order, another entity (which may or may
not be the appointed person) that is a company (called the new
licensee) should operate the rapid transit system that the existing
licensee is authorised to operate, in place of the existing licensee —

       (a) the existing licensee, acting with the consent of the new
            licensee and of any other licensees (in respect of matters
            affecting them), may make a scheme, in accordance with
            any prescribed requirements, for the transfer of property,
            rights and liabilities from the existing licensee to the new
            licensee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
91  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) any such scheme does not take effect unless it is approved
         by the Authority;

    (c) the Authority may, with the consent of the new licensee, of
        the existing licensee and, in respect of matters affecting
        them, of any other licensees, modify any such scheme
        before approving it;

    (d) it is the duty of the new licensee, the existing licensee and
         any other licensees to provide the Authority with all such
         information and other assistance as the Authority may
         reasonably require for the purposes of, or in connection
         with, the exercise of any power conferred under this
         section;

    (e) the property, rights and liabilities of the existing licensee
        that are capable of being transferred in accordance with
        any such scheme include —

    (i) property, rights and liabilities that would not
        otherwise be capable of being transferred or
        assigned by the existing licensee;

    (ii) such property, rights and liabilities to which the
         existing licensee may become entitled or subject
         after the making of the scheme and before the day the
         special administration order is discharged;

    (iii) property situated anywhere in Singapore or
          elsewhere; and

    (iv) rights and liabilities under the law of Singapore or of
         any country or territory outside Singapore;

    (f) any such scheme for the transfer of the existing licensee’s
        property, rights and liabilities may, where appropriate —

    (i) create for the existing licensee, the new licensee or
        any other licensees an interest in or right over any
        property to which the scheme relates;

    (ii) create new rights and liabilities as between any 2 or
         more of those licensees; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           92

          (iii) provide for a licence held by an existing licensee to
                have effect as if it had been granted to the new
                licensee; and

(g) any such scheme for the transfer of the existing licensee’s
     property, rights and liabilities has, upon its coming into
     force, effect in accordance with its provisions and without
     further assurance, so as to transfer the property, rights and
     liabilities to which the scheme relates to the new licensee.

                                                                    [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order

 27H.—(1) Without limiting sections 27B, 27C and 27D, a special
administration order in relation to a relevant entity that is not a
licensee may provide for the following matters:

       (a) the transfer to one or more prescribed transferees (which
            may or may not be the appointed person) of the following
            (whichever is applicable):

               (i) the property, rights and liabilities of the relevant
                   entity; or

              (ii) in the case of a relevant entity that is a business
                   trust — the property of the business trust, and the
                   rights held and the liabilities incurred by the trustee-
                   manager of the business trust in its capacity as
                   trustee-manager of the business trust;

       (b) matters that are consequential or related to any such
            transfer.

 (2) If the Minister makes a special administration order providing
for any matter mentioned in subsection (1), the Minister must, by
notification in the Gazette, establish a scheme within the following
period for determining the amount of any compensation payable by
the prescribed transferee to the relevant entity or the trustee-manager
or unitholders of the business trust (as the case may be) for the
transfer of the property, rights and liabilities:

       (a) 6 months after the date of the making of the special
            administration order;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
93  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (b) any longer period after the date of the making of the special
         administration order, as agreed between the prescribed
         transferee and the relevant entity or trustee-manager.

(3) A scheme established under subsection (2) may provide for —

    (a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
         to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
         dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
         when making valuations;

    (b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
         appointed by the Minister; and

    (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.

 (4) In this section, “prescribed transferee” means the Authority or a
person nominated by the Minister.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations for this Part

 27I. The Minister may make regulations under section 45 for giving
effect to this Part, including —

       (a) regulations for prescribing any requirements of any
            scheme for a transfer for the purposes of section 27G;

       (b) regulations providing any supplemental, consequential and
            transitional provisions for the purposes of, or in connection
            with, a scheme for a transfer mentioned in section 27G;

       (c) regulations governing the transfer of property, rights and
            liabilities of or in relation to a relevant entity mentioned in
            section 27H(1)(a) and matters consequential or related to
            such transfer; and

       (d) if a special administration order is made, regulations for
            applying, omitting or modifying the provisions of Parts 7
            and 9 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
            2018.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           94

                    PART 5

                    APPEALS

Appeal to Minister

 28.—(1) Any licensee aggrieved by any of the following matters
may appeal to the Minister:

(a) any condition imposed by the Authority under
     section 15(1)(f) or (g) or (2);

(b) any addition, deletion or modification of the terms or
     conditions of its licence under section 16;

          (c) any code of practice as issued, approved or modified by the
              Authority under section 17;

(d) any direction given by the Authority under section 18 or
     18A;

          (e) any decision made by the Authority under section 19(1)(i),
              (j) or (k);

          (f) any confirmed provisional order under section 19A;

(g) the refusal of the Authority to renew its licence.

 (2) Any person who is aggrieved by any of the following decisions
of the Authority may appeal to the Minister against the decision:

(a) any decision to designate an entity under section 21E;

(b) any refusal to grant an approval required under
     section 21G, 21H or 21I;

          (c) any decision to impose, add to or vary any condition under
              section 21G, 21H or 21I;

(d) any decision to issue a direction under section 21M, 21O or
     21P or to vary a direction under section 21Q(2).

 (3) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made within the prescribed
period after the date of receipt of the notice relating to the matter or
decision to which the appeal relates.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
95  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

 (4) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (3).

(5) After consideration of an appeal, the Minister may —

    (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Authority’s decision; or

    (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the Authority’s
         decision including, in the case of an appeal by a licensee
         under subsection (1), by amending any licence condition,
         code of practice or direction affecting the licensee.

(6) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (7) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (5).

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Effect of pending appeal to Minister

 29.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (2) or section 16(5) or
unless the Minister otherwise directs —

       (a) an appeal under section 28 against the Authority’s decision
            does not affect the operation of any licence term or
            condition, code of practice, direction, decision or
            confirmed provisional order being appealed against or
            prevent the taking of action to implement the licence term
            or condition, code of practice, direction, decision or
            confirmed provisional order; and

       (b) the licence term or condition, code of practice, direction,
            decision or confirmed provisional order appealed against
            must be complied with by the appellant until the
            determination of the appeal.

 (2) If any appeal under section 28(1) is made in relation to a notice
under section 19(1)(k) requiring the payment of a financial penalty
and the financial penalty would have been payable before the time
when the appeal is determined, it need not be paid until that time.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           96

Designation of others to hear appeals

 30. The Minister may designate any Minister of State, Senior
Minister of State, Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
Secretary for his or her Ministry, to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under section 28;
and any reference in that section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Minister of State, Senior Minister of State, Parliamentary
Secretary or Senior Parliamentary Secretary so designated for that
appeal.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 31. to 35. [Omitted as spent]

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

No remedy except under Land Transport Authority of
Singapore Act 1995

 36. No action, claim or proceedings shall lie or be brought against
the Authority or any other person —

       (a) to restrain the doing of anything which is authorised by or
            under this Act or to compel the doing of anything which
            may be omitted to be done thereunder; or

       (b) to recover damages, compensation or costs for —

               (i) damage or disturbance to or loss of or in the value of
                   any land, chattel, trade or business;

              (ii) personal disturbance or inconvenience;

             (iii) extinguishment, modification or restriction of rights;
                   or

             (iv) effecting or complying with any requirement or
                   condition imposed by the Authority,

       (b) which is authorised by or under this Act or arises from any
            act or omission so authorised, except pursuant to one of the
            rights to compensation provided for in the Land Transport
            Authority of Singapore Act 1995.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
97  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Advisory guidelines

 36A.—(1) The Authority may make guidelines with a view to
providing guidance or certainty in respect of any one or more of the
provisions in this Act.

(2) Advisory guidelines, for example, may be made about —

    (a) what amounts to a material function of a designated
         operating entity for the purposes of section 21J(1)(a); or

    (b) the relevant principles to consider in determining what
         amounts to a material impediment to or impairment of the
         operations of a designated operating entity for the purposes
         of section 21J(3)(a).

 (3) The Authority may make different advisory guidelines under
subsection (1) in respect of different persons or entities or different
classes of persons or entities.

(4) The Authority must —

    (a) give a copy of each advisory guideline it makes to the
         Minister; and

    (b) publish each advisory guideline (in any way that the
         Authority thinks fit), send each advisory guideline to each
         person or entity to whom the guideline applies (by any
         mode the Authority thinks fit), or both.

 (5) Despite subsection (4)(b), the Authority must publish each
advisory guideline (in any way that the Authority thinks fit) if the
advisory guideline has any effect on the rights of any person or entity
other than the person or entity to which the advisory guideline
applies.

 (6) The failure to comply with subsection (4) or (5) in respect of any
advisory guidelines does not invalidate the advisory guidelines.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           98

Service of documents

 37.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act, or any regulations made under this Act, to be served on a person
may be served as described in this section.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

(a) by giving it to the individual personally;

(b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
     specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
     if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
     address or business address;

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult person apparently residing there, or at the
              individual’s business address with an adult person
              apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;

          (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
              individual as the fax number for the service of documents
              under this Act;

          (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address;

(g) by giving an electronic notice to the individual by the
     individual’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
     document is available and how the individual may use the
     individual’s chosen means of access to access the
     document’s contents; or

       (h) by any other method authorised by regulations made under
            section 45 for the service of documents of that kind if the
            individual consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of a
            document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
99  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other like officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address;

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address;

    (e) by giving an electronic notice to the partnership by the
        partnership’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
        document is available and how the partnership may use the
        partnership’s chosen means of access to access the
        document’s contents; or

        (f) by any other method authorised by regulations made under
            section 45 for the service of documents of that kind if the
            partnership consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of
            a document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other like officer of the body
         corporate or unincorporated association, or the limited
         liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore;

    (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
         unincorporated association’s email address;

    (e) by giving an electronic notice to the body corporate or
        unincorporated association by the body corporate’s or
        unincorporated association’s chosen means of notification,
        stating that the document is available and how the body

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           100

          corporate or unincorporated association (as the case may
          be) may use its chosen means of access to access the
          document’s contents; or

        (f) by any other method authorised by regulations made under
            section 45 for the service of documents of that kind if the
            body corporate or unincorporated association (as the case
            may be) consents (expressly or impliedly) to service of a
            document of that kind in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (5) Service of a document on a person under this section takes
effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of the
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, on the
            second day after the day the document was posted (even if
            it is returned undelivered).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act, or any
regulations made under this Act, on a person by email or by an
electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of notification may be
effected only with the person’s prior consent (express or implied) to
service in that way.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court for an offence or other matter under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (8) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
101  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
          liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
          last known place of business in Singapore;

     “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
        be served a document permitted or required by this Act, or
        any regulations made under this Act, means an electronic
        means the addressee agrees with the person giving or serving
        the document as the means by which the addressee may
        access that document’s contents;

     “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
        is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
        or any regulations made under this Act, means an electronic
        means that the addressee nominates to the person giving or
        serving the document as the means by which the addressee
        may be notified that such a document has been served on the
        addressee;

     “email address” means the last email address given by the
        addressee concerned as the email address for the service of
        documents under this Act, or any regulations made under this
        Act;

     “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
        place of residence in Singapore.

                                                                                                        [38/2018]

Certain statements to be conclusive

 38. Where it is stated by the Authority in a notice under section 5, 8,
9, 10 or 11 that the entry or the work therein described or required to
be carried out is, in the opinion of the Authority, necessary or required
for the construction, operation, maintenance or improvement of any
railway, then such statement is to be accepted by all courts, tribunals
and persons as conclusive evidence of the truth of the fact so stated.

Power to require evidence of identity in certain cases

 39.—(1) Any police officer or employee of the Authority who
reasonably believes that any person has committed an offence under
this Act may require the person to furnish evidence of his or her

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           102

identity and the person must then furnish such evidence of his or her
identity as may be required by the police officer or employee of the
Authority.

 (2) Any person who refuses to furnish any information required of
the person by any police officer or any employee of the Authority
under subsection (1) or wilfully misstates that information shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $500.

Powers of arrest

 40.—(1) A police officer, or any employee of the Authority
generally or specially authorised in writing by the Chief Executive
of the Authority, may arrest without warrant any person found
committing or whom he or she has reason to believe has committed
an offence punishable under this Act.

 (2) A person arrested under subsection (1) must not be detained
longer than is necessary for bringing the person before a court unless
the order of court for the person’s continued detention is obtained.

Authorised employees of licensee, etc., to exercise certain
powers of Authority’s employees

 41.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, in
writing authorise any licensee or employee of a licensee to exercise
all or any of the powers of an employee of the Authority under this
Act subject to such conditions or limitations as the Authority may
specify.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (2) This section does not affect the operation of sections 11 and 11A
of the Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995, and the
authorisation under those sections of outsourced enforcement officers
to exercise all or any of the powers of an employee of the Authority
under this Act (but not powers under section 23B).

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

Protection from personal liability

 41A. No liability shall lie against any member, officer or employee
of the Authority or any other person acting under the direction of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
103  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

Authority for anything done or intended to be done with reasonable
care and in good faith in the execution or purported execution of this
Act.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

Jurisdiction of courts

 42. Despite the provisions of any written law to the contrary, a
District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and award the full punishment for such
offence.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 43.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.     Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                        104

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate — means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership) — means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of such a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with any modifications
that the Minister considers appropriate, to any body corporate or
unincorporated association formed or recognised under the law of a
territory outside Singapore.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Composition of offences

 44.—(1) The Chief Executive, or any officer of the Authority who
is authorised by the Chief Executive, may compound any offence
under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
105               Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995              2020 Ed.

collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having committed
the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

     (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
          prescribed for the offence;

     (b) $5,000.

                                                              [21/2010]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing the offences which may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [25/2020]

Power to amend Schedule

 44A. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the
Schedule.

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations

 45.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for or in respect of every purpose which is
considered by the Authority necessary or expedient for carrying out
the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may make
regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) controlling and regulating —

               (i) the maintenance and operation of any railway;

              (ii) the work and conduct of the employees of the
                   Authority;

             (iii) the conduct of members of the public using a railway
                   or on railway premises;

             (iv) a system for evidencing (whether by the issue of
                   tickets or otherwise) the payment of fares on a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
2020 Ed.  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           106

          railway and any contract of carriage of passengers
          thereon;

          (v) advertising on railway premises;

          (vi) the custody and disposal of property found on
               railway premises; and

          (vii) any activity which may damage a railway or railway
                premises or may endanger the safety of any person
                travelling on or upon the railway or railway
                premises;

(b) providing for the safety of persons using or engaged in
     work on any railway;

          (c) prescribing the terms and conditions relating to the use of
              railway premises;

(d) protecting the property of the Authority on railway
     premises;

(da) [Deleted by Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          (e) reporting to the Authority of accidents on any part of a
              railway operated by a licensee, and investigating into such
              accidents;

                                                                              [Act 36 of 2018 wef 01/01/2024]

          (f) prescribing the powers and duties of inspectors appointed
              for the purposes of Part 4 for the administration and
              enforcement of that Part; and

       (g) prescribing the fees to be paid in connection with the
            administration of this Act, and the waiver, reduction or
            refund of fees charged.

                                                                                                [21/2010; 38/2018]

 (3) In subsection (2)(a)(iii), (v), (vi) and (vii), (c) and (d), “railway
premises” includes a bicycle parking facility or vehicle set down
facility adjoining those railway premises.

                                                                                                           [38/2018]

 (4) The Authority may, in making any regulations, provide that any
contravention of, or failure or neglect to comply with, any regulations
shall be an offence and may prescribe the fine with which such

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
107  Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995                           2020 Ed.

offence shall be punishable but so that no such fine shall exceed for
any one offence the sum of $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing
offence, a further sum of $100 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Exemption

 45A. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
order in the Gazette, exempt any person from all or any of the
provisions (or any part of any provision) of this Act.

                                                                                                           [21/2010]

                                                                               [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Transitional provisions

 46. Any railway set up under the repealed Act is deemed to
constitute or form part of a rapid transit system set up under this Act.

                                                                               [47

                             THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2 and 44A

                          SERVICES FOR PURPOSES OF
                      PARAGRAPH (b) OF DEFINITION OF
                      “ESSENTIAL TRANSPORT SERVICE”

1. Monitoring and management of any rapid transit system.

                                                                             [Act 20 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS ACT 1995

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                           PART 1
      PROVISIONAL MASS RAPID TRANSIT

                AUTHORITY ACT, 1980
                    (ACT 18 OF 1980)

1. Act 18 of 1980 — Provisional Mass Rapid Transit Authority Act, 1980

Bill           : 9/1980

First Reading  : 5 March 1980

Second and Third Readings : 25 March 1980

Commencement   : 25 July 1980

                               PART 2
      MASS RAPID TRANSIT CORPORATION ACT

        (CHAPTER 172, 1988 REVISED EDITION)

2. Act 13 of 1983 — Mass Rapid Transit Corporation Act 1983

Bill           : 7/1983

First Reading  : 23 March 1983

Second and Third Readings : 30 August 1983

Commencement   : 14 October 1983

3. Act 2 of 1986 — Statute Law Revision Act 1986
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Act)

Bill           : 12/1985

First Reading  : 31 October 1985

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
               ii

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 1986

Commencement   : 31 January 1986 (section 2 read with
                     the First Schedule) (section 2 read
                     with the First Schedule) (section 2
                     read with the First Schedule)
                     (section 2 read with the First
                     Schedule)

4. Act 7 of 1986 — Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (Amendment) Act 1986

Bill           : 11/1985

First Reading  : 31 October 1985

Second and Third Readings : 10 January 1986

Commencement   : 31 January 1986

5. 1985 Revised Edition — Mass Rapid Transit Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 172)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

6. Act 17 of 1987 — Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (Amendment) Act
                           1987

Bill           : 10/1987

First Reading  : 20 May 1987

Second and Third Readings : 28 July 1987

Commencement   : 14 August 1987

7. 1988 Revised Edition — Mass Rapid Transit Corporation Act
                                    (Chapter 172)

Operation      : 30 April 1988

8. Act 6 of 1990 — Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (Amendment) Act 1990

Bill           : 4/1990

First Reading  : 26 February 1990

Second and Third Readings : 28 March 1990

Commencement   : 21 April 1990

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                      iii

                                   PART 3
               RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS ACT 1995

                       (2020 REVISED EDITION)

9. Act 29 of 1995 — Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995

Bill                  : 25/1995

First Reading         : 7 July 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 August 1995

Commencement          : 1 September 1995

10. 1996 Revised Edition — Rapid Transit Systems Act (Chapter 263A)

Operation             : 30 April 1996

11. Act 3 of 1998 — Planning Act 1998
     (Amendments made by section 65 read with item (8) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/1997

First Reading         : 19 November 1997

Second Reading        : 14 January 1998

Notice of Amendments  : 14 January 1998

Third Reading         : 14 January 1998

Commencement          : 1 April 1998 (section 65 read with
                            item (8) of the Second Schedule)
                            (section 65 read with item (8) of the
                            Second Schedule) (section 65 read
                            with item (8) of the Second Schedule)
                            (section 65 read with item (8) of the
                            Second Schedule)

12. Act 41 of 2002 — Rapid Transit Systems (Amendment) Act 2002

Bill                  : 33/2002

First Reading         : 1 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 25 November 2002

Commencement          : 13 December 2002

13. 2004 Revised Edition — Rapid Transit Systems Act (Chapter 263A)

Operation             : 31 July 2004

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
               iv

14. Act 21 of 2010 — Rapid Transit Systems (Amendment) Act 2010

Bill           : 16/2010

First Reading  : 19 July 2010

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2010

Commencement   : 13 September 2010

15. Act 9 of 2014 — Rapid Transit Systems (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill           : 5/2014

First Reading  : 20 January 2014

Second and Third Readings : 17 February 2014

Commencement   : 25 March 2014

16. Act 11 of 2015 — State Lands (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 9 of the above Act)

Bill           : 6/2015

First Reading  : 12 February 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement   : 8 May 2015 (section 9) (section 9)
                     (section 9) (section 9)

17. Act 12 of 2015 — Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 12 of the above Act)

Bill           : 7/2015

First Reading  : 12 February 2015

Second and Third Readings : 13 March 2015

Commencement   : 8 May 2015 (section 12) (section 12)
                     (section 12) (section 12)

18. Act 31 of 2015 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 25 of the above Act)

Bill           : 27/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement   : 22 January 2016 (section 25(a))
                     (section 25(a)) (section 25(a))
                     (section 25(a))
                     1 April 2016 (section 25(b))

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                         v

                            (section 25(b)) (section 25(b))
                            (section 25(b))

19. Act 38 of 2018 — Land Transport (Enforcement Measures) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by Part 5 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 29/2018

First Reading            : 6 August 2018

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2018

Commencement             : 2 January 2019 (sections 49, 50, 52,
                               53, 54) (sections 49, 50, 52, 53, 54)
                               (sections 49, 50, 52, 53, 54)
                               (sections 49, 50, 52, 53, 54)
                               3 June 2019 (section 51) (section 51)
                               (section 51) (section 51)

20. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 505 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 32/2018

First Reading            : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement             : 30 July 2020 (section 505)
                               (section 505) (section 505)
                               (section 505)

21. Act 21 of 2018 — Cross-Border Railways Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 80 of the above Act)

Bill                     : 43/2017

First Reading            : 3 October 2017

Second Reading           : 6 November 2017

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 13 of 2018

Third Reading            : 19 March 2018

Commencement             : 14 September 2020 (section 80)
                               (section 80) (section 80) (section 80)

22. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 15(13) of the above Act)

Bill                     : 45/2020

First Reading            : 3 November 2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
               vi

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 March 2021 (section 15(13))
                     (section 15(13)) (section 15(13))
                     (section 15(13))

23. Act 25 of 2020 — Small Motorised Vehicles (Safety) Act 2020
     (Amendments made by section 30 of the above Act)

Bill           : 21/2020

First Reading  : 4 May 2020

Second and Third Readings : 26 May 2020

Commencement   : 1 April 2021 (section 30) (section 30)
                     (section 30) (section 30)

24. Act 12 of 2021 — Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 31 of the above Act)

Bill           : 8/2021

First Reading  : 5 April 2021

Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2021

Commencement   : 30 September 2021 (section 31)
                     (section 31) (section 31) (section 31)

25. 2020 Revised Edition — Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995

Operation      : 31 December 2021

26. Act 36 of 2018 — Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018

Bill           : 28/2018

First Reading  : 10 July 2018

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2018

Commencement   : 1 January 2024

27. Act 20 of 2024 — Transport Sector (Critical Firms) Act 2024

Bill           : 16/2024

First Reading  : 25 April 2024

Second and Third Readings : 8 May 2024

Commencement   : 1 April 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
               vii

28. Act 5 of 2026 — Land Transport and Related Matters Act 2026
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 1/2026

First Reading  : 12 January 2026

Second and Third Readings : 5 February 2026

Commencement   : 4 May 2026

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
         COMPARATIVE TABLE
RAPID TRANSIT SYSTEMS ACT 1995

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2004 Ed.
—                          5—(3) [Deleted by Act 12 of 2015]
5—(3)
                              (4)
   (4)                        (5)
   (5)                        (5A)
   (6)                        (5B)
   (7)                        (6)
19—(2)                     19—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (2A)
   (5)                        (2B)
   (6)                        (3)
20—(3)                     20—(2A)
   (4)                        (3)
   (5)                        (4)
44—(2)                     44—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (3)
45—(3)                     45—(2A)
   (4)                        (3)
—                          46 [Repealed by Act 21 of 2018]
46                         47—(1)
[Omitted as spent]            (2)
[Omitted as spent]            (3)
[Omitted as spent]            (4)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                 2020 Ed.  ii
—
[Omitted as spent]                            2004 Ed.
                                (5) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
                                (6)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
