THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
          LIFELONG LEARNING ENDOWMENT
                          FUND ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

Lifelong Learning Endowment
         Fund Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

             LIFELONG LEARNING ENDOWMENT FUND

3. Establishment of Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund
4. Capital money of Endowment Fund
5. Objects and application of income of Endowment Fund
6. Advisory Council

                                        PART 3

                    GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

 7. Expenses
 8. Financial year of Endowment Fund
 9. Accounts
10. No payment unless authorised by Minister
11. Appointment, powers and duties of auditor
12. Failure to furnish information to auditor
13. Presentation of annual report, financial statements and auditor’s

         report to Parliament

                                        PART 4
                       MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

14. Making of false statement, etc.
15. Offences by body corporate, etc.
16. Composition of offences

                                                      1

                                                         31.12.2021
   Lifelong Learning Endowment

2  Fund Act 2001                             2020 Ed.

Section

   17. Regulations
            The Schedule — Advisory Council

An Act to provide for the establishment of a Lifelong Learning
  Endowment Fund and for purposes connected therewith.

                                                              [12 March 2001]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund Act 2001.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Council” means the Advisory Council established under
         section 6;
      “Endowment Fund” means the Lifelong Learning Endowment
         Fund established under section 3.

                                    PART 2

           LIFELONG LEARNING ENDOWMENT FUND

Establishment of Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund

 3.—(1) A fund called the Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund is
established, into which must be paid —

       (a) all capital money appropriated from time to time from the
            Consolidated Fund and authorised to be paid into the
            Endowment Fund by this Act or any other written law;

       (b) all gifts or bequests given or made for the purposes of the
            Endowment Fund; and
          Lifelong Learning Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2001                3

          (c) the net income from investments of capital money in the
              Endowment Fund.

 (2) The Minister is responsible for the administration of the
Endowment Fund and all moneys belonging to the Fund may be
deposited in any bank and invested in any investment authorised
under the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

 (3) The Endowment Fund must be regarded as a Government fund
and as comprising public moneys for the purposes of any other
written law.

Capital money of Endowment Fund

 4.—(1) The Minister for Finance may, from time to time, pay into
the Endowment Fund any sums of capital money that the Minister
may determine out of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

 (2) Despite the terms of any gift or bequest, all gifts and bequests
given or made for the purposes of the Endowment Fund must be paid
into the Fund as capital money.

 (3) The capital money of the Endowment Fund must not be used for
any purpose other than for investment.

 (4) Where at any time there is a permanent diminution of the capital
money of the Endowment Fund, the Minister must, before paying out
any income of the Fund, make good the diminution from the income
of the Fund.

Objects and application of income of Endowment Fund

 5.—(1) The objects for which the income of the Endowment Fund
may be applied are —

       (a) the acquisition of skills and expertise by persons, and the
            development and upgrading of skills and expertise of
            persons, to enhance their employability; and

       (b) the promotion of the acquisition, development and
            upgrading of skills and expertise to enhance the
            employability of persons.

                                       31.12.2021
   Lifelong Learning Endowment

4  Fund Act 2001                2020 Ed.

 (2) In carrying out the objects of the Endowment Fund, the Minister
may, from time to time, authorise the income of the Fund to be paid
out and expended for all or any of the following purposes:

   (a) the provision of financial assistance or incentives to
        persons to acquire, develop or upgrade, whether in
        Singapore or elsewhere, skills and expertise to enhance
        their employability;

   (b) the research or development, whether in Singapore or
        elsewhere, in or of learning methods and technology to
        enhance the acquisition, development or upgrading of such
        skills and expertise;

   (c) the promotion of the acquisition, development or
       upgrading of such skills and expertise;

   (d) the provision of financial assistance or incentives to
        persons to carry out, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
        activities or programmes which are consistent with the
        objects of the Fund;

   (e) the establishment, expansion or maintenance of facilities,
       whether in Singapore or elsewhere, to be used for purposes
       consistent with the objects of the Fund;

   (f) any other purposes consistent with the objects of the Fund
       (whether carried out in Singapore or elsewhere) that are
       prescribed.

Advisory Council
 6.—(1) For the purpose of advising the Minister on the application

of the income of the Endowment Fund, an Advisory Council is
established, comprising such members as the Minister may appoint.

 (2) The Minister must appoint one of the members as chairperson.

 (3) The Schedule has effect with respect to the Council.
          Lifelong Learning Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2001                 5

          PART 3

          GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Expenses

 7. All expenses incurred in connection with the administration of
the Endowment Fund, including the cost of auditing the accounts of
the Fund, must be defrayed out of the income of the Fund.

Financial year of Endowment Fund

 8. The financial year of the Endowment Fund begins on 1 April of
each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Accounts

 9.—(1) The Minister must cause to be kept proper accounts and
records of all transactions and affairs relating to the Endowment Fund
and must do all things necessary to ensure that all payments out of the
Fund are correctly made and properly authorised and that adequate
control is maintained over the assets and receipts of the Fund.

 (2) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of each
financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted financial
statements in respect of that year to the auditor of the Endowment
Fund.

No payment unless authorised by Minister

 10. A payment must not be made out of the Endowment Fund
unless the payment is authorised by the Minister.

Appointment, powers and duties of auditor

 11.—(1) The accounts of the Endowment Fund must be audited by
the Auditor-General or any other auditor that may be appointed
annually by the Minister after consulting the Auditor-General.

 (2) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (1) unless the person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967.

 (3) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor is entitled at
all reasonable times to full and free access to all accounting and other

                                        31.12.2021
   Lifelong Learning Endowment

6  Fund Act 2001                                         2020 Ed.

records relating, directly or indirectly, to the financial transactions of
the Endowment Fund and may make copies of, or extracts from, any
such accounting and other records.

   (4) The auditor must state in the auditor’s report —

   (a) whether the financial statements show fairly the financial
        transactions and the state of affairs of the Endowment
        Fund;

   (b) whether proper accounting and other records have been
        kept, including records of all assets of the Endowment
        Fund;

   (c) whether receipts, expenditure, and investment of moneys
       and the acquisition and disposal of assets on account of the
       Endowment Fund during the financial year were in
       accordance with the provisions of this Act; and

         (d) such other matters arising from the audit as the auditor
              considers necessary.

   (5) The auditor must —

   (a) as soon as practicable after the accounts have been
        submitted for audit, send a report of the audit to the
        Minister; and

   (b) submit such periodical and special reports to the Minister
        as may appear to the auditor to be necessary or as the
        Minister may require.

 (6) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of the Endowment
Fund, a copy of the audited financial statements and any report made
by the auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor-General.

Failure to furnish information to auditor

 12.—(1) The auditor or any person authorised by the auditor (called
in this section the authorised person) may require any person to
furnish the auditor or authorised person with such information in the
possession of that person required or to which that person required
has access as the auditor considers necessary for the purposes of the
auditor’s functions under this Act.
          Lifelong Learning Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2001                7

 (2) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with any requirement of the auditor under subsection (1) or who
otherwise hinders, obstructs or delays the auditor in the performance
of the auditor’s duties or the exercise of the auditor’s powers shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

Presentation of annual report, financial statements and
auditor’s report to Parliament

 13. The Minister must, as soon as practicable, cause an annual
report in respect of the administration of the Endowment Fund during
the preceding financial year to be prepared and must present a copy of
the annual report and of the audited financial statements and the
auditor’s report to Parliament.

                                    PART 4

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Making of false statement, etc.
 14. Any person who for any purpose connected with this Act —

       (a) knowingly makes any false statement to the Minister or a
            person authorised by the Minister or to the auditor or a
            person authorised by the auditor; or

       (b) produces or furnishes or causes or knowingly allows to be
            produced or furnished to the Minister or a person
            authorised by the Minister or to the auditor or a person
            authorised by the auditor, any document which the person
            knows to be false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

Offences by body corporate, etc.
 15.—(1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a

body corporate, a partnership, or an unincorporated association of
persons, any person who, at the time of the commission of the
offence, was a director, manager, partner, secretary or other similar

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   Lifelong Learning Endowment

8  Fund Act 2001                2020 Ed.

officer thereof, or was purporting to act in any such capacity, shall
also be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly unless the person proves that —

   (a) the offence was committed without the person’s consent or
        connivance; and

   (b) the person had exercised all such diligence to prevent the
        commission of the offence as the person ought to have
        exercised having regard to the nature of the person’s
        functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

 (2) In relation to a body corporate whose affairs are managed by its
members, “director” means a member of a body corporate.

Composition of offences

 16.—(1) The Minister or any person authorised by the Minister
may compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum of money not
exceeding $500.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Regulations

 17. The Minister may make such regulations as are necessary or
expedient for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act,
and, in particular, the regulations may —

       (a) prescribe the procedure for payments out of the
            Endowment Fund;

       (b) provide for matters relating to applications for funds,
            financial assistance or incentives;

       (c) prescribe the procedure of the Council; and

       (d) prescribe anything which may be prescribed under this
            Act.
          Lifelong Learning Endowment

2020 Ed.  Fund Act 2001                9

          THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 6(3)

                                  ADVISORY COUNCIL
 1.—(1) Subject to this paragraph, every member of the Council must hold and
vacate his or her office in accordance with the terms of his or her appointment and
is, on ceasing to be a member, eligible for re-appointment.
 (2) Any member of the Council may resign his or her office at any time by
giving written notice to the Minister.
 (3) If the Minister is satisfied that a member of the Council —

        (a) is guilty of neglect of duty or misconduct;
        (b) has become bankrupt or made an arrangement with his or her creditors;
        (c) is incapacitated by physical or mental illness; or
        (d) is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a member,
the Minister may remove the member from office.

 2. The validity of any proceedings of the Council is not affected by any vacancy
among the members or by any defect in the appointment of any member.

 3. At any meeting of the Council, one-half of the number of members constitutes
a quorum.

 4. The arrangements relating to meetings of the Council must be determined by
the Council.

 5. The chairperson presides at all meetings of the Council at which the
chairperson is present and, in the chairperson’s absence, the members present
must elect one of their number to act as chairperson of that meeting.

 6. All questions arising at any meeting of the Council must be decided by a
majority of votes of the members present and, in the case of an equality of votes,
the chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote.

 7. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council may regulate its own
procedure in such manner as it thinks fit.

                                       31.12.2021
                       LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

              LIFELONG LEARNING ENDOWMENT
                            FUND ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 1 of 2001 — Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund Act 2001

       Bill                          : 37/2000

       First Reading                 : 22 November 2000

       Second and Third Readings : 12 January 2001

       Commencement                  : 12 March 2001

2. 2002 Revised Edition — Lifelong Learning Endowment Fund Act
                                    (Chapter 162A)

       Operation                     : 31 July 2002

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                     31.12.2021
          COMPARATIVE TABLE

LIFELONG LEARNING ENDOWMENT
              FUND ACT 2001

 This Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding
provisions in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.          2002 Ed.
[Omitted as spent]
4—(1)                      4—(1)
                              (2)
   (2)                        (3)
   (3)                        (4)
   (4)                        (5)

                                             31.12.2021
