THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  BROADCASTING ACT 1994

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
                                                                        2020 Ed.

          Broadcasting Act 1994

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
     1.   Interpretation
     2.   Meanings of “online communication service” and associated
     2A.  terms
          Amendment of Fourth Schedule
     2B.  Transitional arrangements for former licensable broadcasting
     2C.  service
          Meaning of “provider” of online communication service
     2D.

                                       PART 2
               PROVISIONS RELATING TO AUTHORITY

3. Directions by Minister
4. Exclusion of liability of Authority for act or default of licensees

                                       PART 3

                             LICENSING SCHEME

5. Power of Authority to grant licences
6. Codes of Practice
7. Restriction on transfer of licences

                                        PART 4

                          BROADCASTING SERVICES

 8. Licensing of broadcasting services
 9. Class licences
10. Modification of broadcasting licence conditions
11. Modification of class licence conditions
12. Suspension or cancellation of broadcasting licence, etc.
13. Compliance with Codes of Practice, etc.

                                                      1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                         2

Section   Free-to-air broadcasting services
          Submission of broadcasting material to Authority
   14.    Directions of Authority
   15.    Public service broadcasting services
   16.    General requirements in respect of public service programmes
   17.    “Must carry” provision
   18.
   19.

                                        PART 5

                        BROADCASTING APPARATUS

20. Licensing of broadcasting apparatus
21. Application of certain provisions of Act to broadcasting

         apparatus licences

                                        PART 6

                            FREQUENCY PLANNING

22. Frequency planning criteria
23. [Repealed]
24. Separate licence for use of frequency not required

                                        PART 7

                        BROADCASTING CONDITIONS

25. Transmission area requirements
26. Sharing of facilities
27. Inspection and testing of broadcasting apparatus
28. Provision of building space, etc., by developer or owner of

         building or land

                                        PART 8
                   FOREIGN BROADCASTING SERVICES

29. Orders proscribing unacceptable foreign broadcasting services
30. Offence of supporting proscribed foreign broadcasting services

                                        PART 9
          DECLARED FOREIGN BROADCASTING SERVICES
31. Declared foreign broadcasting services

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
3        Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

         PART 10

   OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OF BROADCASTING COMPANIES

Section  Application of this Part to broadcasting company
   32.   Special features of broadcasting company
   33.   Application and interpretation of this section and sections 35
   34.   to 42
         Control of substantial shareholdings in broadcasting companies
   35.   Control of shareholdings and voting power in broadcasting
   36.   companies
         Approval of applications
   37.   [Repealed]
   38.   Objection to existing control of broadcasting company
   39.   Power to make directions
   40.   Offences, penalties and defences
   41.   Power to obtain information
   42.   Funds from foreign source for purposes of certain broadcasting
   43.   service
         Broadcasting company owned by foreign source
   44.   Appeal under this Part
   45.

                                         PART 10A

            ONLINE COMMUNICATION SERVICE REGULATION

                         Division 1 — Scope and key concepts

   45A. Purpose
   45B. Application
   45C. When content is provided or communicated on online

            communication service
   45D. Meaning of “egregious content”

                 Division 2 — Offences involving egregious content

   45E. Offence of not stopping egregious content on online
            communication service

   45F. Offence of not stopping access to online communication service
   45G. Defence
   45H. Section 45H direction
   45I. Section 45I blocking direction
   45J. Duty to comply

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                             4

          Division 3 — Regulated online communication services

Section   Regulated online communication service
   45K.   Online Code of Practice for regulated online communication
   45L.   service
          Duty of regulated online communication service provider
   45M.   Regulatory action
   45N.   Procedure for regulatory action under section 45N
   45O.

          Division 4 — Administrative and general provisions

45P.      Regulations
45Q.      Incorporation by reference
45R.      Interface with other laws and civil liability
45S.      Modification of section 50
45T.      Interpretation of this Part

          PART 11

          OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

46.       Offences relating to licensable broadcasting services
47.       Offences relating to installation, sale, import or possession of
          broadcasting apparatus
48.       Offences relating to unauthorised decoders and unauthorised
          reception of encrypted programmes
48A.      Civil action in relation to unauthorised decoders and decoded
          programmes
49.       Offence of hindering employee or agent of Authority
50.       Power of Authority to requisition information
51.       Power of police officer and other authorised persons against
          unlicensed broadcasting service or apparatus
52.       Power of arrest and search
53.       No entitlement to costs or damages
54.       Offence against other laws
55.       Conduct of proceedings by officers
56.       Corporate offenders and unincorporated associations
57.       Composition of offences
58.       Jurisdiction of court

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
5        Broadcasting Act 1994                                      2020 Ed.

         PART 12

         MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Section  Appeal to Minister
         Exemption
   59.   Equipment of licensee not subject to distress, etc.
   60.   International dealings of Authority
   61.   Government’s right to determine international relations
   62.   Service of documents
   63.   Financial penalties, etc., payable to Consolidated Fund
   64.   Amendment of First, Second and Third Schedules
   64A.  Regulations
   65.   [Repealed]
   66.   Transitional and saving provisions
   67.   First Schedule — Broadcasting apparatus
   68.   Second Schedule — Licensable broadcasting services
         Third Schedule — Relevant licensable broadcasting service
         Fourth Schedule

An Act to regulate dealing in, the operation of and ownership in
  broadcasting services and broadcasting apparatus, to regulate
  online communication services accessible by Singapore end-
  users, and for matters connected therewith.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

                                                              [1 October 1994]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Broadcasting Act 1994.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.        Broadcasting Act 1994                               6

Interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“a point” includes a mobile or potentially mobile point, whether
   on land, underground, in the atmosphere, underwater or
   anywhere else;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“access”, in relation to any content, means to read, view, hear or
   otherwise experience content, by means of a broadcasting
   service or an electronic service, and includes —

          (a) access that is subject to a precondition, such as the
               use of a password;

          (b) access by way of push technology;

          (c) access by way of a standing request; and

        (d) access for a limited period of time only;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“Authority” means the Info-communications Media
   Development Authority established by section 3 of the
   Info‑communications Media Development Authority
   Act 2016;

“broadcasting apparatus” means any apparatus capable of or
   designed or constructed for the reception of any broadcasting
   service and specified in the First Schedule;

“broadcasting apparatus licence” means a licence granted under
   section 20 in respect of broadcasting apparatus, and
   “broadcasting apparatus licensee” is to be construed
   accordingly;

“broadcasting licence” means a licence granted under section 8
   or 9 for the provision of a licensable broadcasting service,
   and “broadcasting licensee” is to be construed accordingly;

“broadcasting service” means a service whereby signs or signals
   transmitted (whether or not encrypted) comprise —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
7  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

   (a) any programme capable of being received, or
        received and displayed, as visual images, whether
        moving or still;

   (b) any sound programme for reception; or

   (c) any programme, being a combination of both visual
       image (whether moving or still) and sound for
       reception or reception and display,

   by persons having equipment appropriate for receiving or
   receiving and displaying (as the case may be) that service,
   irrespective of the means of delivery of that service;

   “Chief Executive”, in relation to the Authority, means the Chief
      Executive of the Authority appointed under section 40(1) of
      the Info-communications Media Development Authority
      Act 2016, and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

   “class licence” means a licence determined under section 9 to be
      applicable to certain licensable broadcasting services, and
      “class licensee” is to be construed accordingly;

   “Code of Practice” means a Code of Practice issued under this
      Act;

   “communicate”, in relation to any content, means —

   (a) to make available (by posting or otherwise); or

   (b) to distribute (by sharing or forwarding or otherwise),

      the content, regardless if the communication is between
      persons and persons, things and things or persons and things;

                                                                          [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

   “content” means information or material capable of
      communication by means of a broadcasting service or an
      electronic service —

   (a) whether in the form of text;

   (b) whether in the form of speech, music or other sounds;

   (c) whether in the form of visual images (animated or
       otherwise), pictorial or graphic form (for example, an
       anthropomorphic or a humanlike depiction);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     8

          (d) whether in any other form; or

        (e) whether in any combination of forms;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“debenture” includes debenture stock;

“dwelling house” includes a hotel, inn, boarding house or other
   similar establishment;

“electronic service” has the meaning given by section 2A(2);

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“encrypted” means treated electronically or otherwise to prevent
   intelligible reception;

“end-user”, in relation to an electronic service, means an
   individual who, or an entity that, and whether or not in the
   course of business —

          (a) has access to content or something which contains
               content; or

          (b) communicates content, or something which contains
               content,

   on or by means of the electronic service, but excludes a
   person who is prescribed by the Minister by order in the
   Gazette;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“engage in conduct” means —

          (a) to do an act or omit to do an act —

          (i) on a single occasion; or

          (ii) on a number of occasions over a period of time;
               or

          (b) to both do an act and omit to do an act —

          (i) on a single occasion; or

          (ii) on a number of occasions over a period of time;

                                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
9                    Broadcasting Act 1994                   2020 Ed.

   “entity” means —

   (a) a body corporate (including a limited liability
        partnership);

   (b) an unincorporated association;

   (c) a partnership;

   (d) a body politic;

   (e) a body of individuals who together form a body; or

           (f) a person other than an individual;

                                                                          [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

   “excluded electronic service” has the meaning given by
      section 2A(3);

                                                                          [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

   “free-to-air broadcasting service” means a licensable
      broadcasting service made available for reception in at
      least 2 dwelling houses by broadcasting apparatus commonly
      available to the public without payment of a subscription fee;

   “free-to-air licence” means a broadcasting licence granted under
      this Act for the operation of a free-to-air broadcasting
      service, and “free-to-air licensee” is to be construed
      accordingly;

   “internet access service” means a telecommunication service
      between a point in Singapore and another point in Singapore
      or between 2 points, one of which is in Singapore —

   (a) that —

   (i) enables end-users to access content on the
       Internet using that service; or

   (ii) delivers content to persons having equipment
        appropriate for receiving that content on the
        Internet, where the delivery of the service is by
        a telecommunication service described in
        sub‑paragraph (i); and

   (b) that is covered by a licence under the
        Telecommunications Act 1999,

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     10

   but excludes a social media service and any
   telecommunication service prescribed by the Minister by
   order in the Gazette as excluded from this definition;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“licence” means a licence granted under any provision of this
   Act, and “licensee” is to be construed accordingly;

“licensable broadcasting service” means any broadcasting
   service specified in the Second Schedule and is not and has
   never been an online communication service;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“member” means a member of the Authority;

“online Code of Practice” means a Code of Practice that is issued
   or amended under section 45L or amended under
   section 59(3) on appeal;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“online communication service” has the meaning given by
   section 2A(1);

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“Part 10A regulations” means regulations made under
   section 45P;

                                                                       [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

“programme”, in relation to a broadcasting service, means —

          (a) any matter the primary purpose of which is to
               entertain, educate or inform all or part of the
               public; or

          (b) any advertising or sponsorship matter, whether or not
               of a commercial kind,

          but does not include any matter that is wholly related to or
          connected with any private communication, that is to say —

          (c) any communication between 2 or more persons that
              is of a private or domestic nature;

          (d) any internal communication of a business,
               Government agency or other organisation for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
11  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    purpose of the operation of the business, agency or
    organisation; and

    (e) communications in such other circumstances as may
        be prescribed;

    “provider”, for an online communication service, has the
       meaning given by section 2D;

                                                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

    “regulated online communication service” means an online
       communication service that is designated under
       section 45K(1) as a regulated online communication service;

                                                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

    “regulations” means regulations made under this Act;

    “securities”, in relation to a company, includes shares,
       debentures, bonds and other securities of the company,
       whether or not constituting a charge on the assets of the
       company;

    “shares”, in relation to a company, means shares in, or stock
       forming part of, the capital of the company;

    “Singapore end-user”, in relation to an online communication
       service, means any of the following end-users of the service:

    (a) an individual physically present in Singapore;

    (b) an entity which —

    (i) is incorporated under any written law; or

                   (ii) is constituted or organised under a law of a
                        foreign country or territory but registered under
                        any written law;

                                                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

    “social media service” has the meaning given by section 45T;

                                                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

    “subscription broadcasting service” means a licensable
       broadcasting service made available to the audience for
       whom it is intended only upon the payment of a subscription
       fee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     12

“subscription fee” means any form of consideration.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, “part of the
public” includes —

(a) residents in a particular place;

(b) employees of any firm, company or organisation;

          (c) occupiers of a particular building or part of the building;
              and

(d) members of any profession, club or society.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a company is regarded as wholly
owned by the Government at any time when all the issued shares in
the company are held by or on behalf of the Government.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, whether any communication of
content by means of a broadcasting service or an online
communication service is or is not of a private or domestic nature
must be determined by having regard to all or any one of the
following factors:

(a) the number of individuals in Singapore who are able to
     access the content by means of the service;

(b) any restrictions on who may access the content by means
     of the service (such as a requirement for approval or
     permission from a user, or the provider, of the service);

          (c) the relationship between the persons that the content is
              being or has been communicated;

(d) any other relevant factor.

                                      [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

 (5) However, for the purposes of subsection (4), the following
factors do not count as restrictions on access to content
communicated by means of a broadcasting service or an online
communication service:

(a) a requirement to log in to or register with the broadcasting
     service or online communication service (or part of such a
     service);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
13  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) a requirement to make a payment or take out a subscription
         in order to access the broadcasting service or online
         communication service (or part of such a service) or to
         access particular content communicated by means of that
         service;

       (c) inability to access a broadcasting service or an online
            communication service (or part of such a service) or to
            access particular content communicated by means of that
            service except by using particular technology or a
            particular kind of device (as long as that technology or
            device is generally available to the public).

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

 (6) In determining for the purposes of this Act whether an end-user
is physically present in Singapore, it is to be assumed that the end-
user will not falsify or conceal the end-user’s identity or location.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Meanings of “online communication service” and associated
terms

 2A.—(1) In this Act, an online communication service means an
electronic service that is, or a part of an electronic service having the
characteristics that are, specified in the Fourth Schedule.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an electronic service means a
service —

       (a) that —

               (i) enables end-users to access or communicate content
                   on the Internet using that service, including a point-
                   to-multipoint service; or

              (ii) delivers content on the Internet to persons having
                   equipment appropriate for receiving that content,
                   where the delivery of the service is by a service
                   described in sub‑paragraph (i);

       (b) that is a service —

               (i) between a point in Singapore and one or more other
                   points in Singapore; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.               Broadcasting Act 1994                        14

          (ii) between a point and one or more other points, where
               the firstmentioned point is outside Singapore and at
               least one of the other points is inside Singapore; and

          (c) that is not an excluded electronic service.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(c), an excluded electronic
service means —

(a) an SMS service;

(b) an MMS service;

          (c) an internet access service;

(d) an electronic service where the only user-generated content
     enabled by that service is one-to-one live aural
     communications;

          (e) an electronic service where the only user-generated content
              enabled by that service is communication between 2 or
              more end-users that is of a private or domestic nature;

          (f) an electronic service where the user-generated content
              enabled by that service is accessible substantially or only to
              a closed group of end-users employed or engaged in a
              business (whether or not carried on for profit) and solely
              for their use as a tool in the conduct of that business; or

(g) an electronic service that is prescribed by the Minister, by
     order in the Gazette, to be an excluded electronic service,
     after taking into account the functionalities of the service
     or the user-generated content enabled by that service or
     both.

 (4) References in this Act to an online communication service
include such a service provided from outside Singapore as well as
such a service provided in or from Singapore.

(5) In this section —

“functionality”, in relation to an electronic service, includes —

          (a) any feature that enables interactions of any
               description between end-users of the service; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
15  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) any feature that enables end-users to search online
         locations or databases, index search results or
         otherwise retrieve content from the search results;

    “MMS” means an electronic service that enables only the
       transmission of multimedia messages (such as visual or voice
       communication) from an end-user on a mobile telephone to
       another mobile telephone through a telecommunication
       service;

    “MMS message” means a message (whether or not accompanied
       by any sound or images) sent using an MMS;

    “one-to-one live aural communications”, in relation to an
       electronic service, means content —

    (a) consisting of speech or other sounds conveyed in real
         time between 2 end-users of the service by means of
         the service;

    (b) that is not a recording; and

    (c) that is not accompanied by user-generated content of
        any other description, except identifying content;

    “point-to-multipoint service” means an electronic service which
       allows an end-user to communicate content to more than one
       end-user simultaneously;

    “SMS” means an electronic service that only enables the
       transmission of short text messages from an end-user on a
       mobile telephone to another mobile telephone through a
       telecommunication service;

    “SMS message” means a text message sent using an SMS;

    “user-generated content”, in relation to an electronic service,
       means content —

    (a) that is —

    (i) generated directly on the service by an end-user
        of the service; or

    (ii) communicated by posting or sharing on the
         service by an end-user of the service; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     16

          (b) that may be accessed by another end-user of that
               service, or other users, of the service by means of that
               service.

                                                                     [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Amendment of Fourth Schedule

 2B.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, revoke or
replace, or add to, the Fourth Schedule.

 (2) Every order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Transitional arrangements for former licensable broadcasting
service

 2C.—(1) With effect from the date that a licensable broadcasting
service is specified in the Fourth Schedule as an online
communication service (called the conversion date) —

       (a) this Act ceases to apply to —

               (i) that service as a licensable broadcasting service; and

              (ii) the provider of that service as a broadcasting
                   licensee; and

       (b) this Act then continues to apply to that service as an online
            communication service, and the former broadcasting
            licensee as a provider of an online communication service,

but without affecting the following:

       (c) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the former broadcasting licensee;

       (d) the enforcement by the former broadcasting licensee of any
            right or claim against any person;

       (e) any proceeding under section 12(1) with respect to the
            former licensable broadcasting service that is pending
            immediately before the conversion date;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
17  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (f) any appeal under section 12(2) or 59(1) with respect to the
        former licensable broadcasting service that is pending
        immediately before the conversion date.

 (2) Any proceeding and appeal mentioned in subsection (1)(e) and
(f) may be continued under sections 12 and 59, respectively, as if the
Fourth Schedule had not been enacted.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Meaning of “provider” of online communication service

 2D.—(1) Subject to this section, in this Act, the provider of an
online communication service is the entity that has control over —

       (a) who can use the online communication service that is
            specified in the Fourth Schedule;

       (b) the operations of the characteristics of the electronic
            service that are specified in the Fourth Schedule in respect
            of the online communication service; or

       (c) which content is communicated or provided on the online
            communication service.

 (2) Where an online communication service is generated by a
machine, the entity that controls the machine (and that entity alone) is
to be treated as being the provider of the online communication
service.

 (3) However, if no entity controls the machine mentioned in
subsection (2), but an individual controls or individuals control the
machine, the provider of the online communication service is to be
treated as being that individual or those individuals.

 (4) If no entity has control over —

       (a) who can use the online communication service that is
            specified in the Fourth Schedule;

       (b) the operations of the characteristics of the electronic
            service that are specified in the Fourth Schedule in respect
            of the online communication service; or

       (c) which content is communicated or provided on the online
            communication service,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     18

but an individual has or individuals have control over who can do so,
then that individual or those individuals is or are to be treated as being
the provider of the online communication service.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), a person that provides an internet access
service through which content on an online communication service
may be accessed by end-users of the online communication service, is
not to be treated as a person who has control over who can use the
online communication service for the purposes of this Act.

 (6) Part 10A regulations may be made to specify who is to be
treated as a provider of an online communication service where more
than one entity is treated as the provider thereof under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

                                    PART 2

             PROVISIONS RELATING TO AUTHORITY

Directions by Minister

 3.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with a person to whom
this section applies, give to that person such directions as the Minister
thinks fit as to the exercise by that person of that person’s functions
under this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), if it appears to the Minister to
be requisite or expedient to do so —

       (a) when any public emergency occurs, in the public interest
            or in the interests of public security, national defence or
            relations with the government of another country; or

       (b) in order —

               (i) to discharge or facilitate the discharge of an
                   obligation binding on the Government by virtue of
                   its being a member of an international organisation
                   or a party to an international agreement;

              (ii) to attain or facilitate the attainment of any other
                   object the attainment of which is in the opinion of the
                   Minister requisite or expedient in view of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
19  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    Government being a member of such an organisation
    or a party to such an agreement; or

    (iii) to enable the Government to become a member of
          such an organisation or a party to such an agreement,

the Minister may, after consultation with a person to whom this
section applies, give such directions to that person as are necessary in
the circumstances of the case.

 (3) Any directions given under subsection (1) or (2) may include
provisions for —

    (a) the prohibition or regulation of any broadcasting service;

    (b) the taking of, the control of or the use for official purposes
         of, all or any system and equipment used in the provision
         of any broadcasting service; and

    (c) the stopping, delaying and censoring of messages and the
        carrying out of any other purposes which the Minister
        thinks necessary.

 (4) A person to whom this section applies must give immediate
effect to any directions given to the person under subsection (1) or (2)
despite any other duty imposed on the person by or under this Act.

 (5) A person to whom this section applies must not disclose any
directions given to the person under subsection (1) or (2) if the
Minister notifies the person that the Minister is of the opinion that the
disclosure of the directions is against the public interest.

(6) The Minister may —

    (a) pay compensation for any damage caused to a licensee by
         reason of its compliance with the Minister’s directions
         under subsection (3)(b); or

    (b) make grants to licensees for defraying or contributing
         towards any losses which they may sustain by reason of
         their compliance with the Minister’s directions under any
         other provisions of this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     20

 (7) Any sums required by the Minister for paying compensation or
making grants under subsection (6) are to be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund.

 (8) This section applies to the Authority and to any person who is a
licensee.

(9) If any doubt arises as to —

(a) the existence of a public emergency; or

(b) whether any act done under this section was in the public
     interest or in the interests of public security, national
     defence or relations with the government of another
     country,

a certificate signed by the Minister is conclusive evidence of the
matters stated in the certificate.

Exclusion of liability of Authority for act or default of licensees

 4. The Authority shall not be liable in respect of any injury, loss or
damage suffered by any person by reason of any act, default, neglect
or otherwise of any licensee or of any agent or employee of the
licensee.

                                    PART 3
                           LICENSING SCHEME
Power of Authority to grant licences
 5.—(1) The Authority may grant the following licences:
       (a) broadcasting licences;
       (b) broadcasting apparatus licences.
 (2) The Authority may grant licences under subsection (1) in such
categories as the Authority may determine are appropriate for the
regulation of the broadcasting industry.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
21                 Broadcasting Act 1994                      2020 Ed.

Codes of Practice

6.—(1) The Authority may issue and from time to time review —

    (a) Codes of Practice relating to standards of programmes and
         advertisements broadcast by licensees; and

    (b) Codes of Practice relating to broadcast standards required
         to be maintained by licensees.

 (2) Any provision in any Code of Practice that is inconsistent with
any regulations is, to the extent of the inconsistency —

    (a) to have effect subject to the regulations; or

    (b) where appropriate, having regard to the regulations, to
         have no effect.

 (3) The Authority may in any licence exempt any licensee from any
provision in a Code of Practice generally or for any time that the
Authority may specify.

Restriction on transfer of licences

 7.—(1) A licence must not be transferred to any other person
without the prior written consent of the Authority to the transfer to
that person.

 (2) Any purported transfer of any licence is for all purposes void
and of no effect.

                                    PART 4

                      BROADCASTING SERVICES

Licensing of broadcasting services

 8.—(1) A person must not provide any licensable broadcasting
service in or from Singapore without a broadcasting licence granted
by the Authority under this section or granted under section 9.

 (2) Every broadcasting licence (other than a class licence) granted
by the Authority must be in such form and for such period and may
contain such terms and conditions as the Authority may determine.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     22

 (3) The Authority may require any licensee to pay a fee on the grant
of the licence or such periodic fees while the licence is in force or
both of such amount as the Authority may determine by or under the
licence.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (2), conditions attached to a
free‑to‑air licence granted under this section may include —

(a) a condition requiring the licensee to broadcast any
     programmes that the Authority may require and at such
     time, or within such period and on such broadcasting
     service as the Authority may specify;

(b) a condition prohibiting or restricting, in a manner specified
     in the licence, the broadcasting by the licensee of
     advertising material which is of a class or description so
     specified;

          (c) the right of the Authority in the public interest to make
              modifications to any condition of the licence during the
              period to which the licence relates;

(d) a condition requiring the licensee to provide a performance
     bond to secure compliance by the licensee with any
     condition attached to the licence;

          (e) broadcast requirements, including conditions relating to
              the assignment and use of frequencies, channel capacities
              and coverage;

          (f) a condition requiring the payment by the licensee of
              royalties, licence fees, spectrum utilisation fees and other
              fees and charges as may be prescribed;

(g) a condition requiring the broadcasting of programmes in
     any language that may be specified, and the periods and
     duration of such broadcast; and

(h) conditions imposing controls and restrictions, directly or
     indirectly, on the creation, holding or disposal of shares in
     the licensee or its shareholders or interests in the
     undertaking of the licensee or any part thereof.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
23  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) The Authority may require any licensee to pay a charge of such
amount as the Authority may determine for the late payment of any
royalty, fee or charge payable by that licensee to the Authority.

                                                                                 [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

 (6) Every amount collected before the date of commencement of
the Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 as, or
purportedly as, a charge for the late payment of any royalty, fee or
charge shall be deemed to be and always to have been validly
collected, and no legal proceedings shall lie or be instituted or
maintained in any court of law on account of or in respect of any such
collection.

                                                                                 [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

Class licences

 9.—(1) The Authority may, by notification in the Gazette,
determine a class licence (being a broadcasting licence) for the
provision of such subscription broadcasting services and other
licensable broadcasting services as the Authority may specify.

 (2) The Authority may include in a class licence any conditions that
it thinks fit.

 (3) Different conditions may be specified for —

       (a) different categories of licensable broadcasting services;
            and

       (b) different types of such services.

 (4) Without limiting the conditions that may be imposed, the
Authority may impose a condition on a class licence requiring the
licensee to comply with a Code of Practice that is applicable to the
licensee or designed to ensure that a breach of a condition of the class
licence by the licensee does not recur.

Modification of broadcasting licence conditions

 10.—(1) The Authority may modify the conditions of a
broadcasting licence (other than a class licence) in accordance with
this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     24

 (2) Before making any modification to the conditions of a
broadcasting licence under this section, the Authority must give
notice to the broadcasting licensee —

(a) stating that it proposes to make the modification in the
     manner specified in the notice and (except if the
     modification results from a contravention by the licensee
     as described in section 12(1)(a) or any other default of the
     licensee) the compensation payable (if any) for any
     damage caused by the modification; and

(b) specifying the time (being at least 28 days from the date of
     service of notice on the licensee) within which written
     representations with respect to the proposed modification
     may be made.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Authority must consider the representation
and may —

(a) reject the representation; or

(b) amend the proposed modification or compensation payable
     in accordance with the representation, or otherwise,

and, in either event, must thereupon issue a direction in writing to the
broadcasting licensee requiring that effect be given to the proposed
modification specified in the notice or to such modification as
subsequently amended by the Authority within a reasonable time.

 (4) Any broadcasting licensee aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority under subsection (3) may, within 14 days of receiving the
direction, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (5) The Authority must not enforce a direction given under
subsection (3) —

(a) during the period mentioned in subsection (4); and

(b) while the broadcasting licensee’s appeal is under
     consideration by the Minister.

 (6) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the time specified in subsection (2) or if any written representation
made under that subsection is withdrawn, the Authority may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
25  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

immediately carry out the modification as specified in the notice
given under that subsection.

Modification of class licence conditions
 11. The Authority may, by notification in the Gazette —
       (a) modify the conditions specified in any class licence; or
       (b) specify additional conditions of any class licence.

Suspension or cancellation of broadcasting licence, etc.

 12.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) a broadcasting licensee is contravening, or has
            contravened, any of the conditions of its licence, any
            relevant Code of Practice, any of the provisions of this Act
            or the regulations or any direction issued by the Minister or
            the Authority to, or applicable to, the licensee;

       (b) a broadcasting licensee has gone into compulsory or
            voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
            amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (c) a broadcasting licensee has made any assignment to, or
            composition with, its creditors; or

       (d) the public interest or the security of Singapore so requires,

the Authority may, by written notice and without any compensation,
do either or both of the following:

       (e) cancel the licence or suspend the licence for any period that
            the Authority thinks fit and, in the case of a class licensee,
            cancel or suspend the application of the class licence in
            respect of the class licensee for any period that the
            Authority thinks fit;

        (f) require the payment of a fine of such amount as the
            Authority thinks fit.

 (2) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision of the Authority
under this section may, within 14 days of receiving the notice
mentioned in subsection (1), appeal to the Minister whose decision is
final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     26

(3) In this section, “Code of Practice” includes —

(a) a code of practice issued by the Authority under section 61
     of the Info‑communications Media Development
     Authority Act 2016; and

(b) a code of practice issued under section 17 of the Media
     Development Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 172,
     2003 Revised Edition) before the repeal of that Act by
     the Info‑communications Media Development Authority
     Act 2016.

                                                                                                 [22/2016]

Compliance with Codes of Practice, etc.

 13.—(1) Every broadcasting licensee must comply with the Codes
of Practice relating to standards of programmes and advertisements
and broadcast standards.

 (2) A broadcasting licensee must not allow to be transmitted a
broadcasting service other than in accordance with —

       (a) any broadcast standards specified in any regulations or
            Code of Practice; or

       (b) any condition which may be incorporated in its
            broadcasting licence.

Free-to-air broadcasting services

 14.—(1) A free-to-air licensee must provide broadcasting services
in such language as may be specified in its licence.

 (2) Each free-to-air broadcasting service must be broadcast for at
least such number of hours during each day as may be specified in the
free-to-air licence.

Submission of broadcasting material to Authority

 15.—(1) A broadcasting licensee must supply to the Authority on
demand any material, including the script thereof, which is intended
for broadcasting.

 (2) A broadcasting licensee who is required to supply material
under subsection (1) must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
27  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) supply the material in such form as the Authority may
         determine; or

    (b) make available on demand without charge such equipment
         as the Authority may determine.

 (3) The Authority may, if it is satisfied that any programme
intended to be broadcast by a broadcasting licensee may be against
the public interest or order, national harmony or will offend against
decency, require the broadcasting licensee to pre-record the
programme and submit it to the Authority for approval before it is
broadcast.

Directions of Authority

 16.—(1) The Authority may issue directions in writing to a
broadcasting licensee requiring the licensee to take any action with
regard to the contents of programmes or advertisements or to
broadcast standards that the Authority considers necessary in order to
comply with the provisions of this Act, any relevant Code of Practice
and any condition attached to the broadcasting licence.

 (2) Directions issued under subsection (1) may include a direction
prohibiting a broadcasting licensee from broadcasting the whole or
any part of a programme or of any class of material.

 (3) Any broadcasting licensee and any other person responsible for
the broadcasting of any programme prohibited by a direction issued
under subsection (1) shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Public service broadcasting services

 17. A broadcasting licensee must include, within the broadcasting
services required to be broadcast by it under its broadcasting licence,
any programmes provided by the Authority or the Government
through the Authority as may be required by the Authority under the
conditions of its licence, including —

       (a) programmes for schools or other educational programmes;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     28

(b) news and information programmes produced in Singapore
     or elsewhere;

          (c) arts and cultural programmes; and

(d) drama and sports programmes produced in Singapore.

General requirements in respect of public service programmes

 18.—(1) Programmes required under section 17 or pursuant to a
condition attached to a broadcasting licence to be broadcast by a
broadcasting licensee must be broadcast without charge to the
Authority or with such subsidy from the Authority as may be
provided in that broadcasting licence.

 (2) A broadcasting licensee must, on the request of the Authority
and on receiving reasonable notice, make available to the Authority
without charge such part of its broadcasting apparatus as the
Authority may specify for the purpose of broadcasting programmes
required to be broadcast under section 17 or pursuant to a condition
attached to its broadcasting licence.

“Must carry” provision

 19.—(1) Despite anything in this Act but subject to this section, the
Authority may, by a direction in writing, require a broadcasting
licensee to provide for transmission and reception any broadcasting
service which is —

       (a) provided by any other person for such transmission and
            reception; and

       (b) specified in its licence or is of a description so specified.

 (2) Where the Authority gives a direction under this section, the
broadcasting licensee to whom the direction is given must comply
with the requirements of the direction until it is withdrawn.

 (3) Where it is proposed to give a direction under this section, the
Authority must give notice to the broadcasting licensee —

       (a) stating that the Authority proposes to give directions in the
            manner specified in the notice and the compensation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
29  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    payable (if any) for the damage caused by the direction;
    and

    (b) specifying the time (being at least 28 days from the date the
         notice is served on the broadcasting licensee) within which
         written representations with respect to the proposed
         directions may be made.

 (4) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (3)(b), the Authority must consider the representation
and may —

    (a) reject the representation; or

    (b) amend the proposed direction or compensation payable in
         accordance with the representation, or otherwise,

and, in either event, must thereupon issue a direction in writing to the
broadcasting licensee requiring that effect be given to the proposed
direction specified in the notice or to such direction as subsequently
amended by the Authority within a reasonable time.

 (5) Any broadcasting licensee aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority under subsection (4) may, within 14 days of receiving the
direction, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (6) The Authority must not enforce a direction given under
subsection (4) —

    (a) during the period mentioned in subsection (5); and

    (b) while the broadcasting licensee’s appeal is under
         consideration by the Minister.

 (7) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the time specified in subsection (3) or if any written representation
made under that subsection is withdrawn, the Authority may
immediately give effect to the requirements of the direction given
under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     30

          PART 5

          BROADCASTING APPARATUS

Licensing of broadcasting apparatus

20.—(1) Subject to this section, a person must not —

(a) install any broadcasting apparatus in any place, or on board
     any ship, aircraft or vehicle registered in Singapore;

(b) import, offer for sale, sell or have in the person’s
     possession with a view to sale, any broadcasting
     apparatus; or

          (c) operate or have on any premises in Singapore owned or
              occupied by the person broadcasting apparatus on or by
              which broadcasting services are received,

except under and in accordance with a licence granted under this
section.

 (2) Every licence granted under subsection (1) must be in such form
and for such period and may contain such terms and conditions as the
Authority may determine.

 (3) Subsection (1) is not to be construed as requiring any person
who works a broadcasting apparatus in the course of the person’s duty
as a member of the Singapore Armed Forces, the Singapore Police
Force, the Vigilante Corps or the Singapore Civil Defence Force to
obtain a licence under this Act.

 (4) The Authority may exempt any person or broadcasting
apparatus or class of broadcasting apparatus from subsection (1).

Application of certain provisions of Act to broadcasting
apparatus licences

 21. Sections 10, 12 and 16 apply, with the necessary modifications,
to broadcasting apparatus licences and broadcasting apparatus
licensees.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
31  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

                             PART 6

    FREQUENCY PLANNING

Frequency planning criteria

 22. In performing its functions under this Act, the Authority must
have regard to —

    (a) the social and economic characteristics within Singapore;

    (b) the number of existing broadcasting services and the
         demand for new broadcasting services;

    (c) the developments in technology;

    (d) the technical restraints relating to the transmission,
         delivery or reception of broadcasting services;

    (e) the demand for electromagnetic, and particularly radio
        frequency, spectrum for services other than broadcasting
        services; and

      (f) any other matters that the Authority considers appropriate.

                                                                                                         [22/2016]

23. [Repealed by Act 22 of 2016]

Separate licence for use of frequency not required

 24. Despite anything in the Telecommunications Act 1999, if a
licensee is granted a broadcasting licence under this Act and the
licence includes the right for the licensee to use any specified
frequency in the electromagnetic spectrum or satellite orbits for the
broadcast, or the transmission of one or more broadcasting services,
then the licensee is not required to obtain any other licence under this
Act or the Telecommunications Act 1999 in respect of the use of such
frequency or satellite orbits for the period for which that broadcasting
licence is in force and for the purposes permitted by that licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     32

          PART 7

          BROADCASTING CONDITIONS

Transmission area requirements

 25.—(1) A broadcasting licensee must, within the time that may be
specified in its broadcasting licence, broadcast in a manner that
enables its broadcasting services to be received to the satisfaction of
the Authority in all parts of Singapore or any parts of Singapore that
the Authority may specify.

 (2) If the Authority so directs, a free-to-air licensee must publish, in
the manner that the Authority may require, notice of the
commencement dates for broadcasting its broadcasting services
and the areas of Singapore within which its broadcasting services
may be received satisfactorily.

Sharing of facilities

 26.—(1) The Authority may direct any broadcasting licensee or
broadcasting apparatus licensee to coordinate and cooperate, in such
manner and on such terms as the Authority may specify, with any
other licensee or any other person specified by the Authority in the
use or sharing of any broadcasting apparatus or related equipment or
facility (other than a telecommunication system licensed under
section 5 of the Telecommunications Act 1999) owned, operated or
used by the broadcasting licensee or broadcasting apparatus licensee
for the purpose of broadcasting, whether or not they have been
provided, or are intended to be provided, by the licensee or any other
licensee or any other person specified by the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may direct any broadcasting licensee to
coordinate and cooperate, in such manner and on such terms as the
Authority may specify, with any telecommunication licensee in the
use or sharing of any, or part of any, installation, plant or system
owned or used by the telecommunication licensee, where the
Authority is of the view that such coordination and cooperation is
necessary for the provision of any broadcasting service.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
33  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) In this section, “telecommunication licensee” and
“telecommunication system” have the meanings given by section 2
of the Telecommunications Act 1999.

Inspection and testing of broadcasting apparatus

 27.—(1) The Authority or any person authorised by it in that behalf
may, at any reasonable time, inspect and test any broadcasting
apparatus used, or intended to be used, by a broadcasting apparatus
licensee for the transmission of any broadcasting service for the
purpose of ascertaining whether or not the licensee is complying, or
will comply, at all times with the broadcast standards prescribed by
this Act or the regulations, any Code of Practice and the conditions of
its broadcasting apparatus licence in respect of the transmission of
broadcasting services.

 (2) For the purpose of any inspection or test under subsection (1),
the directors, principal officers and other employees of a broadcasting
apparatus licensee must —

       (a) make available on request to the Authority or any person
            authorised by the Authority for the purpose of the
            inspection or test, and permit to be inspected and tested,
            any part of its broadcasting apparatus used, or intended to
            be used, for the transmission of any broadcasting service;

       (b) assist the Authority or such authorised person in carrying
            out the inspection or test in any manner specified by it; and

       (c) answer directly and truthfully any question put to them by
            the Authority or such authorised person.

Provision of building space, etc., by developer or owner of
building or land

 28.—(1) Where the Authority —

       (a) considers it necessary that any licensable broadcasting
            service should be provided to any building; and

       (b) is of the opinion that any broadcasting apparatus or
            installation or plant to be used in providing the service
            has to be installed within the building or any land,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     34

the Authority may by direction require the developer or owner of the
building or land to provide, within the period that may be specified in
the direction, such broadcasting apparatus, installation or plant or
space, of a standard acceptable to the Authority, within or on the
building or land and access thereto as the Authority may require.

(2) Where the Authority —

(a) considers it necessary that the reception of any licensable
     broadcasting service in any building in any area should be
     facilitated; and

(b) is of the opinion that any broadcasting apparatus or
     installation or plant to be used in facilitating such
     reception has to be installed within or on any building or
     land in that area or any other area,

the Authority may by direction require the developer or owner of the
building or land to provide, within the period that may be specified in
the direction, access to the building or land and access to or
interconnection with any broadcasting apparatus or installation or
plant within or on the building or land.

(3) Any direction under subsection (1) or (2) may include —

(a) a requirement that the developer or owner of the building
     or land must contribute wholly or partly to such costs and
     expenses incurred for the provision of any broadcasting
     apparatus, installation or plant or space under
     subsection (1) as the Authority may determine; and

(b) any other requirements that the Authority may specify.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement in a
direction under subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (5) Nothing in any direction given under subsection (1) is to be
construed as granting any exemption from any licensing requirement
under this Act or any other written law which the developer or the
owner of any building or land may be required to comply with in
respect of any broadcasting apparatus or installation or plant.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
35  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (6) In this section, “installation or plant” includes all buildings,
lands, structures, machinery, equipment, cables, poles and lines used
or intended for use in connection with broadcasting.

                                    PART 8

               FOREIGN BROADCASTING SERVICES

Orders proscribing unacceptable foreign broadcasting services

 29.—(1) Subject to this section, the Minister may make an order
proscribing a foreign broadcasting service for the purposes of
section 30.

 (2) If the Authority considers that the quality or content of any
foreign broadcasting service which is brought to its attention is
unacceptable and that the service should be the subject of an order
under this section, the Authority must notify the Minister the details
of the service and the reasons why it considers an order under
subsection (1) should be made.

 (3) The Authority must not consider a foreign broadcasting service
to be unacceptable for the purposes of subsection (2) unless the
Authority is satisfied that the content of that service included any
matter which prejudices the public interest or order, national harmony
or offends against good taste or decency.

 (4) In this section and section 30, “foreign broadcasting service”
means a broadcasting service which transmits from a place outside
Singapore broadcasting services which are capable of being received
in Singapore.

Offence of supporting proscribed foreign broadcasting services

 30.—(1) This section applies to any foreign broadcasting service
which is proscribed for the purposes of this section by virtue of an
order made under section 29, and references in this section to a
proscribed service are references to any such service.

 (2) Any person who in Singapore does any of the following acts
shall be guilty of an offence:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     36

(a) supplying any equipment or other goods for use in
     connection with the operation of day-to-day running of a
     proscribed service;

(b) supplying, or offering to supply, programmes to be
     included in any broadcasting service transmitted as part
     of a proscribed service;

          (c) arranging for, or inviting, any other person to supply
              programmes to be so included;

(d) advertising, by means of programmes transmitted as part of
     a proscribed service, goods supplied by the person or
     services provided by the person;

          (e) publishing the times or other details of any programmes
              which are to be transmitted as part of a proscribed service
              or (otherwise than by publishing such details) publishing
              advertising matter calculated to promote a proscribed
              service, whether directly or indirectly;

          (f) supplying, or offering to supply, any decoding equipment
              which is designed or adapted to be used primarily for the
              purpose of enabling the reception of programmes
              transmitted as part of a proscribed service; and

(g) promoting, financially or otherwise, a proscribed service.

 (3) Any person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $40,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (4) Any equipment and goods used in the commission of an offence
under this section are liable to be forfeited to the Government.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a person exposing decoding
equipment for supply or having such equipment in the person’s
possession for supply is deemed to offer to supply it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
37  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

                        PART 9

    DECLARED FOREIGN BROADCASTING SERVICES

Declared foreign broadcasting services

 31.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, declare any
foreign broadcasting service rebroadcast in Singapore on any relevant
licensable broadcasting service to be a foreign broadcasting service
engaging in the domestic politics of Singapore.

 (2) A person must not, without the prior approval of the Minister,
include any declared foreign broadcasting service for rebroadcast in
Singapore on any relevant licensable broadcasting service.

(3) The Minister may —

    (a) grant his or her approval under subsection (2) subject to
         any conditions that he or she thinks fit;

    (b) refuse to grant his or her approval; or

    (c) revoke his or her approval at any time without giving any
        reason.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3), the Minister may, in imposing
conditions under that subsection, specify that —

    (a) the number of persons capable of receiving any declared
         foreign broadcasting service rebroadcast in Singapore on
         any relevant licensable broadcasting service must be
         restricted in any manner that the Minister may direct; and

    (b) the rebroadcast of any declared foreign broadcasting
         service on any relevant licensable broadcasting service in
         Singapore must be suspended for any period that the
         Minister may direct.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) or fails to comply
with any condition imposed under subsection (3)(a) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.               Broadcasting Act 1994                        38

(6) In this section —

“foreign broadcasting service” means —

          (a) any broadcasting service transmitting from a place
               outside Singapore; or

          (b) any broadcasting service transmitting from a place in
               Singapore but which is owned, controlled or
               managed by or on behalf of —

          (i) the government of a country outside Singapore
              or the agent of that government, whether
              resident in Singapore or otherwise;

          (ii) any company, association or society
               incorporated or constituted under any law in
               force outside Singapore, whether or not it has a
               branch office or place of business in Singapore;
               or

          (iii) any person who is not a citizen of Singapore,
                whether or not he or she is resident in
                Singapore;

“relevant licensable broadcasting service” means a licensable
   broadcasting service specified in the first column of the
   Third Schedule provided by a person specified in the second
   column of that Schedule opposite the licensable broadcasting
   service.

                                   PART 10

      OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OF BROADCASTING
                                COMPANIES

Application of this Part to broadcasting company

 32.—(1) This Part applies to every broadcasting company unless
exempted by the Minister under section 60(b).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
39                  Broadcasting Act 1994                     2020 Ed.

(2) In this Part —

    “broadcasting company” means a company incorporated or
       registered under the Companies Act 1967 which holds a
       relevant licence, or a broadcasting holding company;

    “broadcasting holding company” means a holding company of a
       company incorporated or registered under the Companies
       Act 1967 which holds a relevant licence;

    “holding company” has the meaning given by section 5 of the
       Companies Act 1967;

    “relevant licence” means —

    (a) any free-to-air licence; or

    (b) any broadcasting licence under which a subscription
         broadcasting service may be provided,

    which permits broadcast which is capable of being received
    in 50,000 dwelling-houses or more, but does not include any
    class licence; or

            (c) any other broadcasting licence that the Minister may
                 specify in the public interest or in the interests of
                 public security or order, or national defence;

                                                                                [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    “sub‑fund”, “umbrella VCC” and “VCC” have the meanings
       given by section 2(1) of the VCC Act;

                                                                                [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    “VCC Act” means the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                                           [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Special features of broadcasting company

 33.—(1) A broadcasting company must not, on or after
2 September 2002, appoint a person as its chief executive officer
or director, or as the chairperson of its board of directors, unless it has
obtained the approval of the Authority.

 (2) Unless the Authority otherwise approves, the chief executive
officer of a broadcasting company and at least one-half of its directors
must be citizens of Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.               Broadcasting Act 1994                        40

 (3) No chief executive officer, director, or chairperson of the board
of directors, of a broadcasting company who was appointed before
2 September 2002 is to be permitted by the broadcasting company to
act as such on or after that date unless —

(a) his or her appointment as chief executive officer, director,
     or chairperson of the board of directors, of the broadcasting
     company was approved by the Authority before
     2 September 2002; or

(b) his or her appointment as chief executive officer, director,
     or chairperson of the board of directors, of the broadcasting
     company is approved by the Authority on a written
     application by the broadcasting company made within
     6 months after 2 September 2002 or any longer period that
     the Authority may allow.

 (4) Where the Authority does not approve the appointment of a
person as chief executive officer, director or chairperson of the board
of directors under subsection (3)(b), the broadcasting company must
immediately remove the person from such office.

 (5) Any broadcasting company which contravenes this section shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or of the memorandum or articles of association, or other
constitution, of a broadcasting company.

(7) In this section —

“chief executive officer”, in relation to a broadcasting company,
   means any person, by whatever name described, who is —

          (a) in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
               arrangement with, the broadcasting company; and

          (b) principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of any type of business of the broadcasting
               company in Singapore,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
41  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    and includes any person for the time being performing all or
    any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967.

Application and interpretation of this section and sections 35
to 42

 34.—(1) This section and sections 35 to 42 apply to, and in relation
to, all individuals whether resident in Singapore or not and whether
citizens of Singapore or not, and to all bodies corporate or
unincorporate, whether incorporated or carrying on business in
Singapore or not.

 (2) In sections 35 to 42, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
         arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
         express or implied;

      “share” includes stock except where a distinction between stock
         and shares is expressed or implied;

      “substantial shareholder” has the meaning given by section 81 of
         the Companies Act 1967, with the reference to a company in
         the definition replaced with a reference to a VCC where the
         entity concerned is a VCC;

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967.

 (3) In determining whether a person is a substantial shareholder of a
VCC that is an umbrella VCC for the purposes of the definition of
“substantial shareholder” in subsection (2), a reference in that
definition to voting shares in a VCC is to voting shares that are issued
in respect of one or more sub‑funds of the umbrella VCC.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     42

Control of substantial shareholdings in broadcasting
companies

 35.—(1) A person must not, on or after 2 September 2002, become
a substantial shareholder of a broadcasting company without first
obtaining the approval of the Minister.

 (2) Subject to section 37(4), a person who, immediately before
2 September 2002, is a substantial shareholder of a broadcasting
company must not continue to be a substantial shareholder unless the
person has, within 6 months after 2 September 2002 or any longer
period that the Minister may allow, applied to the Minister for
approval to continue to be a substantial shareholder.

 (3) A person must not, on or after 2 September 2002, enter into any
agreement or arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
express or implied, to act together with any other person with respect
to the acquisition, holding or disposal of, or the exercise of rights in
relation to, their interests in voting shares of an aggregate of more
than 5% of the total votes attached to all voting shares in a
broadcasting company without first obtaining the approval of the
Minister.

 (3A) In subsection (3), where the broadcasting company concerned
is a broadcasting holding company that is an umbrella VCC whose
shareholding in or control of a company which holds a relevant
licence by virtue of which that company is a subsidiary of the
umbrella VCC, is attributable to one or more of its sub‑funds, the
reference to the voting shares in a broadcasting company is to the
voting shares in the umbrella VCC that are issued in respect of that
sub‑fund or those sub‑funds.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (4) Subject to section 37(4), a person who, at any time before
2 September 2002, has entered into any agreement or arrangement
mentioned in subsection (3) must not continue to be a party to the
agreement or arrangement unless the person has, within 6 months
after 2 September 2002 or any longer period that the Minister may
allow, applied to the Minister for approval to continue to be a party to
the agreement or arrangement.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
43  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, a person has an interest in any
share if —

    (a) the person is deemed to have an interest in that share under
         section 7 of the Companies Act 1967; or

    (b) the person otherwise has a legal or an equitable interest in
         that share except for any interest that is to be disregarded
         under section 7 of the Companies Act 1967.

 (6) The application of subsection (5) in relation to any share in a
VCC is subject to the following modifications:

    (a) subsection (3) of section 7 of the Companies Act 1967 does
         not apply;

    (b) paragraph (ca) of section 7(9) of the Companies Act 1967
         does not apply;

    (c) a book-entry security is treated as an interest in a share;

    (d) a person that is a subsidiary of a VCC does not have an
         interest in the shares of the VCC by reason only that that
         interest is purchased or otherwise acquired by the
         subsidiary under section 22(6) or (11) of the VCC Act.

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Control of shareholdings and voting power in broadcasting
companies

 36.—(1) A person must not, on or after 2 September 2002,
become —

       (a) a 12% controller; or

       (b) an indirect controller,

of a broadcasting company without first obtaining the approval of the
Minister.

 (2) Subject to section 37(4), a person who, immediately before
2 September 2002, is —

       (a) a 12% controller; or

       (b) an indirect controller,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     44

of a broadcasting company must not continue to be such a controller
unless the person has, within 6 months after 2 September 2002 or any
longer period that the Minister may allow, applied to the Minister for
approval to continue to be such a controller.

 (3) In subsections (1)(a) and (2)(a), “12% controller” means a
person who alone or together with the person’s associates —

(a) holds at least 12% of the shares in the broadcasting
     company; or

(b) is in a position to control voting power of at least 12% in
     the broadcasting company.

 (3A) In subsection (3), where the broadcasting company concerned
is a broadcasting holding company that is an umbrella VCC whose
holding in or control of a company which holds a relevant licence by
virtue of which that company is a subsidiary of the umbrella VCC, is
attributable to one or more of its sub‑funds —

(a) the reference to the shares in a broadcasting company is to
     the shares in the umbrella VCC that are issued in respect of
     that sub‑fund or those sub‑funds; and

      (b) the reference to voting power in a broadcasting company is
           to the voting power in the umbrella VCC that is exercisable
           in respect of that sub‑fund or those sub‑funds.

                                                                                   [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

(4) For the purposes of subsections (3) and (3A) —

(a) a person holds a share if —

          (i) the person is deemed to have an interest in that share
              under section 7(6) to (10) of the Companies
              Act 1967; or

          (ii) the person otherwise has a legal or an equitable
               interest in that share except for any interest that is to
               be disregarded under section 7(6) to (10) of the
               Companies Act 1967;

(b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the voting
     power in a broadcasting company is a reference to the
     control, whether direct or indirect, of that percentage of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
45  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    total number of votes that might be cast in a general
    meeting of the broadcasting company; and

    (c) a person (A) is an associate of another person (B) if —

    (i) A is the spouse or a parent, step-parent or remoter
        lineal ancestor, or a son, stepson, daughter,
        stepdaughter or remoter issue, or a brother or
        sister, of B;

    (ii) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or
         under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
         act in accordance with the directions, instructions or
         wishes of B, or where B is a corporation, of the
         directors of B;

    (iii) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or
          under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to
          act in accordance with the directions, instructions or
          wishes of A, or where A is a corporation, of the
          directors of A;

    (iv) A is a person who is accustomed or under an
         obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
         accordance with the directions, instructions or
         wishes of B;

    (v) B is a person who is accustomed or under an
         obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
         accordance with the directions, instructions or
         wishes of A;

    (vi) A is a related corporation of B;

    (vii) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with
          other associates of B as described in
          sub‑paragraphs (ii) to (vi), is in a position to
          control at least 20% of the voting power in A;

    (viii) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with
           other associates of A as described in
           sub‑paragraphs (ii) to (vi), is in a position to
           control at least 20% of the voting power in B; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     46

             (ix) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
                   arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
                   express or implied, to act together with respect to the
                   acquisition, holding or disposal of shares or other
                   interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
                   voting power in relation to, the broadcasting
                   company.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (4A) The application of subsection (4)(a) in relation to any share in
a VCC is subject to the following modifications:

(a) paragraph (ca) of section 7(9) of the Companies Act 1967
     does not apply;

(b) a book-entry security is treated as an interest in a share;

       (c) a person that is a subsidiary of a VCC does not have an
            interest in the shares of the VCC by reason only that that
            interest is purchased or otherwise acquired by the
            subsidiary under section 22(6) or (11) of the VCC Act.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (5) In subsections (1)(b) and (2)(b), “indirect controller” means any
person, whether acting alone or together with any other person and
whether with or without holding shares or controlling voting power in
a broadcasting company —

(a) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
     wishes the directors of the broadcasting company are
     accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or
     informal, to act; or

(b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
     broadcasting company,

but does not include any person —

          (c) who is a director or other officer of the broadcasting
              company whose appointment has been approved by the
              Authority; or

(d) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
     wishes the directors of the broadcasting company are

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
47  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    accustomed to act by reason only that they act on advice
    given by the person in the person’s professional capacity.

Approval of applications

 37.—(1) The Minister may approve an application made by any
person under section 35 or 36 if the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) the person is a fit and proper person;

       (b) having regard to the person’s likely influence, the
            broadcasting company will or will continue to conduct
            its business prudently and comply with the provisions of
            this Act; and

       (c) it is in the national interest to do so.

 (2) Any approval under this section may be granted to any person
subject to any conditions that the Minister may determine, including
but not limited to any condition —

       (a) restricting the person’s disposal or further acquisition of
            shares or voting power in the broadcasting company; or

       (b) restricting the person’s exercise of voting power in the
            broadcasting company.

 (3) Any condition imposed under subsection (2) has effect despite
any of the provisions of the Companies Act 1967 or the VCC Act
(whichever is applicable) or anything contained in the memorandum
or articles of association, or other constitution, of the broadcasting
company.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (4) Where the Minister does not approve an application made by
any person under section 35(2) or (4) or 36(2), the person must,
within the time that the Minister may specify, take such steps as are
necessary —

       (a) in the case of section 35(2), to cease to be a substantial
            shareholder;

       (b) in the case of section 35(4), to cease to be a party to the
            agreement or arrangement; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     48

          (c) in the case of section 36(2), to cease to be —

          (i) a 12% controller; or

          (ii) an indirect controller,

          (c) as the case may be.

38. [Repealed by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Objection to existing control of broadcasting company

 39.—(1) The Minister may serve a written notice of objection on
any person mentioned in section 35 or 36 if the Minister is satisfied
that —

       (a) any condition of approval imposed on the person under
            section 37(2) has not been complied with;

       (b) the person ceases to be a fit and proper person;

       (c) having regard to the person’s likely influence, the
            broadcasting company is no longer likely to conduct its
            business prudently or to comply with the provisions of this
            Act;

       (d) it is no longer in the national interest to allow the person to
            continue to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
            described in section 35(3) or (4), or to continue to be a
            substantial shareholder, a 12% controller or an indirect
            controller, as the case may be;

       (e) the person has provided false or misleading information or
            documents in connection with an application under
            section 35 or 36; or

        (f) the Minister would not have granted his or her approval
            under section 37 had the Minister been aware, at that time,
            of the circumstances relevant to the person’s application
            for the approval.

 (2) Before serving a written notice of objection, the Minister must,
unless he or she decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so,
cause to be given to the person concerned written notice of the
Minister’s intention to serve the written notice of objection,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
49  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

specifying a date by which the person may make written
representations with regard to the proposed written notice of
objection.

 (3) Upon receiving the written representations of any person
mentioned in subsection (2), the Minister must consider the written
representations for the purpose of determining whether to issue a
written notice of objection.

 (4) The Minister must, in any written notice of objection, specify a
reasonable period within which the person to be served the written
notice of objection must —

    (a) take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the person
         ceases to be a party to the agreement or arrangement
         described in section 35(3) or (4), or ceases to be a
         substantial shareholder, a 12% controller or an indirect
         controller, as the case may be; or

    (b) comply with any direction or restriction that the Minister
         may make under section 40.

 (5) Any person served with a written notice of objection under this
section must comply with the notice.

Power to make directions

 40.—(1) Without affecting section 41, if the Minister is satisfied
that any person has contravened section 35, 36, 37(4) or 39(5) or any
condition imposed under section 37(2), or if the Minister has served a
written notice of objection under section 39, the Minister may, by
written notice —

       (a) direct the transfer or disposal of all or any of the shares in
            the broadcasting company held by the person or any of the
            person’s associates (called in this section the specified
            shares) within such time and subject to such conditions as
            the Minister considers appropriate;

       (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified shares; or

       (c) make any other direction or restriction that the Minister
            considers appropriate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     50

 (2) Any person to whom a notice is served under subsection (1)
must comply with any direction or restriction that may be specified in
the notice.

 (3) In the case of any direction or restriction made under
subsection (1)(a) or (b), despite any of the provisions of the
Companies Act 1967 or the VCC Act (whichever is applicable) or
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association, or
other constitution, of the broadcasting company —

(a) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of the specified
     shares unless the Minister expressly permits those rights to
     be exercised;

(b) no shares of the broadcasting company are to be issued or
     offered (whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in
     respect of the specified shares unless the Minister
     expressly permits such issue or offer; and

          (c) except in a liquidation of the broadcasting company, no
              payment is to be made by the broadcasting company of any
              amount (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
              respect of the specified shares unless the Minister
              expressly authorises such payment,

until a transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the direction
or until the restriction on a transfer or disposal is removed, as the case
may be.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (4) In this section, “associate” has the meaning given by
section 36(4)(c).

Offences, penalties and defences

 41.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 35, 36(1)(a) or (2)(a)
or 37(4)(a), (b) or (c)(i) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
51  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) Any person who contravenes section 36(1)(b) or (2)(b),
37(4)(c)(ii), 39(5) or 40(2) or any condition imposed under
section 37(2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of
a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 35 or 36, it is a defence for the person to
prove that —

    (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
         section 35 or 36, as the case may be; and

    (b) the person has, within 14 days of becoming aware that the
         person had contravened section 35 or 36 (as the case may
         be), notified the Minister of the contravention and, within
         the time that may be determined by the Minister, taken
         such actions in relation to the person’s shareholding or
         control of the voting power in the broadcasting company as
         the Minister may direct.

 (4) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 36(1), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

    (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
         shareholding as described in section 36(4)(a) of, or in the
         voting power controlled by, any of his associates described
         in section 36(4)(c)(i);

    (b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
         or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
         associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
         disposal of shares or other interests in, or under which
         they act together in exercising their voting power in
         relation to, the broadcasting company; and

    (c) the person has, within 14 days of the date of the
        contravention, notified the Minister of the contravention
        and, within the time that may be determined by the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     52

          Minister, taken such action in relation to the person’s
          shareholding or control of the voting power in the
          broadcasting company as the Minister may direct.

 (5) Except as provided in subsections (3) and (4), it is not a defence
for a person charged with an offence in respect of a contravention of
section 35 or 36 to prove that the person did not intend to or did not
knowingly contravene section 35 or 36, as the case may be.

Power to obtain information

 42.—(1) The Authority may, by written notice, direct any
broadcasting company to obtain from any of its shareholders and
to transmit to the Authority information —

       (a) as to whether that shareholder holds any share in the
            broadcasting company as beneficial owner or as trustee;
            and

       (b) if the shareholder holds the share as trustee, to indicate, so
            far as the shareholder can, the person for whom the
            shareholder holds the share (either by name or by other
            particulars sufficient to enable that person to be identified)
            and the nature of that person’s interest,

and the broadcasting company must comply with that direction
within the time that may be specified in the notice.

 (2) The Authority may, by written notice, require any shareholder
of a broadcasting company, or any person who appears from the
information provided to the Authority under subsection (1) or this
subsection to have an interest in any share in a broadcasting company,
to inform the Authority —

       (a) whether the person holds that interest as beneficial owner
            or as trustee, and if the person holds the interest as trustee,
            to indicate, so far as he or she can, the person for whom he
            or she holds the interest (either by name or by other
            particulars sufficient to enable that person to be identified)
            and the nature of his or her interest; or

       (b) whether any share or any voting right attached to the share
            is the subject of an agreement or arrangement described in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
53  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    section 35(3) or (4) or 36(4)(c)(ix), and if so, to give
    particulars of the agreement or arrangement and the parties
    to it,

and the person must comply with the notice within the time that may
be specified in the notice.

(3) Any person who —

    (a) fails to comply with a notice under this section; or

    (b) in purported compliance of the notice, knowingly or
         recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material
         particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

Funds from foreign source for purposes of certain
broadcasting service

 43.—(1) Subject to this section, a person must not, without the prior
consent of the Authority, receive any fund from any foreign source
for the purposes of financing, directly or indirectly, wholly or partly,
any broadcasting service owned or operated by any broadcasting
company.

 (2) The Authority may grant its consent under subsection (1) if it is
satisfied, on any information that it may require to be provided to it,
that the fund from a foreign source is intended for bona fide
commercial purposes.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), where any fund from a foreign source is
sent to a person without the person’s prior knowledge, consent or
solicitation and the fund is intended for or given by the sender for any
purpose mentioned in that subsection, that person must, within 7 days
of receiving the fund, report to the Authority the circumstances and
particulars of the receipt of the fund and the purpose for which the
fund was received.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     54

 (4) Where any fund from a foreign source has been received by a
person for any purpose mentioned in subsection (1) and the Authority
refuses to grant consent to retain the fund, the person must, within the
time that is specified by the Authority, return the fund to its sender or,
if the sender cannot be traced, donate the fund to any charity specified
by the Authority.

 (5) Any employee of a broadcasting company who, having received
any fund from a foreign source for the broadcasting of any item or
programme or for adopting a particular line or bias in respect of any
item or programme, fails to report in writing, within 7 days of
receiving the fund, to the company’s chief executive shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to the same penalty
prescribed by subsection (8).

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), any fund received from
outside Singapore by an employee is presumed to be from a foreign
source until the contrary is proved.

 (7) Nothing in this section applies to any dealing by any person in
the shares of a broadcasting company quoted on a stock exchange in
Singapore.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (3) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both, and the court may, in addition to any other penalty
that it may impose, order the forfeiture to the Authority of any fund
which is the subject of the charge.

(9) In this section and section 44 —

“foreign source” includes —

          (a) the government of a country outside Singapore or the
               agent of that government, whether resident in
               Singapore or otherwise;

          (b) any company, association or society incorporated or
               constituted under any law in force outside Singapore,
               whether or not it has a branch office or place of
               business in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
55             Broadcasting Act 1994                          2020 Ed.

    (c) any person who is not a citizen of Singapore, whether
        or not he or she is resident in Singapore;

    (d) any —

    (i) body corporate formed or incorporated in
        Singapore, one or more of whose members or
        directors are not citizens of Singapore, or in the
        case of a member being another company,
        where one or more of the members or directors
        of that company are not citizens of Singapore;
        or

    (ii) unincorporated association or body constituted
         under any law in force in Singapore, one or
         more of whose members or directors are not
         citizens of Singapore, or in the case of a
         member being another company, where one or
         more of the members or directors of that
         company are not citizens of Singapore,

    (d) as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
         declare to be a foreign source; or

    (e) any other source outside Singapore that the Minister
        may, by notification in the Gazette, declare to be a
        foreign source;

    “fund” means money, securities, movable or immovable
       property or other valuable consideration;

    “fund from a foreign source” includes any fund provided by a
       foreign source indirectly through any agent of the foreign
       source.

Broadcasting company owned by foreign source

 44.—(1) A company must not, unless the Minister otherwise
approves, be granted or hold a relevant licence if the Minister is
satisfied that —

       (a) any foreign source, alone or together with one or more
            other foreign sources —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     56

          (i) holds at least 49% of the shares in the company or its
              holding company; or

          (ii) is in a position to control voting power of at least
               49% in the company or its holding company; or

(b) all or a majority of the persons having the direction, control
     or management of the company or its holding company
     are —

          (i) appointed by; or

          (ii) accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal
               or informal, to act in accordance with the directions,
               instructions or wishes of,

(b) any foreign source, whether acting alone or together with
     one or more other foreign sources.

 (1A) In subsection (1), where the holding company concerned is an
umbrella VCC whose holding in or control of the company by virtue
of which that company is a subsidiary of the umbrella VCC, is
attributable to one or more of its sub‑funds —

(a) the reference to the shares in the holding company is to the
     shares in the umbrella VCC that are issued in respect of
     that sub‑fund or those sub‑funds; and

       (b) the reference to voting power in the holding company is to
            the voting power in the umbrella VCC that are exercisable
            in respect of that sub‑fund or those sub‑funds.

                                                                                     [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

 (2) Where the Minister does not grant his or her approval under
subsection (1) for a company to hold a relevant licence (whether the
licence is granted before, on or after 2 September 2002), the
Authority must, within such time and in such manner as the Minister
may specify, cancel the licence by written notice and without any
compensation.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
57  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

(3) For the purposes of this section —

    (a) a person holds a share if —

    (i) the person is deemed to have an interest in that share
        under section 7(6) to (10) of the Companies
        Act 1967; or

    (ii) the person otherwise has a legal or an equitable
         interest in that share except for any interest that is to
         be disregarded under section 7(6) to (10) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

    (b) a reference to the control of a percentage of the voting
         power in a broadcasting company is a reference to the
         control, whether direct or indirect, of that percentage of the
         total number of votes that might be cast in a general
         meeting of the broadcasting company.

 (4) The application of subsection (3)(a) in relation to any share in a
VCC is subject to the following modifications:

    (a) paragraph (ca) of section 7(9) of the Companies Act 1967
         does not apply;

    (b) a book-entry security is treated as an interest in a share;

    (c) a person that is a subsidiary of a VCC does not have an
        interest in the shares of the VCC by reason only that that
        interest is purchased or otherwise acquired by the
        subsidiary under section 22(6) or (11) of the VCC Act.

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Appeal under this Part

 45. Any person aggrieved by any refusal of the Authority to grant
its approval or consent under any provision of this Part may appeal to
the Minister whose decision is final.

                                 PART 10A
    ONLINE COMMUNICATION SERVICE REGULATION

                                                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     58

          Division 1 — Scope and key concepts

Purpose

 45A. The purpose of this Part is to ensure that providers of online
communication services to Singapore end-users —

(a) provide a safe online environment for Singapore end-users
     that promotes responsible online behaviour, deters
     objectionable online activity and prevents access to
     harmful content;

(b) place adequate priority on the protection of Singapore end-
     users who are children of different age groups from
     exposure to content which may be harmful to them; and

          (c) are regulated in a manner that enables public interest
              considerations to be addressed.

                                                                              [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Application

 45B. This Part applies to and in relation to any content that is
provided on any online communication service and is accessible by
any Singapore end-user except that if the content was published on
the Internet before the date of commencement of section 5 of the
Online Safety (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022, this Part does
not apply to the content on an online communication service unless
the content remains accessible to a Singapore end-user of the service
on or after that date.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

When content is provided or communicated on online
communication service

 45C.—(1) For the purposes of this Part, content is provided on an
online communication service if the content can be accessed by one
or more of the end-users using the service.

 (2) For the purposes of this Part, content is communicated on an
online communication service by an end-user if the end-user causes
the content to be accessible by one or more other end-users using the
service.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
59                     Broadcasting Act 1994                  2020 Ed.

Meaning of “egregious content”

45D.—(1) In this Part, “egregious content” means —

    (a) content that advocates or instructs on suicide or self-harm;

    (b) content that advocates or instructs on violence or cruelty
         to, physical abuse of, or acts of torture or other infliction of
         serious physical harm on, human beings;

    (c) content that advocates or instructs on sexual violence or
        coercion in association with sexual conduct, whether or not
        involving the commission of a heinous sex crime;

    (d) content depicting for a sexual purpose, or that exploits, the
         nudity of a child or part of a child in a way that reasonable
         persons would regard as being offensive, whether or not
         sexual activity is involved;

    (e) content that advocates engaging in conduct in a way that —

    (i) obstructs or is likely to obstruct any public health
        measure carried out in Singapore; or

    (ii) results or is likely to result in a public health risk in
         Singapore;

    (f) content dealing with matters of race or religion in a way
        that is likely to cause feelings of enmity, hatred, ill will or
        hostility against, or contempt for or ridicule of, different
        racial or religious groups in Singapore;

    (g) content that advocates or instructs on terrorism; or

    (h) any other content that is prescribed by Part 10A regulations
         as egregious content.

 (2) It does not matter if the content in subsection (1) relates to
conduct engaged in within or outside Singapore.

(3) In this section —

    “heinous sex crime” means —

    (a) an offence under the Penal Code 1871 involving
         serious sexual assault such as rape or sexual assault

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     60

          by penetration, or sexual communication with or
          sexual grooming of a child;

          (b) an offence under section 8 of the Children and Young
               Persons Act 1993;

          (c) an abetment of or a conspiracy to commit an offence
              specified in paragraph (a) or (b);

          (d) an attempt to commit an offence specified in
               paragraph (a) or (b); or

          (e) conduct outside Singapore which, had it been
              engaged in within Singapore, would have been an
              offence specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) and
              punishable by a Singapore court;

“public health measure” means the organised response by
   society (including Government) to prevent, mitigate or
   control a public health risk;

“public health risk” means circumstances, a thing or substance
   that —

          (a) is or is likely to be hazardous to the health of
               individuals in the context of the wider health of the
               community; or

          (b) contributes or is likely to contribute to disease or the
               transmission of an infectious disease to or among
               human beings;

“terrorism” means the engaging in any conduct constituting —

          (a) a terrorist act within the meaning given by
               section 2(2) and (3) of the Terrorism (Suppression
               of Financing) Act 2002 affecting persons or property
               situated in Singapore;

          (b) a terrorist bombing offence within the meaning given
               by section 2 of the Terrorism (Suppression of
               Bombings) Act 2007;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
61  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) a nuclear terrorism offence within the meaning given
        by section 2 of the Terrorism (Suppression of Misuse
        of Radioactive Material) Act 2017;

    (d) an abetment of or a conspiracy to commit an act or
         offence specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c);

    (e) an attempt to commit an act or offence specified in
        paragraph (a), (b) or (c); or

    (f) an offence specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or
        (e) and punishable by a Singapore court if the
        conduct had been engaged in within Singapore.

                                                              [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

          Division 2 — Offences involving egregious content

Offence of not stopping egregious content on online
communication service

 45E.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person provides an online communication service with
            a Singapore end-user link;

       (b) the online communication service provides or can be used
            to access content on the online communication service;

       (c) the content is egregious content;

       (d) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know that —

               (i) the online communication service provides or can be
                   used to access that content; and

              (ii) the content is egregious content; and

       (e) the person fails in the person’s duty under section 45J to
            comply with a section 45H direction given to the person in
            relation to that egregious content provided on that online
            communication service by the person.

 (2) A person that is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     62

for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), it is immaterial whether the
online communication service is provided from outside Singapore or
provided in or from Singapore.

(4) If —

(a) a section 45H direction is given in relation to an online
     communication service provided by a person; and

(b) in a prosecution of the person for an offence against
     subsection (1), it is proven that the online communication
     service provides or can be used to, at the time the direction
     was given, access the content specified in the direction,

then, in that prosecution, it must be presumed until the contrary is
proved, that the person knew —

          (c) that the online communication service provides or can be
              used to access that content at the time the direction was
              given; and

(d) that the content is egregious content at the time the
     direction was given.

                                                                    [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Offence of not stopping access to online communication service

 45F.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person provides an internet access service with a
            Singapore end-user link;

       (b) the internet access service can be used by a Singapore end-
            user of an online communication service to access content
            provided on the online communication service;

       (c) the content is egregious content;

       (d) the person knows, or ought reasonably to know that —

               (i) the internet access service can be used by a
                   Singapore end-user of the online communication

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
63        Broadcasting Act 1994                               2020 Ed.

          service to access the content provided on the online
          communication service; and

          (ii) the content is egregious content; and

    (e) the person fails in the person’s duty under section 45J to
        comply with a section 45I blocking direction given to the
        person in relation to access to the online communication
        service through its internet access service.

 (2) A person that is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 for each day
or part of a day the person does not comply with a section 45I
blocking direction given to the person but not exceeding a total fine of
$500,000.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), it is immaterial whether the
online communication service is provided from outside Singapore or
provided in or from Singapore.

(4) If —

    (a) a section 45I blocking direction is given in relation to an
         internet access service provided by a person; and

    (b) in a prosecution of the person for an offence against
         subsection (1), it is proven that the internet access service
         can, at the time the direction was given, be used by a
         Singapore end-user of an online communication service to
         access content provided on the online communication
         service using the internet access service specified in the
         direction,

then, in that prosecution, it must be presumed until the contrary is
proved that the person knew —

    (c) that the internet access service can, at the time the direction
        was given, be used by a Singapore end-user of the online
        communication service to access content provided on that
        online communication service; and

    (d) that the content is egregious content at the time the
         direction was given.

                                                                        [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     64

Defence

 45G. In a prosecution of the person for an offence against
section 45E(1) or 45F(1), it is a defence for the person charged to
prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

(a) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
     in fact done to satisfy the duty in section 45J; and

(b) there was no better practicable means than was in fact used
     to satisfy the duty in section 45J.

                                                                    [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Section 45H direction

 45H.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) any egregious content is being provided on an online
            communication service with a Singapore end-user link;
            and

       (b) Singapore end-users of the service can access the
            egregious content,

the Authority may give the provider of the online communication
service a written direction requiring the provider —

       (c) to do one or more of the following as the Authority
            considers appropriate:

               (i) to disable access to the egregious content on its
                   service by Singapore end-users who use or may use
                   the service;

              (ii) to stop delivery or communication of content to an
                   account or accounts of —

                    (A) all Singapore end-users of the service; or

                     (B) any particular group of end-users comprising
                          one or more Singapore end-users of the
                          service,

              (ii) so as to stop or reduce the communication, provision
                   or access, or further communication, provision or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
65  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    access, by Singapore end-users of egregious content
    on the online communication service; and

    (d) to do so within the period specified in the written direction,
         or any extension of that period that the Authority may
         allow in any particular case.

(2) To avoid doubt, a requirement in subsection (1)(c)(ii) —

    (a) may include requiring altering, terminating or suspending
         any functionality of the service provided to the Singapore
         end-user concerned; but

    (b) must not require the doing of any thing with respect to the
         provision of an online communication service to the whole
         or part of any area in Singapore.

 (3) In addition, a requirement in subsection (1)(c) must not relate to
any user-generated content that is communication between 2 or more
end-users that is of a private or domestic nature.

 (4) The egregious content must be, so far as is reasonably
practicable, identified by the Authority in a section 45H direction
in a way that is sufficient to enable the provider concerned to comply
with the direction.

(5) In this section, “account” includes —

    (a) a free account;

    (b) a prepaid account; and

    (c) anything that may reasonably be regarded as the equivalent
        of an account.

                                                                        [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Section 45I blocking direction

 45I.—(1) This section applies to a provider of an internet access
service.

 (2) If the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) a provider of an online communication service with a
            Singapore end-user link which is given a section 45H
            direction fails to comply with the direction; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     66

(b) the internet access service has control over access by
     Singapore end-users of the online communication service
     to content provided on that online communication service,

the Authority may direct the provider of the internet access service to
stop access by Singapore end-users to the online communication
service.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Duty to comply

 45J.—(1) Every provider of an online communication service or an
internet access service to whom is given a section 45H direction or
section 45I blocking direction, has the duty to take all reasonably
practicable steps to comply with the direction given to the provider.

 (2) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a provider of an
online communication service or an internet access service provider,
or an officer, employee or agent of such a provider, for anything done
or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in
complying with a section 45H direction or section 45I blocking
direction given to the provider.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

       Division 3 — Regulated online communication services

Regulated online communication service

 45K.—(1) The Authority may designate an online communication
service with a Singapore end-user link as a regulated online
communication service with effect from a date specified in that
order if the Authority, after taking into account —

       (a) the range of all online communication services provided to
            Singapore end-users; and

       (b) the extent and nature of the effect that the different types of
            online communication services have on the people of
            Singapore and her different communities,

is satisfied that the online communication service should be a
regulated online communication service in furtherance of the
purposes in section 45A.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
67  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) The Authority must cause notice of every designation under
subsection (1) to the public by causing it to be published in any other
manner that the Authority considers will secure adequate publicity
for the designation.

 (3) A designation under subsection (1) may be revoked at any time
by the Authority by instrument in writing; and the Authority must
give notice, or cause the giving of notice, of the revocation in the
same manner in which the designation was first given.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the non-publication of any notice of a
designation under subsection (1), or its revocation, in the manner
described in subsection (2) does not affect the validity of the
designation or revocation, as the case may be.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Online Code of Practice for regulated online communication
service

 45L.—(1) Without limiting section 6, the Authority may, from time
to time and in accordance with rules made under subsection (2) —

       (a) issue one or more online Codes of Practice applicable to
            providers of any regulated online communication service
            or specified types of such providers; and

       (b) amend or revoke any online Code of Practice issued under
            paragraph (a),

with respect to all or any of the matters in subsection (4) relating to
the provision of that regulated online communication service.

 (2) The Minister may make rules prescribing the manner or form of
procedure to be followed in connection with the preparation and
issuing of online Codes of Practice applicable to providers of
regulated online communication services, and any amendment or
revocation of any such Code of Practice, including rules requiring the
Authority —

       (a) to give prior notice of any draft online Code of Practice
            proposed to apply to providers of any regulated online
            communication service or particular regulated online
            communication service (including a draft Code of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     68

          Practice that is to replace an online Code of Practice in
          force) or any proposal of amendments to or revocation of
          an online Code of Practice in force;

(b) to specify the place or places where copies of any draft
     online Code of Practice or the proposed amendment or
     revocation may be inspected;

          (c) to invite objections and representations in connection with
              the draft online Code of Practice or the proposed
              amendment or revocation; and

(d) to consider or inquire into all or any of those objections and
     representations where made in accordance with the rules.

 (3) If any provision in any online Code of Practice issued or
amended under subsection (1) is inconsistent with any provision of
this Act or the Part 10A regulations, that provision in that Code —

(a) is to have effect subject to this Act and the Part 10A
     regulations; or

(b) having regard to the provisions of this Act and the Part 10A
     regulations, does not have effect.

 (4) An online Code of Practice issued or amended under this section
applicable to providers of any regulated online communication
service or specified types of such providers may provide for all or any
of the following:

(a) requirements that a provider of the regulated online
     communication service must, by establishing and
     applying appropriate systems or processes, provide the
     service in a way that —

          (i) prevents Singapore end-users of its service
              (particularly children of different age groups) from
              accessing content that presents a material risk of
              significant harm to them; and

          (ii) mitigates and manages the risks of danger to
               Singapore end-users of its service (particularly
               children of different age groups) from content
               provided or that may be provided on its service;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
69  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) any matter so as to provide practical guidance or certainty
         in respect of what content does or does not present a
         material risk of significant harm to Singapore end-users
         generally or certain types of Singapore end-users of the
         service;

    (c) the procedures to be followed by a provider of the
        regulated online communication service so as to satisfy
        the duty under section 45M to comply with the online Code
        of Practice applicable to that provider, which may
        include —

    (i) undergoing (at its own cost) such audit as the
        Authority may require to ascertain the provider’s
        compliance with the provisions of the online Code of
        Practice applicable to the provider;

    (ii) reporting to the Authority, periodically or whenever
         requested by the Authority, information about the
         measures taken by the provider to ensure that
         Singapore end-users are able to use the regulated
         online communication service in a safe manner; or

    (iii) conducting risk assessments on the systemic risks
          brought about by or relating to the functioning and
          use of their services and taking reasonable and
          effective measures aimed at mitigating those risks;

    (d) a requirement for collaboration or cooperation by the
         provider of the regulated online communication service
         with any conduct of research into its regulated online
         communication service by a suitable expert or experts
         approved by the Authority, so as to assist in developing the
         Authority’s understanding of —

    (i) the nature and level of the systemic risks brought
        about by or relating to the functioning and use of the
        regulated online communication service; and

    (ii) the evolution and severity of such online systemic
         risks;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     70

          (e) any matter that promotes or furthers any purpose in
              section 45A.

                                                                              [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Duty of regulated online communication service provider

 45M.—(1) Every provider of a regulated online communication
service has the duty to take all reasonably practicable steps to comply
with the online Code of Practice applicable to the provider in the
provision of the regulated online communication service.

 (2) Where it is alleged for the purposes of this Act that any provider
of a regulated online communication service failed to comply with
the duty under subsection (1), it is for the provider to show that —

       (a) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
            in fact done to satisfy that duty; and

       (b) there was no better practicable means than was in fact used
            to satisfy that duty.

 (3) A requirement of an online Code of Practice applicable to a
provider of a regulated online communication service has effect
despite —

       (a) any duty of confidentiality or privacy imposed by any rule
            of law; or

       (b) any duty imposed by any contract or any rule of
            professional conduct,

that prevents the provider from complying with that requirement or
restricts the provider in such compliance.

 (4) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by a provider of a
regulated online communication service or an officer, employee or
agent of such a provider, for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act
is done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith
and for the purpose of complying with or giving effect to a
requirement of the online Code of Practice.

 (5) An online Code of Practice otherwise does not have legislative
effect.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
71                 Broadcasting Act 1994                      2020 Ed.

Regulatory action

 45N.—(1) Subject to section 45O, if the Authority is satisfied that a
provider of a regulated online communication service (called in this
section and section 45O the defaulting provider) has failed to satisfy
the duty under section 45M(1), the Authority may —

    (a) order the defaulting provider to pay, within a period
         specified in the order, a financial penalty of any amount
         that the Authority thinks fit, but not exceeding $1 million;
         or

    (b) direct the defaulting provider to take any steps, whether in
         or outside Singapore, and within a specified time, that may
         be necessary to remedy the failure.

 (2) A defaulting provider that does not comply with a direction
given to the defaulting provider under subsection (1)(b) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), it is immaterial whether the
online communication service concerned is provided from outside
Singapore or provided in or from Singapore.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Procedure for regulatory action under section 45N

 45O.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 45N(1) in
relation to any defaulting provider of a regulated online
communication service, the Authority must give written notice to
the defaulting provider —

       (a) stating that the Authority intends to take regulatory action
            against the defaulting provider;

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 45N(1) the
            Authority proposes to take, and each instance of non-
            compliance that is the subject of the action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days from the date of
            service of notice on the defaulting provider) within which

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     72

          written representations may be made to the Authority with
          respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The Authority may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (1)(c), decide to take any regulatory action in
section 45N(1) that the Authority considers appropriate.

 (3) Where the Authority has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any defaulting provider, the Authority must
serve on the defaulting provider concerned a notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to section 59(2), a decision which is specified in the
notice given under subsection (3) takes effect from the date on which
that notice is given, or on any other date that may be specified in the
decision.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

         Division 4 — Administrative and general provisions

Regulations

 45P.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations which are required or permitted to be prescribed by
this Part or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Part.

 (2) All subsidiary legislation made under this Part must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Incorporation by reference

 45Q.—(1) Any subsidiary legislation made under this Part or any
online Code of Practice may make provision for or in relation to a
matter by applying, adopting or incorporating by reference, with or
without modification, any material contained in any standard, rule,
requirement, specification or other document, as in force at a
particular time or from time to time, which relates to any matter with
which the subsidiary legislation or online Code of Practice deals,
even if the standard, rule, requirement, specification or other
document does not yet exist when the subsidiary legislation or
online Code of Practice is made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
73  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) Any material referred to in subsection (1) may be applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in any subsidiary legislation
made under this Part or any online Code of Practice —

    (a) in whole or in part; or

    (b) with modifications, additions, or variations specified in the
         subsidiary legislation or online Code of Practice, as the
         case may be.

 (3) A copy of any material applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any subsidiary legislation made under this Part or any
online Code of Practice, including any amendment to, or replacement
of, the material, must be —

    (a) certified as a correct copy of the material by the Minister or
         the Authority, as the case may be; and

    (b) retained by the Authority.

 (4) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated in any subsidiary
legislation made under this Part or any online Code of Practice by
reference under subsection (1) is to be treated for all purposes as
forming part of the subsidiary legislation or online Code of Practice;
and, unless otherwise provided in the subsidiary legislation or online
Code of Practice, every amendment to any material incorporated by
reference under subsection (1) that is made by the person or
organisation originating the material is, subject to subsections (5)
and (6), to be treated as being a part of that subsidiary legislation or
online Code of Practice, as the case may be.

 (5) Where any material referred to in subsection (1) is applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in any subsidiary legislation
made under this Part or any online Code of Practice, the Authority
must give notice in the Gazette stating —

    (a) that the material is incorporated in the subsidiary
         legislation made under this Part or online Code of
         Practice and the date on which the relevant provision in
         the subsidiary legislation or online Code of Practice was
         made;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     74

(b) that the material is available for inspection during working
     hours, free of charge;

          (c) the place where the material can be inspected without
              charge;

(d) that copies of the material can be purchased;

          (e) the place where copies of the material can be purchased;
              and

          (f) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
              details of where or how the material can be accessed or
              obtained.

 (6) In this section, “modification” includes omissions, additions
and substitutions.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Interface with other laws and civil liability

 45R.—(1) To avoid doubt, section 26(1) of the Electronic
Transactions Act 2010 (which relates to the limitation of liability
against network service providers) applies in relation to any liability
under this Part other than liability under section 45E, 45F or 45N.

 (2) Nothing in section 45J or 45M is to be construed —

       (a) as conferring a right of action in any civil proceedings in
            respect of any contravention of any provision of this Part or
            an online Code of Practice; or

       (b) as conferring a defence to an action in any civil
            proceedings or as otherwise affecting a right of action in
            any civil proceedings.

 (3) For the purposes of sections 45E(1), 45F(1), 45H and 45I, a
person is to be disregarded as a Singapore end-user using an online
communication service if the person accesses content in any of the
following circumstances:

       (a) the accessing of the content is necessary for enforcing this
            Act or any other written law;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
75  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) the accessing of the content is necessary for monitoring
         compliance with, or investigating a contravention of, this
         Act or any other written law;

    (c) the accessing of the content is solely for the purposes of
        proceedings in a Singapore court or tribunal;

    (d) the accessing of the content is both —

    (i) necessary and solely for, or of assistance in,
        conducting scientific, medical, academic or
        historical research; and

    (ii) reasonable in the circumstances for the purpose of
         conducting that scientific, medical, academic or
         historical research.

                                                              [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Modification of section 50

 45S.—(1) Where the person that commits an offence under
section 50(2) or (3) is a provider of a regulated online
communication service and with respect to documents or
information relating to that service, that person shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million despite section 50(4).

 (2) The power under section 50(1) to require the provision of
documents relating to an online communication service includes
power to require the production of documents held outside Singapore.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Interpretation of this Part
 45T.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “advocate”, in relation to any conduct, means counsel, promote,
         encourage or urge the engaging in that conduct;
      “child” means an individual who is below 18 years of age;
      “functionality”, in relation to an online communication service,
         has the meaning given by section 2A;
      “harm” includes harm to an individual’s mental health;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.     Broadcasting Act 1994                                  76

“section 45H direction” means a direction given under
   section 45H to a provider of an online communication
   service, and includes such a direction that is varied under
   section 59(3) on appeal;

“section 45I blocking direction” means a direction given under
   section 45I to a provider of an internet access service, and
   includes such a direction varied under section 59(3) on
   appeal;

“social media service” means an electronic service that satisfies
   all the following characteristics:

          (a) the sole or primary purpose of the service is to enable
               online interaction or linking between 2 or more end-
               users (including enabling end-users to share content
               for social purposes);

          (b) the service allows end-users to communicate content
               on the service;

          (c) any other characteristics that are prescribed by Part
              10A regulations;

“system or process” includes —

          (a) a human or an automated system or process; and

          (b) any technology;

“user-generated content” has the meaning given by section 2A.

 (2) To avoid doubt, “content” in this Part includes user-generated
content.

(3) Where —

(a) by or under any provision of this Part or any Part 10A
     regulations or any direction given under this Part, an act or
     a thing is required or directed to be done within a particular
     period or before a particular time, or any extended period
     or time that the Authority may allow;

(b) failure to do that act or thing within the period or before the
     time mentioned in paragraph (a) constitutes an offence;
     and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
77  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) that act or thing is not done within the period or before the
        time mentioned in paragraph (a),

the obligation to do that act or thing continues, even though that
period has expired or that time has passed, until that act or thing is
done.

 (4) For the purposes of this Part, an online communication service
has a Singapore end-user link if, and only if, all or any of the end-
users of that service are Singapore end-users.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

                                    PART 11

                     OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Offences relating to licensable broadcasting services

 46. Any person who contravenes section 8(1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$200,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Offences relating to installation, sale, import or possession of
broadcasting apparatus

 47. Any person who contravenes section 20(1)(a), (b) or (c) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3
years or to both, and any broadcasting apparatus installed or found in
the possession of the person so convicted shall be forfeited to the
Authority.

Offences relating to unauthorised decoders and unauthorised
reception of encrypted programmes

 48.—(1) A person must not manufacture, assemble, modify,
import, export, sell, offer for sale, let for hire or otherwise
distribute any decoder which the person knows is an unauthorised
decoder.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     78

 (2) A person must not wilfully receive or rebroadcast any encrypted
programme which has been decoded without the authorisation of the
lawful provider of a broadcasting service who had broadcast the
programme.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both, and any unauthorised decoder shall be forfeited to
the Authority.

 (4) Where it is proved that a person has manufactured, assembled,
modified, imported, exported, sold, offered for sale, let for hire or
otherwise distributed any unauthorised decoder, it is presumed,
unless there is evidence to the contrary, that the person knew that the
decoder was an unauthorised decoder.

(5) In this section and section 48A —

“decoder” means any apparatus or device (including a computer
   program) or any component or part thereof which is designed
   or adapted to enable (whether on its own or with any other
   apparatus or device) an encrypted programme to be decoded;

“lawful provider”, in relation to a broadcasting service,
   means —

          (a) a person who holds a broadcasting licence; or

          (b) in the case of a broadcasting service transmitted from
               a place outside Singapore, the person who is
               authorised to provide the broadcasting service in
               accordance with the laws of that place;

“unauthorised decoder” means a decoder which is designed or
   adapted to enable an encrypted programme to be viewed in
   decoded form without the authorisation of the lawful
   provider of a broadcasting service who had broadcast the
   programme.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
79                Broadcasting Act 1994                       2020 Ed.

Civil action in relation to unauthorised decoders and decoded
programmes

48A.—(1) Where —

    (a) a person does an act mentioned in section 48(1) in relation
         to an unauthorised decoder;

    (b) the unauthorised decoder is used to decode an encrypted
         programme; and

    (c) the lawful provider of a broadcasting service who had
        broadcast the encrypted programme or the owner of the
        copyright in the programme has thereby suffered any loss
        or damage,

the lawful provider of the broadcasting service or the owner of the
copyright in the programme (as the case may be) may bring a civil
action against the person mentioned in paragraph (a).

(2) Where —

    (a) a person does an act mentioned in section 48(2) in relation
         to an encrypted programme that has been decoded without
         the authorisation of the lawful provider of a broadcasting
         service who had broadcast the programme; and

    (b) the lawful provider of the broadcasting service or the
         owner of the copyright in the programme has thereby
         suffered any loss or damage,

the lawful provider of the broadcasting service or the owner of the
copyright in the programme (as the case may be) may bring a civil
action against the person mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (3) An action must not be brought under subsection (1) or (2) after
the expiry of 6 years from the time the relevant act under
section 48(1) or (2) (as the case may be) took place.

Offence of hindering employee or agent of Authority

 49. Any person who obstructs or hinders any employee or agent of
the Authority acting in the discharge of the employee’s or agent’s
duty under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     80

Power of Authority to requisition information

 50.—(1) The Authority or any person the Authority authorises in
that behalf may by notice require any person to provide the Authority
or the person so authorised, within the period specified in the notice,
with all such documents or information relating to all such matters as
the Authority may require for the purposes of this Act and as are
within that person’s knowledge or in that person’s custody or under
that person’s control.

 (2) Any person who, on being required by any notice under
subsection (1) to provide any document or information, fails to
comply with any requirement of the notice shall be guilty of an
offence.

(3) Any person who —

(a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
     which the person has been required by any notice under
     subsection (1) to provide; or

(b) in providing any estimate, return or other information
     required of the person under any notice under
     subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
     knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly
     makes any statement which is false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (2) or (3) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Power of police officer and other authorised persons against
unlicensed broadcasting service or apparatus

 51.—(1) Any police officer or any employee authorised by the
Authority may, if he or she has reasonable grounds for believing
that —

       (a) a broadcasting service has been or is being provided in
            contravention of this Act;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
81  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) a broadcasting service has been or is being provided in
         breach of any licence; or

    (c) any broadcasting apparatus used is not licensed by the
        Authority,

enter and inspect any premises and seize any broadcasting apparatus
found in the premises which appears to be used for or in connection
with broadcasting.

 (2) If there is no prosecution with regard to any broadcasting
apparatus seized under this section, such broadcasting apparatus is to
be taken and deemed to be forfeited to the Authority unless a claim is
made within 2 months from the date of seizure.

 (3) Any person asserting that the person is the owner of any
broadcasting apparatus so seized may personally or by the person’s
authorised agent give written notice to the Authority that the person
claims the broadcasting apparatus.

 (4) On receiving the notice, the Authority may direct that the
broadcasting apparatus be released or may refer the matter to a
District Court or a Magistrate’s Court.

 (5) The District Court or the Magistrate’s Court may proceed to the
examination of the matter and upon examination is to order that the
broadcasting apparatus be forfeited or released.

Power of arrest and search

 52.—(1) The Chief Executive or any employee of the Authority the
Chief Executive authorises to act under this section may arrest
without warrant —

       (a) any person found committing or attempting to commit or
            employing or aiding any person to commit an arrestable
            offence under this Act; or

       (b) any person against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that
            the person has been guilty of an arrestable offence under
            this Act,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     82

and may search any person so arrested, except that a female must not
be searched except by a female.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (2) Every person so arrested must, together with any article as to
which an offence may have been committed or attempted to be
committed, be taken to a police station.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, offences punishable under
sections 30, 46, 47 and 48 are deemed to be arrestable offences within
the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

No entitlement to costs or damages

 53. No person is entitled, in any proceedings before any court in
respect of any apparatus, equipment, article, book or document seized
in the exercise or the purported exercise of any power conferred under
this Act, to the costs of the proceedings or to any damages or other
relief other than an order for the return of the apparatus, equipment,
article, book or document or the payment of their value unless the
seizure was made without reasonable or probable cause.

Offence against other laws

 54. Nothing in this Act prevents any person —

       (a) from being prosecuted under any other written law for any
            act or omission which constitutes an offence under that
            law; or

       (b) from being liable under that other written law to any
            punishment or penalty higher or other than that provided
            by this Act,

but no person is to be punished twice for the same offence.

Conduct of proceedings by officers

 55. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act may, with
the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by an officer
of the Authority or an officer of the Government authorised in writing
in that behalf by the Chief Executive.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
83  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

Corporate offenders and unincorporated associations

 56.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved to have been committed with the consent or
connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, an
officer of the body corporate, the officer as well as the body corporate
shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of the body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Proceedings for an offence alleged to have been committed
under this Act by an unincorporated association must be brought
against the association in its own name (and not in that of any of its
members) and, for the purposes of these proceedings, any rules of
court relating to service of documents have effect as if the association
were a corporation.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or
to be attributable to any neglect on the part of, a partner, the partner as
well as the partnership shall be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (5) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved to
have been committed with the consent or connivance of, or to be
attributable to any neglect on the part of, an officer of the association
or a member of its governing body, the officer or member as well as
the association shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (6) Without limiting section 66, the Authority may make
regulations to provide for the application of any provision of this
section, with such modifications as the Authority considers
appropriate, to a body corporate or an unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a country or territory outside
Singapore.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.               Broadcasting Act 1994                        84

(7) In this section —

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means a director,
               member of the committee of management, chief
               executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
               of the body corporate, or a person purporting to act in
               any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the secretary
               and members of the committee of the unincorporated
               association and includes persons holding positions
               analogous to those of president, secretary or member
               of such a committee;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Composition of offences

 57.—(1) The Authority may compound any offence under this Act
which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from the
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding $1,000.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing the offences which may be compounded.

Jurisdiction of court

 58. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
85                  Broadcasting Act 1994                     2020 Ed.

                             PART 12

    MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Appeal to Minister

 59.—(1) Any licensee, any provider of an online communication
service or any provider of an internet access service (as the case may
be) aggrieved by —

    (a) any decision of the Authority in the exercise of any
         discretion vested in it by or under this Act; or

    (b) anything contained in any Code of Practice or direction
         issued by the Authority,

may appeal to the Minister.

                                           [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

 (2) Unless otherwise provided, where an appeal is made under this
section, the decision, direction or other thing appealed against must
be complied with until the appeal is determined.

 (3) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction of the
Authority or by amending any Code of Practice.

(4) The decision of the Minister in any appeal is final.

 (5) In relation to the Minister determining an appeal against any
online Code of Practice issued or any direction given by, or the
exercise of any discretion vested in, the Authority under Part 10A,
sections 45H, 45I, 45K, 45L(3) and (4) and 45N(1) apply as if the
reference to the Authority in any limit as to any online Code of
Practice issued or any direction given by, or the exercise of any
discretion under those respective sections, were a reference to the
Minister.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Exemption

 60. The Minister may, subject to any terms and conditions that the
Minister may impose, by order in the Gazette, exempt —

       (a) any class or description of shares or interests in shares from
            section 35 or 36 or both; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     86

(b) any person or class of persons from all or any of the
     provisions of this Act or any subsidiary legislation made
     under this Act.

Equipment of licensee not subject to distress, etc.

 61.—(1) No equipment or related facility of a licensee used for
providing, transmitting or delivering licensable broadcasting services
shall be subject to distress or be liable to be taken under or pursuant to
an enforcement order under any process of a court in any bankruptcy
or insolvency proceedings by any person without the prior approval
of the Minister in writing.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) This section does not apply to any class licensee.

International dealings of Authority

 62. For the purposes of the conduct of any international broadcast
and subject to this Act, the Authority may enter into direct
communication, arrangement and agreement with the lawfully
constituted broadcasting authority of any country or with any duly
authorised international agency or organisation concerned with
broadcasting (as the case may be) for —

       (a) the purpose of providing facilities, fixing rates, arranging
            terms of payment or accounting;

       (b) operational, engineering or administrative purposes; or

       (c) any other purpose necessary to properly fulfil its functions
            under this Act.

Government’s right to determine international relations

 63.—(1) Nothing in section 62 is deemed to abrogate the right of
the Government at any time to determine its relations with any
country or with any international agency or organisation.

 (2) The Authority and each broadcasting licensee must so discharge
their responsibilities and conduct their business as to comply with and
fulfil all international agreements, conventions or undertakings
relating to broadcasting to which Singapore is a party.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
87                    Broadcasting Act 1994                   2020 Ed.

Service of documents

 64.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

    (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
         specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
         if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
         address or business address;

    (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
        adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
        business address with an adult apparently employed there;

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;

    (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
        person giving or serving the document as the fax number
        for the service of documents on the individual; or

    (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
        address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     88

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
     registered office or principal office in Singapore;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
              office or principal office in Singapore; or

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s last email address.

 (5) In addition, a document permitted or required by this Act to be
served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
     partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
     association (called in this section an addressee) by the
     addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
     document is available and how the addressee may use the
     addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
     document’s contents;

(b) where by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the name of
     any individual or a body of persons to whom the document
     is to be served, or the business address, residential address
     or last email address of the individual or body, cannot be
     ascertained — by posting it on a website that is maintained
     by the Authority and prescribed by the Minister by
     notification in the Gazette for this purpose; or

          (c) by any other method authorised by the regulations for the
              service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
              (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
              kind in that way.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
89                     Broadcasting Act 1994                  2020 Ed.

(6) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received — on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email — at the time that the
         email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to
         whom it is sent;

    (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post — 2 days
        after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
        undelivered); or

    (d) if the document is posted on a website mentioned in
         subsection (5)(b) — at the beginning of the day after the
         date on which subsection (5)(b) has been complied with.

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(9) In this section —

    “Act” includes any subsidiary legislation made under this Act;

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business, or place of
         employment, in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
       be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
       means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
       person giving or serving the document as the means by which
       the addressee may access that document’s contents;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     90

“chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
   is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
   means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
   the person giving or serving the document as the means by
   which the addressee may be notified that such a document
   has been served on the addressee;

“document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
   to be served;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                 [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Financial penalties, etc., payable to Consolidated Fund

 64A. All fines imposed under section 12(1) and all financial
penalties ordered under section 45N(1) —

       (a) may be recovered by the Authority in any court of
            competent jurisdiction as if they were simple contract
            debts; and

       (b) must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 38 of 2022 wef 01/02/2023]

Amendment of First, Second and Third Schedules

 65.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, at any
time amend the First, Second or Third Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any notification made under
subsection (1), make such incidental, consequential or
supplementary provisions as may be necessary or expedient.

Regulations

 66. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
91  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) required or permitted to be prescribed by this Act; and

    (b) necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or
         giving effect to the purposes of this Act.

67. [Repealed by Act 22 of 2016]

Transitional and saving provisions

 68.—(1) All acts done by the Singapore Broadcasting Authority
before 1 January 2003 continue to remain valid and applicable as
though done by the Authority, until the time invalidated, revoked,
cancelled or otherwise determined by the Authority.

 (2) Any decision, document, licence, consent, approval or
authorisation prepared, made, issued or granted by the Singapore
Broadcasting Authority under the Singapore Broadcasting Authority
Act (Cap. 297, 1995 Revised Edition) before 1 January 2003 is, so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, deemed to be a
decision, document, licence, consent, approval or authorisation
prepared, made, issued or granted by the Authority.

 (3) Where anything has been commenced by or on behalf of the
Singapore Broadcasting Authority before 1 January 2003, the thing
may be carried on and completed by or under the authority of the
Authority.

 (4) Despite the repeal of Part XI of the Singapore Broadcasting
Authority Act (Cap. 297, 1995 Revised Edition), as from 1 January
2003, sections 49 to 53 of that Act continue in force and to apply to
the broadcasting successor companies mentioned in those sections as
if that Part has not been repealed.

 (5) In this section, “broadcasting successor companies” means
companies nominated by the Minister for the purposes of the repealed
section 49 of the Singapore Broadcasting Authority Act (Cap. 297,
1995 Revised Edition).

                           FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                         Sections 2(1) and 65(1)

                          BROADCASTING APPARATUS
1. Television receive-only satellite receiving system (TVRO system).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
2020 Ed.  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     92

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

     In this Schedule, “television receive-only satellite receiving system” means
any apparatus (including a dish antenna) or any combination of apparatus capable
of direct reception of any broadcasting service emitted from or passing through
any communication or broadcast satellite in extraterrestrial space.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                           Sections 2(1) and 65(1)

                    LICENSABLE BROADCASTING SERVICES
  1. Free-to-air nationwide television services.
  2. Free-to-air localised television services.
  3. Free-to-air international television services.
  4. Subscription nationwide television services.
  5. Subscription localised television services.
  6. Subscription international television services.
  7. Special interest television services.
  8. Free-to-air nationwide radio services.
  9. Free-to-air localised radio services.
 10. Free-to-air international radio services.
 11. Subscription nationwide radio services.
 12. Subscription localised radio services.
 13. Subscription international radio services.
 14. Special interest radio services.
 15. Audiotext services.
 16. Videotext services.
 17. Teletext services.
 18. Video-on-demand services.
 19. Broadcast data services.
 20. Computer online services.
 For the purposes of this Schedule, a delivery system is not to be deemed to be a
licensable broadcasting service by reason only that facilities or expertise are
provided for the delivery of any broadcasting service.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
93  Broadcasting Act 1994                                     2020 Ed.

                     THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                              Sections 31(6) and 65(1)

    RELEVANT LICENSABLE BROADCASTING SERVICE

                First column                      Second column
                                                     Provider
    Licensable broadcasting service
                                       (a) StarHub Cable Vision Ltd.
1. Subscription nationwide television
   service                             (b) SingNet Pte. Ltd.

    FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                       Sections 2A(1), 2B(1), 2C and 2D(1)
                                                                            and (4)

                                          PART 1
                     ONLINE COMMUNICATION SERVICES
1. Social media service.
2. App distribution service.

                                          PART 2

                                      DEFINITIONS

1. In this Schedule —

    “app” means an application software package that includes content
        accessible by end-users, or allows end-users to access content on the
        Internet through the installed application software;

    “app distribution service” means an electronic service (that is accessible by
        Singapore end-users) that is provided for the purpose of enabling end-
        users to download an app where the download of the app is by means of
        access to the Internet.

                                                                                  [S 738/2024 wef 25/09/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                      BROADCASTING ACT 1994

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
           BROADCASTING AND TELEVISION ACT
            (CHAPTER 28, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 16 of 1963 — Broadcasting and Television Ordinance, 1963

Bill           : 208/1963

First Reading  : 13 June 1963

Second and Third Readings : 24 July 1963

Commencement   : 3 August 1963

2. 1970 Revised Edition — Broadcasting and Television Act (Chapter 83)

Operation      : 1 April 1971

3. Act 7 of 1975 — Broadcasting and Television (Amendment) Act, 1975

Bill           : 1/1975

First Reading  : 25 February 1975

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1975

Commencement   : 30 April 1975

4. Act 33 of 1979 — Singapore Broadcasting Corporation Act, 1979
   (Amendments made by section 50 read with the Second Schedule to the above
   Act)

Bill           : 31/1979

First Reading  : 7 September 1979

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
                         ii

Second Reading           : 21 September 1979

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 6 of 1979

Third Reading            : 11 December 1979

Commencement             : 1 February 1980 (section 50 read with
                               the Second Schedule)

5. 1985 Revised Edition — Broadcasting and Television Act (Chapter 28)

Operation                : 30 March 1987

                             PART 2
                BROADCASTING ACT 1994
                 (2020 REVISED EDITION)

6. Act 15 of 1994 — Singapore Broadcasting Authority Act 1994

Bill                     : 20/1994

First Reading            : 25 July 1994

Second and Third Readings : 26 August 1994

Commencement             : 1 October 1994

7. 1995 Revised Edition — Singapore Broadcasting Authority Act
                                    (Chapter 297)

Operation                : 15 March 1995

8. G.N. No. S 308/1996 — Singapore Broadcasting Authority Act
                                   (Amendment of Second Schedule)
                                   Notification 1996

Commencement             : 15 July 1996

9. Act 41 of 1999 — Info-communications Development Authority of
                           Singapore Act 1999

   (Amendments made by section 31(1) read with the Fourth Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                     : 36/1999

First Reading            : 11 October 1999

Second and Third Readings : 23 November 1999

Commencement             : 1 December 1999 (section 31(1) read
                               with the Fourth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
               iii

10. Act 18 of 2001 — Singapore Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act
                             2001

Bill           : 19/2001

First Reading  : 15 March 2001

Second and Third Readings : 19 April 2001

Commencement   : 21 May 2001

11. Act 42 of 2001 — Securities and Futures Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 343 read with item (12) of the Fourth Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill           : 33/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 July 2002 (section 343 read with
                     item (12) of the Fourth Schedule)

12. Act 5 of 2002 — Statutory Corporations (Capital Contribution) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 3 read with item (37) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 7/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 15 July 2002 (section 3 read with
                     item (37) of the Schedule)

13. Act 19 of 2002 — Singapore Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act
                             2002

Bill           : 19/2002

First Reading  : 23 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement   : 2 September 2002

14. Act 34 of 2002 — Media Development Authority of Singapore Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 66 of the above Act)

Bill           : 37/2002

First Reading  : 1 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 2002

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
               iv

Commencement   : 1 January 2003 (section 66)

Note: The Singapore Broadcasting Authority Act was renamed as the
        Broadcasting Act by this Act.

15. 2003 Revised Edition — Broadcasting Act (Chapter 28)

Operation      : 31 July 2003

16. Act 55 of 2004 — Broadcasting (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill           : 50/2004

First Reading  : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 16 November 2004

Commencement   : 1 January 2005

17. Act 10 of 2005 — Telecommunications (Amendment) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 32 of the above Act)

Bill           : 67/2004

First Reading  : 24 November 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement   : 16 February 2005 (section 32)

18. Act 21 of 2005 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 58 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 11/2005

First Reading  : 18 April 2005

Second and Third Readings : 16 May 2005

Commencement   : 30 January 2006 (section 58 read with
                     item (3) of the Schedule)

19. G.N. No. S 559/2010 — Broadcasting Act (Amendment of Third
                                    Schedule) Notification 2010

Commencement   : 1 October 2010

20. G.N. No. S 549/2012 — Broadcasting Act (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                   Notification 2012

Commencement   : 1 January 2011

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
                       v

21. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 8 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                   : 11/2010

First Reading          : 26 April 2010

Second Reading         : 18 May 2010

Third Reading          : 19 May 2010

Commencement           : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                             item 8 of the Sixth Schedule)

22. 2012 Revised Edition — Broadcasting Act (Chapter 28)

Operation              : 31 August 2012

23. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                             Act 2016

     (Amendments made by section 93 of the above Act)

Bill                   : 21/2016

First Reading          : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement           : 1 October 2016 (section 93)

24. 2020 Revised Edition — Broadcasting Act 1994

Operation              : 31 December 2021

25. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement           : 13 January 2022

26. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 84 of the above Act)

Bill                   : 18/2021

First Reading          : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement           : 1 April 2022

27. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Date of First Reading  : 12 September 2022
                             (Bill No. 24/2022)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
                          vi

Date of Second and Third  : 3 October 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2022 (section 23(1))

28. Act 38 of 2022 — Online Safety (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 28/2022

First Reading             : 3 October 2022

Second and Third Readings : 9 November 2022

Commencement              : 1 February 2023

29. Act 4 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008

Bill                      : 49/2007

First Reading             : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement              : 1 April 2024

30. G.N. No. S 738/2024 — Broadcasting Act 1994 (Amendment of Fourth
                                    Schedule) Order 2024

Date of commencement      : 25 September 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
.                                 vii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
  COMPARATIVE TABLE
BROADCASTING ACT 1994

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
—                          57—(3)[Deleted by Act 22 of 2016]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 25/9/2024
