THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            SHARED MOBILITY ENTERPRISES
                (CONTROL AND LICENSING)
                               ACT 2020

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                                                                    2020 Ed.

         Shared Mobility Enterprises
           (Control and Licensing)
                    Act 2020

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of “shared mobility service” and associated terms
     2.  Purposes of Act
     3.  Application of Act
     4.  Administration of Act
     5.  Authorised officers
     6.
     7.

                                       PART 2
                       UNAUTHORISED ACTIVITIES

8. Unauthorised shared mobility service
9. Unauthorised vehicle used for shared mobility services

                                        PART 3

               SHARED MOBILITY SERVICES LICENSING

                               Division 1 — Licences

10. Application for or to renew licence
11. Grant of licences
12. Periodic fee for licence and licence validity
13. Conditions of licences
14. Modifying conditions of licence
15. Modifying licence conditions on licensee’s application
16. Restriction on transfer and surrender of licence

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 2

          Division 2 — Class licences

Section   Class licence
          Variation and revocation of class licence
   17.    Conditions applicable to class licensee
   18.
   19.

                                        PART 4

                 BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS

           Division 1 — Management controls and record-keeping

20. Change in management of licensee
21. Accounts and statements
22. Record-keeping and giving information
23. Monitoring improper parking by hirers

           Division 2 — Standards of performance and directions

24. Standards of performance for licensees and class licensees
25. Directions affecting licensees and class licensees

                           Division 3 — Safety directives

26. Safety directives
27. How safety directive is given
28. General duty to comply with safety directives

                                        PART 5

                                  ENFORCEMENT

                          Division 1 — Regulatory action

29. Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence or class licence
30. Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.
31. Proceedings for regulatory action

                        Division 2 — Enforcement powers

32. Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable by
         authorised officers

33. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
34. Powers in relation to vehicles
35. Power to obtain information
36. Offences
37. Composition of offences

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
         Shared Mobility Enterprises

         (Control and Licensing)

3        Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

         PART 6

         APPEALS

Section  Interpretation of this Part
         Appeal to Minister
   38.   Designation of others to hear appeals
   39.
   40.

                                           PART 7

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   41. Interface with other laws
   42. Recovery of fees and penalties
   43. Offences by corporations
   44. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   45. Jurisdiction of courts
   46. Service of documents
   47. General exemption
   48. Regulations
   49. Presentation to Parliament

                                           PART 8
                                  FINAL PROVISIONS

   50. Saving and transitional provisions
            The Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions

An Act with respect to shared mobility services.

                                                               [22 July 2020]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and
Licensing) Act 2020.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.                Act 2020                                   4

General interpretation

2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

“applicant” means an applicant for or to renew a licence;

“authorised officer”, for any provision of this Act, means an
   officer or employee of the LTA who is appointed as an
   authorised officer under section 7 for the purposes of that
   provision;

“bicycle”, “power-assisted bicycle” and “personal mobility
   device” have the meanings given by the Active Mobility
   Act 2017;

“business” includes any business, whether or not carried on for
   profit;

“chief executive officer”, in relation to a licensee, means an
   individual (by whatever name described) who —

          (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
               arrangement with, the licensee; and

          (b) is principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of the business of the licensee insofar as it
               relates to providing a shared mobility service,

          and includes an individual for the time being performing all
          or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

“class licence” means a class licence determined under an order
   made under section 17(1) (including as varied under
   section 18);

“class licensee” means a person to which a class licence applies;

“corporation” means any body corporate formed or incorporated
   or existing in or outside Singapore and includes any foreign
   company within the meaning of the Companies Act 1967;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“general public” includes a section of the public;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
   Shared Mobility Enterprises

   (Control and Licensing)

5  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

   “granted” or “grant”, for a licence, includes granted or grant on
      renewal and deemed granted;

   “licence” means a licence granted under Part 3;

   “licensee” means a person to whom a licence is granted under
      this Act but does not include a class licensee;

   “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by the
      Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

   “LTA” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
      established under the Land Transport Authority of
      Singapore Act 1995;

   [Deleted by Act 5 of 2026 wef 04/05/2026]

   “mobility vehicle” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
      Active Mobility Act 2017;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2026 wef 04/052026]

   “modification” or “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
      licence, includes deleting or varying and substituting a
      condition, and adding a condition;

   “officer”, in relation to an applicant or a class licensee or
      licensee, means —

   (a) where the applicant, class licensee or licensee is a
        body corporate (including a limited liability
        partnership) —

   (i) an individual for the time being holding the
       office of chairperson, director, partner, chief
       executive officer, manager or company
       secretary (as the case may be) of the body or
       any position analogous to any of those offices;
       or

   (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
        its members, any of those members as if the
        member were a director of the corporation;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 6

          (b) where the applicant, class licensee or licensee is a
               partnership (including a limited partnership), a
               partner of the partnership; or

          (c) where the applicant, class licensee or licensee is an
              unincorporated association (other than a partnership),
              an individual for the time being holding the office of
              president, secretary or member (as the case may be)
              of the committee of the unincorporated association,
              or any position analogous to any of those offices,

          and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
          office referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if the office is
          vacant;

“park”, in respect of a vehicle, means to bring the vehicle to a
   stationary position and cause it to wait for any purpose;

“partner”, in relation to a limited partnership, includes a limited
   partner in the limited partnership;

“premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
   temporary) or part of such a building or structure, and
   includes any immediately adjoining space or land necessary
   for access to, or the enjoyment of occupants of, the building
   or structure;

“provider”, in relation to a shared mobility service, means the
   person who provides the shared mobility service;

“public authority” means —

          (a) any ministry, department or Organ of State of the
               Government; or

          (b) any body established by or under any public Act to
               perform a public function;

“public place” means any land or premises in Singapore —

          (a) which is, or is on —

          (i) any State land;

          (ii) any land under the control or management of a
               public authority; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
   Shared Mobility Enterprises

   (Control and Licensing)

7  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

   (iii) any land which is under lease from a public
         authority to another person other than another
         public authority or to the Government, and is
         prescribed by the Minister, by order in the
         Gazette, as a public place for the purposes of
         this Act; and

   (b) to which members of the public have access as of
        right or by virtue of express or implied permission
        and without payment of a fee,

   and includes a public path within the meaning given by the
   Active Mobility Act 2017;

   “public service vehicle” has the meaning given by the Road
      Traffic Act 1961;

   “Regulations” means any regulations made under section 48;

   “regulatory action” means any action that may be taken by the
      LTA —

   (a) under section 29(1) or (2) against a licensee or class
        licensee; or

   (b) under section 30(2) against a former licensee or
        former class licensee;

   “representative”, for a provider of a shared mobility service
      using a type of vehicle, means an individual (whether or not
      an employee or officer of the provider) who —

   (a) is directly involved in the day-to-day management of
        the provision of that shared mobility service;

   (b) has access to and is authorised to provide any
        information relating to the shared mobility service
        that is required by or under this Act; and

   (c) is authorised to represent for the purposes of this Act
       the provider of the shared mobility service in
       providing that service;

   “road” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Road Traffic
      Act 1961;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.                  Act 2020                                   8

“safety directive” means a directive given under section 26;

“safety incident”, in relation to a shared mobility service,
   means —

          (a) any situation where an individual —

          (i) dies as a result of an occurrence associated with
              the riding of a vehicle used in the provision of
              that service; or

          (ii) is injured or incapacitated as a result of an
               occurrence associated with the riding of a
               vehicle used in the provision of that service; or

          (b) any situation where any immovable property is
               destroyed or seriously damaged as a result of an
               occurrence associated with the riding of a vehicle
               used in the provision of that service,

          and “occurrence” includes an accident or a near‑accident;

“shared mobility service” has the meaning given by section 3;

“standard of performance” means a standard of performance
   issued or approved by the LTA under section 24, and includes
   any such standard of performance as amended from time to
   time under that section;

“under-aged rider” has the meaning given by the Active
   Mobility Act 2017;

“unincorporated association” means a society or body
   unincorporate which, under any written law, may sue or be
   sued, or hold property, in the name of an officer of the society
   or body duly appointed for that purpose;

“vehicle” means —

          (a) a bicycle;

          (b) a power-assisted bicycle;

          (c) a personal mobility device;

          (d) a mobility vehicle; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
   Shared Mobility Enterprises

   (Control and Licensing)

9  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

   (e) any other vehicle (whether mechanically propelled or
       otherwise) that is designed to transport people only
       (with or without carry‑on baggage) and is ordinarily
       not permitted by law to be used on a road,

   and does not include a motor car or motor cycle, a heavy or
   light locomotive, a motor tractor or a public service vehicle
   which is a bus, private hire car or taxi;

   “vehicle location device” means a device that is capable of
      transmitting signals about the approximate location of a
      vehicle for reception by another device.

 (2) In this Act, “improperly park a vehicle in a public place”, for a
type of vehicle, means parking, or permitting to remain at rest without
a rider, the vehicle undocked outside an area that is —

   (a) demarcated (by a marking or traffic sign or other
        signboard) for parking of vehicles of that type; and

   (b) provided by any licensee, class licensee, the Government
        or a public authority for the parking of vehicles of that
        type.

 (3) To avoid doubt, a reference in this Act to an offence under this
Act or a provision of this Act includes a reference to an offence under
the Regulations or to a provision of the Regulations, as the case may
be.

Meaning of “shared mobility service” and associated terms

 3.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “booking”, in relation to a shared mobility service, means a
         booking for a vehicle used in the provision of that service to
         be hired for riding by an individual on wholly or partly in a
         public place;

      “hire”, for a vehicle, does not include hiring the vehicle under a
         hire‑purchase agreement but includes any of the following:

              (a) the hire of a vehicle for use on a single occasion, or
                   the hire of a vehicle or different vehicles on multiple
                   occasions within a fixed period;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 10

          (b) the hire of the vehicle as a free gift, or with the supply
               of any other goods or services as a free gift;

          (c) the hire of the vehicle as a prize in any lottery, raffle,
              draw, game or competition held in Singapore;

          (d) the hire of the vehicle to the general public as a free
               example or demonstration of a shared mobility
               service;

          (e) the hire (with or without consideration) of the vehicle
              to an employee for the performance of employment
              duties or an outworker under an outwork
              arrangement;

“hirer” includes a prospective hirer of a vehicle;

“outwork arrangement” means a contract, an agreement,
   understanding or other arrangement of any kind (whether
   written or unwritten) with a contractor —

          (a) under which an individual (whether or not in the
               course of business or providing other services)
               performs work contracted to be performed under
               that contract, agreement, understanding or other
               arrangement for the contractor; and

          (b) that is not a contract of employment;

“outworker” means an individual who performs work under an
   outwork arrangement;

“provide a shared mobility service” means providing a shared
   mobility service in the course of business, whether or not the
   primary function of the business is connected to shared
   mobility services;

“shared mobility service” means —

          (a) a service provided using vehicles of a type prescribed
               by Regulations, under which an individual —

          (i) can hire on-demand a vehicle of that type when
              it is standing or exposed undocked in a public
              place for hire by the general public to ride on

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

11  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    wholly or partly in a public place, and can end
    the hiring of the vehicle undocked in or at any
    public place;

    (ii) can hire on-demand a vehicle of that type when
         it is standing or exposed undocked (whether or
         not in a public place) for hire by the general
         public or otherwise to ride on wholly or partly
         in a public place, and can end the hiring of the
         vehicle either undocked or docked in or at any
         place, whether or not a public place;

    (iii) can hire a docked vehicle of that type to ride on
          wholly or partly in a public place, and can end
          the hiring of the vehicle either undocked or
          docked in or at any place, whether or not a
          public place;

    (iv) can make a booking to hire as described in
         sub‑paragraph (i), (ii) or (iii) a vehicle of that
         type to ride on wholly or partly in a public
         place, whether immediately or at a later time; or

    (b) a service that involves facilitating the making and
         taking of bookings to hire as described in
         paragraph (a)(i), (ii) or (iii) any vehicle of a type
         prescribed by Regulations,

    but excludes any service of a kind that the Regulations
    prescribe is not a shared mobility service.

 (2) In this Act, a vehicle is treated as undocked if the vehicle is
parked or permitted to remain at rest without a rider in or at a place —

    (a) that is outdoors or in an unenclosed shelter; and

    (b) other than in or at a vehicle docking station or installation
         that —

    (i) is attached permanently to the ground; and

    (ii) is installed or provided by a person for the exclusive
         use of that person’s customers and can only be used
         by those customers.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 12

 (3) In this Act, a vehicle is treated as docked if the vehicle is parked
or permitted to remain at rest without a rider in circumstances not
described in subsection (2).

 (4) For the purpose of determining whether a person provides a
shared mobility service in Singapore, it does not matter —

(a) that a booking is obtained or communicated remotely by
     means of an electronic device or other means not directly
     provided by the person who provides the service; or

(b) that the provider of the shared mobility service is located
     outside Singapore, if the vehicle hired under that service is
     hired for riding wholly or partly within Singapore.

Purposes of Act

 4. The purposes of this Act are to regulate the provision of shared
mobility services so as —

       (a) to facilitate the delivery of safe, reliable, efficient and
            customer‑focused shared mobility services in Singapore;

       (b) to address indiscriminate parking of vehicles in public
            places arising from the provision of shared mobility
            services; and

       (c) to enable the development and operation of innovative and
            accessible shared mobility services which contribute to the
            mobility and safety of people in Singapore.

Application of Act

 5.—(1) This Act binds the Government, but nothing in this Act
renders the Government liable to prosecution for an offence under
this Act.

 (2) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government or is acting in any other similar
capacity for, or on behalf of, the Government.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

13                     Act 2020                              2020 Ed.

Administration of Act

 6.—(1) It is the function of the LTA to exercise licensing and
regulatory functions in accordance with this Act with respect to the
provision in Singapore of shared mobility services, and to otherwise
administer this Act.

 (2) No liability shall lie personally against any member, officer or
employee of the LTA or any other person acting under the direction of
the LTA for anything done or intended to be done in good faith and
with reasonable care in the execution or purported execution of this
Act.

Authorised officers

 7.—(1) The LTA may, in relation to any provision of this Act,
appoint any of its officers or employees to be an authorised officer for
the purposes of that provision, either generally or in a particular case.

 (2) The LTA may delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed upon it by any provision of this Act
(except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to any
authorised officer, subject to any conditions or limitations that the
LTA may specify; and any reference in that provision of this Act to
the LTA includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

                                    PART 2
                    UNAUTHORISED ACTIVITIES
Unauthorised shared mobility service
 8.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person provides in
Singapore a shared mobility service when the person —
       (a) is not authorised to do so by a licence or class licence; and
       (b) is not exempt from this section under section 47 in relation
            to that service.
 (2) The offence under subsection (1) is a strict liability offence.
 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 14

imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

(4) For the purposes of this section —

(a) a licensee is not authorised by its licence to provide a
     shared mobility service during the period the licence is
     suspended under section 29; and

(b) a class licensee is not authorised by its class licence to
     provide a shared mobility service during the period the
     application of the class licence to that class licensee is
     suspended under section 29.

Unauthorised vehicle used for shared mobility services

 9.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person provides in
Singapore a shared mobility service —

       (a) using vehicles which are the type, or the model of a type of
            vehicles, proscribed by Regulations; and

       (b) when the person is not exempt from this section under
            section 47 in relation to that service.

 (2) The offence under subsection (1) is a strict liability offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, it is not material whether the
accused is a licensee or class licensee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                   Shared Mobility Enterprises

                   (Control and Licensing)

15                 Act 2020                                  2020 Ed.

                   PART 3

    SHARED MOBILITY SERVICES LICENSING

                   Division 1 — Licences

Application for or to renew licence

 10.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to
the LTA in accordance with this section.

(2) An application for or to renew a licence must —

    (a) be in the form and manner the LTA specifies;

    (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed;

    (c) contain —

    (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
        documents under this Act for the applicant may be
        served; or

    (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
         Singapore authorised by the applicant to accept on
         the applicant’s behalf service of notices and other
         documents under this Act;

    (d) state the type of vehicle used or to be used in the provision
         of the shared mobility service; and

    (e) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
        other additional information that the LTA requires to
        decide on the application.

 (3) In addition, an application to renew a licence must be made no
later than a prescribed period before the date of expiry of the licence,
unless otherwise allowed by the LTA in any particular case which
must then be treated as a late renewal application.

 (4) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for or to renew a
licence —

    (a) that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this
         section;

    (b) where an inspection mentioned in subsection (5) in relation
         to the application is refused; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 16

          (c) where a safety directive is in force.

 (5) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a licence, the LTA
may carry out, or arrange to be carried out by any authorised officer,
such investigations and inquiries in relation to the application as the
LTA considers necessary for a proper consideration of the
application, which may include an inspection of either or both the
following:

(a) the land or premises on or at which the applicant intends
     either or both the following:

          (i) to provide the shared mobility service in the
              application;

          (ii) to place any vehicle or carry out any activity in
               connection with the provision of that shared mobility
               service;

(b) any vehicle, equipment or other thing which the applicant
     intends to use to provide the shared mobility service in the
     application.

 (6) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
for the grant of a licence —

(a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
     document or information in connection with the
     application, which is false in a material particular; and

(b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
     whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (7) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (6) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Grant of licences

 11.—(1) After considering any application under section 10 for or
to renew a licence, the LTA may —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

17                       Act 2020                            2020 Ed.

    (a) on payment of —

    (i) the applicable licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
        applicant a licence authorising the applicant to
        provide a shared mobility service; or

    (ii) a renewal fee and, in the case of a late renewal
         application a late renewal fee (if prescribed), renew
         the licence; or

    (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence, as the case may be.

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a licence, or
the applicant’s licence should be renewed, and the conditions to
impose or modify, the LTA must have regard, and give such weight as
the LTA considers appropriate, to all of the following matters:

    (a) whether the applicant is or is not —

    (i) intending to provide any other shared mobility
        service; or

    (ii) a holder of another licence or a class licensee;

    (b) the demand for the shared mobility service in the
         application;

    (c) the existence of other licensees providing a shared mobility
        service using the same type of vehicle proposed in the
        application;

    (d) the existence of other licensees providing a shared mobility
         service using other types of vehicles;

    (e) the design, safety and roadworthiness of the vehicles to be
        used by the applicant in providing the shared mobility
        service;

    (f) the adequacy of parking places for the type of vehicles
        proposed to be used in providing the shared mobility
        service in the application;

    (g) whether the applicant does or does not have (or is likely or
         unlikely to have) the financial capacity and ability to
         provide the shared mobility service in the application

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 18

          according to this Act and the applicable standards of
          performance;

(h) whether the applicant is a corporation, partnership, limited
     liability partnership or an unincorporated association;

          (i) whether the applicant and where necessary, whether every
              officer of the applicant is a suitable person to be involved
              in the management and operation of providing the shared
              mobility service in the application;

          (j) whether the applicant has nominated or will nominate at
              least one individual who satisfies the prescribed
              qualifications as a representative if a licence is granted;

          (k) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
              the licence to be granted to the applicant.

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person or an
individual mentioned in subsection (2)(i) is a suitable person to be
involved in the management and operation of providing a shared
mobility service, the LTA must have regard, and give such weight as
the LTA considers appropriate, to all of the following matters:

(a) the person’s or individual’s relevant knowledge,
     competency and experience in matters connected with
     providing such a service;

(b) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 29
     or 30 —

          (i) in relation to the person or individual for committing
              an offence under this Act, or for contravening any
              direction given under this Act; or

          (ii) in relation to a licensee holding, or a former licensee
               which held, a licence of which the individual is or
               was an officer when the power was exercised;

          (c) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 8P
              of the Parking Places Act 1974 (as in force before 22 July
              2020) in relation to a person holding a licence granted
              under Part 3 of that Act to provide a licensable service, of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

19  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    which the individual is or was an officer when that power
    was exercised;

    (d) any prior conviction for committing (whether before, on or
         after 22 July 2020) any of the following offences:

    (i) an offence under Part 3 of the Parking Places
        Act 1974 (or regulations made under that Part) as
        in force before 22 July 2020;

    (ii) an offence under this Act;

    (iii) an offence under section 32A of the Street Works
          Act 1995 or section 23B, 28 or 58A of the Active
          Mobility Act 2017;

    (iv) any other offence involving fraud or dishonesty,
         whether or not the conviction was in a Singapore
         court;

    (v) any relevant offence under any written law;

    (e) any previous occasion where the person or individual
        accepted any composition sum offered under any written
        law for an offence mentioned in paragraph (d).

 (4) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to consideration of the
matters specified in subsection (2) or (3) and may take into account
any other matters and evidence that may be relevant.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (1), the LTA may grant a renewal
of a licence (of any class) with or without modifying the conditions of
the licence, but section 14(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to or in
relation to granting a renewal of a licence with modifications to the
conditions of the licence.

 (6) The LTA may subdivide licences it grants under this section into
classes, such as according to any of the following, and may grant the
licence accordingly:

    (a) the construction or type of vehicle used in providing the
         shared mobility service authorised by the licence;

    (b) the type of shared mobility service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 20

          (c) the number of vehicles used or intended to be used in
              providing the shared mobility service authorised by the
              licence;

(d) the place where the shared mobility service is being or is to
     be provided.

Periodic fee for licence and licence validity

 12.—(1) Every licence granted under this Part is valid for the
period specified in the licence and is in force unless the licence is
earlier suspended or revoked under section 29.

 (2) For every period prescribed (which must not exceed the validity
of a licence), the licensee granted that licence must pay to the LTA,
not later than the date prescribed, a periodic fee prescribed for that
licence.

 (3) If a licensee fails to pay the periodic fee in accordance with
subsection (2), the LTA may, by written notice, require the licensee to
make good the default.

 (4) Every licence must be in the form the LTA determines.

Conditions of licences

 13.—(1) In granting a licence to any person, the LTA may impose
any conditions that the LTA considers requisite or expedient having
regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a licence to a provider of a shared
mobility service, the LTA may impose conditions —

       (a) fixing the type of vehicles which may be made available by
            the licensee for hiring in the provision of the shared
            mobility service authorised by the licence;

       (b) fixing the maximum or minimum number, or both, of the
            vehicles which the licensee, during the validity period of
            the licence or any part of that period —

               (i) may offer or expose for hiring; or

              (ii) may allow the hiring of which to end undocked,

       (b) or both;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

21  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) fixing the area in Singapore within which the licensee may
        provide the shared mobility service authorised by the
        licence;

    (d) requiring a serial number to be engraved on or affixed to
         every vehicle used or to be used by the licensee to provide
         the shared mobility service authorised by the licence;

    (e) requiring the licensee to provide parking spaces for the
        type of vehicles used or to be used by the licensee in
        providing the shared mobility service authorised by the
        licence;

    (f) requiring the licensee to take, so far as is reasonably
        practicable, any measures that are necessary to ensure that,
        for every vehicle hired from the licensee in the course of
        providing the shared mobility service, the rider of the
        vehicle has attended and successfully completed a
        prescribed test of competence to ride the vehicle which
        is the subject of the hiring;

    (g) requiring the licensee —

    (i) to appoint, and ensure that at all times there is
        appointed, one or more persons in Singapore
        authorised by the licensee to accept on the
        licensee’s behalf service of notices and other
        documents under this Act; and

    (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
         the person or persons appointed as required by
         sub‑paragraph (i);

    (h) requiring the licensee —

    (i) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is
        nominated, one or more representatives each of
        whom satisfies the prescribed qualifications; and

    (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
         the representative or representatives so nominated;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 22

          (i) requiring the furnishing of a performance bond, guarantee
              or any other form of security of such amount and on such
              terms and conditions as the LTA may determine —

          (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
              condition attached to the licence or any standard of
              performance applicable to the licensee;

          (ii) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
               regulatory action started or likely to start against the
               licensee, or both; or

          (iii) to meet any cost or expenses which the LTA may
                reasonably incur in moving and disposing of vehicles
                that were used by a former licensee in providing
                shared mobility services and are abandoned in public
                places;

          (j) requiring the licensee to undergo (at its own cost) such
              audit as the LTA may require to ascertain the licensee’s
              compliance with —

          (i) the provisions of this Act or a standard of
              performance applicable to the licensee;

          (ii) the conditions of the licence granted to that licensee;
               or

          (iii) a direction given under this Act or a safety directive;
                and

          (k) prohibiting the collection of deposits from hirers of
              vehicles used in the provision of the shared mobility
              service by the licensee.

 (3) An audit referred to in subsection (2)(j) must be carried out by
authorised officers or other officers of the LTA or such qualified
individuals approved by the LTA for that purpose.

Modifying conditions of licence

 14.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the LTA to modify
the conditions of a licence without compensating the licensee
concerned.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             Shared Mobility Enterprises

             (Control and Licensing)

23           Act 2020                                        2020 Ed.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a licence, the LTA must give
notice to the licensee holding that licence —

    (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
         the manner as specified in the notice; and

    (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
         date of service of notice on the licensee) within which the
         licensee may make written representations to the LTA with
         respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation referred to in
subsection (2), the LTA must consider that representation and may —

    (a) reject the representation;

    (b) amend the proposed modification of any condition of a
         licence in such manner as the LTA thinks fit having regard
         to the representation; or

    (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

(4) Where —

    (a) the LTA rejects any written representation under
         subsection (3)(a);

    (b) the LTA amends any proposed modification to any
         condition of a licence under subsection (3)(b); or

    (c) no written representation is received by the LTA within the
        time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any written
        representation made under that subsection is
        subsequently withdrawn,

the LTA must issue a written direction to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the LTA, to give
effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the LTA, as the case may be.

Modifying licence conditions on licensee’s application

 15.—(1) A licensee may apply to the Authority to modify any
condition of the licensee’s licence mentioned in section 13(2)(b), and
no other condition.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 24

(2) An application under subsection (1) must —

(a) be in the form and manner the LTA determines;

(b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

          (c) be accompanied by such prescribed information and any
              other additional information that the LTA requires to
              decide on the application.

 (3) However, an application under subsection (1) must be made no
later than 9 months (or such longer or shorter period as may be
prescribed in substitution) before the date of expiry of the licence
concerned.

 (4) The LTA may refuse to consider an application under
subsection (1) to modify the condition of the licensee’s licence
where the application is incomplete or not made in accordance with
this section.

 (5) After considering any application under subsection (1) and
whether a safety directive is in force, the LTA may do either of the
following:

(a) on payment of a fee (if prescribed) to modify a licence
     condition in subsection (1), modify other relevant
     conditions of the licence and grant the licensee the
     modification applied for;

(b) refuse to modify the licence condition in the application.

 (6) Sections 11(2), (3), (4) and (5) and 13(2)(i) apply, with the
necessary modifications, to every application under subsection (1) as
if the application were an application for or to renew a licence.

 (7) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
under subsection (1) to modify any condition of the licensee’s
licence —

(a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
     document or information in connection with the
     application which is false in a material particular; and

(b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
     whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

25  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

 (8) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (7) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Restriction on transfer and surrender of licence

 16.—(1) A licence, and any rights, benefits or privileges under the
licence, are not transferable or assignable to any other person
unless —

       (a) the licence contains a condition authorising the transfer or
            assignment; and

       (b) the LTA consents in writing to the transfer or assignment.

 (2) Any consent under subsection (1) may be given subject to
compliance with any conditions that the LTA thinks fit to impose,
which may include conditions modifying, or requiring or otherwise
providing for the making of modifications to, the conditions of the
licence; but section 14(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to or in relation
to these modifications to the conditions of the licence.

 (3) A transfer or an assignment, or purported transfer or
assignment, of a licence, or of any rights, benefits or privileges
under the licence, is void and of no effect —

       (a) if the licence is not capable of transfer or assignment;

       (b) if the transfer or assignment, or purported transfer or
            assignment, is in breach of a condition of the licence; or

       (c) if there has, before the transfer or assignment or purported
            transfer or assignment, been a contravention of a condition
            subject to compliance with which the consent required by
            subsection (1) is given.

 (4) Every licence is not capable of being surrendered without the
written consent of the LTA, and any surrender or purported surrender
of a licence is void if it is without such consent.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
               Shared Mobility Enterprises

               (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.       Act 2020                                            26

               Division 2 — Class licences

Class licence

 17.—(1) The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, by order
in the Gazette determine a class licence that authorises a person to
which the order applies to provide a shared mobility service or a class
or description of shared mobility service without a licence granted
under Part 3 —

(a) for a specified period or indefinitely, or to an extent
     specified in that order; and

(b) subject to any conditions that may be specified in that
     order.

 (2) To avoid doubt, there may be more than one class licence
determined, and according (but not limited) to any of the following:

(a) the construction or type of vehicle used in providing a
     shared mobility service;

(b) the type of shared mobility service;

          (c) the number of vehicles used or intended to be used in
              providing a shared mobility service;

(d) the place where a shared mobility service is being or is to
     be provided.

 (3) An order under subsection (1) continues in force, unless it is
revoked, for such period as may be specified in the order.

 (4) The provision of a shared mobility service by a class licensee to
which an order under subsection (1) applies is deemed authorised by
this Act if it is done in accordance with the conditions of the order.

Variation and revocation of class licence

 18.—(1) Subject to this section, the LTA may, with the approval of
the Minister and by order in the Gazette, vary a class licence
determined under an order made under section 17 by —

       (a) varying or revoking any condition specified in the order; or

       (b) specifying additional conditions of the order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

27  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) Before varying a class licence determined under an order made
under section 17(1) or revoking such an order, the LTA must, unless it
considers it impractical or undesirable in the circumstances of the
case, cause to be published, in accordance with subsection (3), a
written notice that —

    (a) states that the LTA proposes to vary the class licence, or to
         end the class licence;

    (b) describes the proposed variation or ending; and

    (c) invites interested persons to make representations about
        the proposed variation or ending by a specified date that is
        at least 14 days after the date of publication of the notice.

 (3) A notice under subsection (2) must be published on the LTA’s
website or in one or more other forms that are readily accessible by
the public.

 (4) The LTA must, before varying a class licence determined under
an order under subsection (1) or revoking such an order, give due
consideration to any representations made to the LTA pursuant to the
notice given in accordance with subsection (2).

Conditions applicable to class licensee

 19.—(1) Without limiting section 17(1) or 18, the conditions
subject to which a class licensee may provide a shared mobility
service under a class licence may include any of the following
requirements:

       (a) to do or not to do any things that are specified or are of a
            description specified, except insofar as the LTA consents to
            the class licensee doing or not doing them;

       (b) to refer for determination by the LTA such questions
            arising under the class licence or of a description specified;

       (c) to take, so far as is reasonably practicable, any measures
            that are necessary to ensure that, for every vehicle hired
            from the class licensee in the course of providing a shared
            mobility service, the rider of the vehicle has attended and
            successfully completed a prescribed test of competence to
            ride the vehicle which is the subject of the hiring;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                     28

(d) to provide information and reports to the LTA about the
     class licensee and the shared mobility service it provides;

          (e) to provide the LTA —

          (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
              documents under this Act for the class licensee may
              be served; or

          (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
               Singapore authorised by the class licensee to accept
               on the class licensee’s behalf service of notices and
               other documents under this Act;

          (f) to nominate, and ensure that at all times there is nominated,
              one or more representatives each of whom satisfies the
              prescribed qualifications, and to provide the LTA the name,
              address and contact details of the representative or
              representatives so nominated.

 (2) In particular, a class licence may provide that the class licence
applies to a person subject to a condition precedent that requires that
person —

(a) to notify the LTA about the person’s identity and other
     particulars about the shared mobility services provided by
     the person; and

(b) to pay a charge to the LTA for receiving the notification.

                                    PART 4
             BUSINESS OPERATION REQUIREMENTS
       Division 1 — Management controls and record-keeping
Change in management of licensee
 20.—(1) It is a condition of every licence that the licensee to whom
the licence is granted must notify the LTA of, where the licensee is a
corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or an
unincorporated association —
       (a) the resignation or removal of any officer of the
            corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership or

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

29  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    unincorporated association (as the case may be) within the
    prescribed period after the date of resignation or removal,
    as the case may be; or

    (b) the death of any of its officers within the prescribed period
         after the date the licensee becomes aware of that death.

 (2) To avoid doubt, this section applies even though a licence is
suspended pursuant to section 29.

Accounts and statements

 21.—(1) A licensee must —

       (a) in respect of the whole or part (as the case may be) of every
            financial year, prepare such accounts and statements as are
            specified in, or ascertained in accordance with, the
            Regulations;

       (b) retain the accounts and statements prepared in accordance
            with paragraph (a) for 5 years after the end of the period to
            which they relate;

       (c) within the prescribed period after the close of a financial
            year of the licensee, give the LTA those accounts and
            statements duly audited by an auditor approved by the
            LTA; and

       (d) keep and retain records, where the records are relevant to
            the preparation of the accounts and statements of the
            licensee mentioned in paragraph (a), for such period and in
            such manner as prescribed in the Regulations.

 (2) A licensee must not prepare any accounts or statements required
by subsection (1) in such a way that they do not correctly record and
explain the matters or things to which they relate.

 (3) A licensee —

       (a) who is subject to any requirement under subsection (1) or
            (2); and

       (b) who intentionally or negligently contravenes the
            requirement,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 30

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) Regulations may be made to vary the period mentioned in
subsection (1)(b).

Record-keeping and giving information

 22.—(1) A licensee must —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
            records, where the records are relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the shared mobility
            service as specified in the licence granted to the licensee;
            and

       (b) give to the LTA, within the period and in the manner
            specified in the licence, information that is relevant to
            monitoring or evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the
            shared mobility service as specified in the licence granted
            to the licensee.

 (2) A class licensee providing a shared mobility service to which an
order under section 17 (including as varied under section 18) applies
must —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
            records where the records are relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the shared mobility
            service as specified in the order; and

       (b) give to the LTA, within the period and in the manner
            prescribed, information that is relevant to monitoring or
            evaluating, under this Act, an aspect of the shared mobility
            service as specified in the order.

 (3) A person who is subject to a requirement under subsection (1) or
(2) to keep and retain or give any record or information commits an
offence if the person —

       (a) intentionally or negligently contravenes the requirement
            under subsection (1) or (2) to keep, retain or give;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

31  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any record or
         information which the person is required under
         subsection (1) or (2) to keep, retain or give; or

    (c) who, in keeping, retaining or giving the record or
        information required under subsection (1) or (2), makes
        any statement which the person knows to be false in a
        material particular, or recklessly makes such a statement.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Monitoring improper parking by hirers

 23.—(1) A licensee providing a shared mobility service using a
type of vehicles may enter into an information sharing arrangement
with another licensee providing a shared mobility service using the
same or different type of vehicles to share or exchange information
held by the licensees for the purpose of subsection (4).

 (2) Under an information sharing arrangement mentioned in
subsection (1), each party to the arrangement, despite any other
Act, is authorised —

       (a) to request and receive information held by the other party
            to the arrangement; and

       (b) to disclose information to the other party,

but only to the extent that the information is reasonably necessary to
assist in the exercise of any power under subsection (4).

 (3) However, the information to which an information sharing
arrangement mentioned in subsection (1) may relate is limited to the
following:

       (a) information concerning possible improper parking in
            public places by hirers of vehicles which were hired
            from licensees who are party to the arrangement;

       (b) information about hirers in respect of whom a power under
            subsection (4) has been exercised by any licensee which is
            party to the arrangement;

       (c) other information prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.              Act 2020                                     32

(4) Every licensee —

(a) is entitled to refuse to hire or further hire for a period not
     exceeding a prescribed period to any individual any
     undocked vehicle used by the licensee to provide a
     shared mobility service where the licensee has
     reasonable grounds to believe that the individual
     persistently improperly parks vehicles (whether or not
     hired from the same licensee) in public places; and

(b) must refuse to hire or further hire to a particular individual
     for a period not exceeding a prescribed period any
     undocked vehicle used by the licensee to provide a
     shared mobility service, where directed by the LTA
     under section 25.

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (4), an individual seeking at any
time in a year to hire to ride an undocked vehicle (called vehicle A)
from a licensee may be treated by the licensee as an individual who
persistently improperly parks vehicles in public places if, pursuant to
an information sharing arrangement mentioned in subsection (1), the
licensee reasonably believes the individual to have, upon ending any
hiring of a vehicle from the licensee or another licensee, improperly
parked in any public place a vehicle on at least 3 earlier occasions
within the year —

(a) where any vehicle involved in the earlier occasions is of
     the same type as vehicle A or is of a prescribed class within
     which vehicle A falls; and

(b) after disregarding all other occasions of improper parking
     in public places before that year.

 (6) Despite subsection (5), if an individual is refused by a licensee
under subsection (4) the hire or further hire of a vehicle, all occasions
which counted towards that refusal must be disregarded for the
purposes of subsequent determinations by any licensee as to whether
that individual is or is not an individual who persistently improperly
parks vehicles in public places.

 (7) Regulations may be made to vary, for any year, the number of
occasions mentioned in subsection (5).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

33                     Act 2020                              2020 Ed.

    Division 2 — Standards of performance and directions

Standards of performance for licensees and class licensees

24.—(1) The LTA may —

    (a) issue one or more standards of performance applicable to
         licensees or class licensees, or specified types of licensees
         or class licensees;

    (b) approve as a standard of performance applicable to
         licensees or class licensees, or specified types of
         licensees or class licensees, any document prepared by a
         person other than the LTA if the LTA considers the
         document as suitable for this purpose; or

    (c) amend or revoke any standard of performance issued under
        paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the matters in subsection (2) or (3), as the
case may be.

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) include any of the
following:

    (a) the design, construction, use and deployment of the
         vehicles owned or made available by a licensee or class
         licensee in providing a shared mobility service;

    (b) measures directed towards ensuring the maintenance of
         and keeping safe and roadworthy vehicles made available
         by a licensee or class licensee in providing the shared
         mobility service;

    (c) the extent, hours and general level of service by the
        licensee or class licensee to hirers, including hirer
        handling‑related facilities, systems and services;

    (d) measures to deal with customer complaints and lost
         property found in vehicles made available by the
         licensee or class licensee in providing the shared
         mobility service, and the processes to handle and dispose
         of these complaints and property;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 34

          (e) measures to deal with safety and safety incidents and
              accidents involving vehicles made available by the
              licensee or class licensee in providing the shared
              mobility service, and reporting to the LTA those safety
              incidents and accidents;

          (f) measures to discourage indiscriminate parking by hirers of
              vehicles in public places at the end of hiring, which may
              include prices and the use of geo‑fencing technology;

(g) measures necessary for —

          (i) the installation, maintenance and keeping in a state
              of good and serviceable repair vehicle location
              devices affixed to each vehicle used or to be used
              to provide shared mobility services; and

          (ii) locating, distributing and collecting vehicles parked
               or apparently abandoned in public places;

(h) performance standards relating to the provision of shared
     mobility services and the quality of other aspects of the
     provision of the shared mobility service, such as minimum
     service levels, and performance outcomes for regularity
     and accessibility of the shared mobility service and of
     customer information and service;

          (i) the provision of estimates, publication and display of
              deposits and hiring charges (including payment
              surcharges) for or in connection with the provision of the
              shared mobility service;

          (j) measures necessary for licensees to deal with any plague,
              epidemic, fire, flood, earthquake or disaster (natural or
              otherwise) or any public emergency;

          (k) other performance standards relating to shared mobility
              services.

 (3) A standard of performance may, in particular, specify the duties
and obligations of any licensee or class licensee in relation to its
business operation insofar as it relates to the provision of shared
mobility services in Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

35  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) If any provision in any standard of performance is inconsistent
with any provision of this Act or the Regulations, that provision, to
the extent of the inconsistency —

    (a) is to have effect subject to this Act and the Regulations; or

    (b) having regard to this Act and the Regulations, is not to
         have effect.

 (5) Where a standard of performance is issued, approved, amended
or revoked by the LTA under subsection (1), the LTA must —

    (a) give notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
         revocation (as the case may be) of the standard of
         performance to every licensee or class licensee to whom
         the standard of performance applies;

    (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
         issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
         be; and

    (c) ensure that, so long as the standard of performance remains
        in force, copies of that standard of performance, and of all
        amendments to that standard of performance, are available
        for inspection, free of charge, by the licensees or class
        licensees to whom the standard of performance applies.

 (6) No standard of performance, no amendment to an approved
standard of performance, and no revocation of any approved standard
of performance, has any force or effect as an approved standard of
performance until the notice relating thereto is given in accordance
with subsection (5).

 (7) A standard of performance issued or approved under this
section does not have legislative effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), every licensee and class licensee must
comply with the standards of performance applicable to the licensee
or class licensee.

 (9) The LTA may, for such time as the LTA may specify, waive the
application of any standard of performance or part of a standard of
performance, issued or approved under this section to any particular
licensee or class licensee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 36

Directions affecting licensees and class licensees

 25.—(1) The LTA may give a direction to a licensee or class
licensee for or in respect of —

(a) locating, distributing or collecting from public places of
     vehicles used by the licensee or class licensee to provide
     shared mobility services authorised by the licensee’s
     licence or class licence, as the case may be;

(b) the safety or roadworthiness of the vehicles used in
     connection with the provision of shared mobility services
     authorised by the licensee’s licence or class licence, as the
     case may be; or

          (c) any matter affecting the interests of the public in
              connection with the shared mobility service provided by
              the licensee or class licensee.

(2) A direction given under subsection (1) —

(a) may require the licensee or class licensee concerned
     (according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to
     refrain from doing, for a specified period, things specified
     in the direction or things that are of a description specified
     in the direction, including (for a licensee) refusing to hire
     or further hire vehicles to any particular hirer;

(b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
     time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

          (c) may be revoked at any time by the LTA.

 (3) However, a direction requiring a licensee or class licensee to
refuse to hire or further hire vehicles to a particular hirer —

(a) must not have an expiry date that is longer than the
     prescribed period mentioned in section 23(4)(b); and

(b) may only be given with respect to an individual who is
     convicted of, or has accepted a composition sum offered
     with respect to, any of the following offences committed or
     allegedly committed on or after 22 July 2020:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

37  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (i) an offence under section 21 or 22 of the Active
        Mobility Act 2017;

    (ii) an offence under section 5A of the Road Traffic
         Act 1961;

    (iii) an offence under the Parking Places Act 1974 or any
          rules made under that Act involving improper
          parking of vehicles hired from any licensee or
          class licensee.

 (4) A direction under this section continues in force until the earlier
of the following occurs:

    (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the direction is reached;

    (b) the LTA revokes the direction.

 (5) Before exercising any powers under subsection (1), the LTA
must, unless the LTA in respect of any particular direction considers
that it is not practicable or desirable, give written notice to the
licensee or class licensee concerned —

    (a) stating that the LTA intends to give a direction to the
         licensee or class licensee under this section and the nature
         of the direction; and

    (b) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days after the
         date of service of the notice on the licensee or class
         licensee) within which written representations may be
         made to the LTA with respect to the proposed direction.

(6) However, subsection (5) does not apply where —

    (a) a safety directive is in force and the proposed direction is
         occasioned by the directive; or

    (b) the LTA, in respect of any particular direction, considers
         that it is not practicable or desirable to comply with
         subsection (5).

 (7) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
made pursuant to subsection (5)(b), decide to give or not to give the
direction as the LTA considers appropriate.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 38

 (8) The LTA must serve on the licensee or class licensee concerned
a notice of its decision under subsection (7).

 (9) Every licensee or class licensee must comply with every
direction given under this section to the licensee or class licensee as
soon as it takes effect.

 (10) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by the licensee or class
licensee, or an officer, employee or agent of the licensee or class
licensee, for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act is done or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith and for the
purpose of complying with or giving effect to a direction given under
this section.

                       Division 3 — Safety directives

Safety directives

 26.—(1) The Minister may, and in accordance with subsections (2),
(3), (4) and (5), give such safety directives of general application as
may be necessary to alleviate or minimise any risk —

       (a) of death of, or a serious injury to, any individual from the
            provision of any shared mobility service; or

       (b) of serious damage to any property from the provision of
            any shared mobility service.

 (2) The Minister may give a safety directive made under this
section to all or any of the following, individually or as a class:

       (a) a licensee;

       (b) a class licensee;

       (c) a provider of a shared mobility service which is exempt
            under section 47.

 (3) In making a safety directive under this section, it is not
necessary for the Minister to give any person who may be affected by
the directive a chance to be heard before the directive is given.

 (4) A safety directive may be in force for a period not exceeding
6 months unless earlier revoked under subsection (5), and may be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

39  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

renewed by the Minister once only for a further period not exceeding
6 months.

 (5) The Minister may, at any time when any safety directive is in
force, revoke the safety directive by giving notice of that revocation
in the same manner as the directive was given.

 (6) So far as any safety directive is inconsistent with any
Regulations, the safety directive prevails.

How safety directive is given

 27.—(1) A safety directive is binding on the person or class of
persons to whom it is addressed and given.

 (2) A safety directive that is addressed to a person is sufficiently
given if it is served in the manner prescribed in section 46.

 (3) A safety directive that is addressed to a class of persons is
sufficiently given if it is —

       (a) served on each of the persons in the class in the manner
            prescribed in section 46; or

       (b) published both —

               (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
                   any other news media that, in the opinion of the LTA,
                   will be most likely to bring the directive to the
                   attention of the persons who belong to the class; and

              (ii) on the LTA’s official website.

 (4) Once such a safety directive is made and given under this
section, the Minister must also publish the making of the directive in a
manner that the Minister thinks will secure adequate publicity for the
fact of making and giving of the safety directive.

 (5) However, failure to publish a safety directive under
subsection (4) does not invalidate the directive.

 (6) A safety directive that is given —

       (a) in accordance with subsection (2) takes effect when it is
            served;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 40

(b) in accordance with subsection (3)(a) takes effect when it is
     served on all the persons in the class in question; and

          (c) in accordance with subsection (3)(b) takes effect at the
              beginning of the day after the date on which
              subsection (3)(b) has been complied with.

General duty to comply with safety directives

 28.—(1) A safety directive may require the person it binds
(according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain
from doing, for a specified period, things specified in the directive or
things that are of a description specified in the directive, including
stop providing a shared mobility service within any part of Singapore.

 (2) A person to whom a safety directive is given and who is
required by the directive to do, or to refrain from doing, for a
specified period, things specified in the directive or things that are of
a description specified in the directive, commits an offence if the
person intentionally or negligently fails to comply with the directive.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 5

                              ENFORCEMENT

                      Division 1 — Regulatory action

Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence or class licence

 29.—(1) Subject to section 31, if the LTA is satisfied that —

       (a) a licensee or class licensee is contravening or not
            complying with, or has contravened or failed to comply
            with —

               (i) any of the conditions of its licence or, in the case of a
                   class licensee, any condition of its class licence;

              (ii) any provision of this Act or the Regulations
                   applicable to the licensee or class licensee,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

41  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    contravention of or non‑compliance with which is
    not an offence under this Act;

    (iii) any provision of a standard of performance
          applicable to the licensee or class licensee; or

    (iv) any direction or order given to the licensee or class
         licensee under section 25 or subsection (2)(c), (e)
         or (g);

    (b) the licensee or class licensee has gone or is likely to go into
         compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
         purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

    (c) the licensee or class licensee has made any assignment to,
        or composition with, its creditors or if a corporation, is
        unable to pay its debts;

    (d) the licensee or class licensee is not providing an adequate
         and satisfactory shared mobility service;

    (e) the licensee or class licensee, or an officer of the licensee or
        class licensee, is convicted of any offence under —

    (i) this Act or the Regulations; or

    (ii) section 23B, 28 or 58A of the Active Mobility
         Act 2017,

    (e) committed during the term of the licence or class licence,
        as the case may be;

    (f) the licence had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
        misrepresentation;

    (g) any part of the periodic licence fee required by section 12 is
         in arrears; or

    (h) the public interest of Singapore requires,

the LTA may revoke (without any compensation) the licensee’s
licence, with or without forfeiting the whole or part of any
performance bond, guarantee or other form of security furnished
by the licensee under this Act or disapply the class licence with
respect to that class licensee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 42

 (2) However, the LTA may, in lieu of revoking a licensee’s licence
or disapplying a class licence with respect to a class licensee under
subsection (1), do (without compensation) any one or more of the
following:

(a) censure the licensee or class licensee in writing;

(b) modify any condition of the licence;

          (c) direct the licensee or class licensee —

          (i) to do, or to refrain from doing, such things as are
              specified in a direction to rectify any contravention
              or non‑compliance mentioned in subsection (1)(a);
              or

          (ii) to remove, within a period specified in the direction,
               from all public places vehicles used by the licensee
               or former licensee or class licensee or former class
               licensee (as the case may be) in providing shared
               mobility services when the licence is not in force or
               the class licence is disapplied;

(d) suspend the licence or the application of the class licence
     (as the case may be) for not more than 6 months;

          (e) direct the licensee or class licensee to pay, within a period
              specified in a direction, a financial penalty of any amount
              that the LTA thinks fit, but not exceeding the maximum
              specified in subsection (6);

          (f) direct the furnishing by the licensee of any performance
              bond, guarantee or other form of security, or an additional
              performance bond, guarantee or other form of security, for
              all or any of the following:

          (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
              condition attached to the licence;

          (ii) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
               standard of performance applicable to the licensee;

          (iii) for the purpose of meeting any financial penalty
                arising out of any regulatory action started or likely
                to start against the licensee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                  Shared Mobility Enterprises

                  (Control and Licensing)

43                Act 2020                                   2020 Ed.

    (iv) to meet any cost or expense which the LTA may
         reasonably incur in moving and disposing of vehicles
         that were used by a former licensee in providing
         shared mobility services and are abandoned in public
         places;

    (g) order the reduction of the maximum or an increase of the
         minimum number, or both, of vehicles which the licensee,
         during the validity period of the licence or any part of that
         period —

    (i) may offer or expose undocked for hiring in or at a
        public place; or

    (ii) may allow the hiring of which to end in or at a public
         place undocked,

    (g) or both.

 (3) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a licensee for
contravening or not complying with —

    (a) any condition attached to the licence; or

    (b) any standard of performance applicable to the licensee,

any performance bond, guarantee or other form of security furnished
by the licensee to secure compliance by the licensee with any
condition attached to the licence or any standard of performance
applicable to the licensee must not be forfeited by the LTA for that
contravention or non‑compliance except to the extent to pay the
financial penalty.

 (4) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
LTA may accept the licensee’s or person’s conviction as final.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a corporation is unable to
pay its debts if it is a corporation which is deemed to be so unable
under section 254(2) or 351(2) (as the case may be) of the Companies
Act 1967 as in force before 30 July 2020 or section 125(2) of the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 44

 (6) The higher of the following is the maximum financial penalty
that a licensee or class licensee may be directed under
subsection (2)(e) to pay:

(a) $100,000 for each instance of the contravention or
     non‑compliance which is the subject of the regulatory
     action;

(b) 10% of the annual turnover of the licensee’s or class
     licensee’s business derived from or attributable to
     providing a shared mobility service, as ascertained from
     the licensee’s or class licensee’s latest audited accounts.

Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.

 30.—(1) Subject to section 31, if regulatory action under section 29
has started against a licensee or class licensee, and the LTA does not
take any regulatory action before the date of expiry of the licensee’s
licence or the date the class licence stops applying for reasons other
than the LTA discontinuing the regulatory action or the ending of the
class licence, then despite the expiry or stoppage —

       (a) the regulatory action may continue and the LTA may
            exercise any powers under subsection (2) in relation to the
            former licensee or former class licensee if satisfied of any
            ground mentioned in section 29(1); and

       (b) any performance bond, guarantee or any other form of
            security furnished under section 13(2)(i) by the former
            licensee does not need to be discharged or refunded until
            the conclusion of that regulatory action.

 (2) The LTA may, if satisfied of any ground mentioned in
section 29(1), do (without compensation) any one or more of the
following:

       (a) censure the former licensee or former class licensee in
            writing;

       (b) direct the former licensee or former class licensee —

               (i) to do, or to refrain from doing, such things as are
                   specified in a direction to rectify any contravention
                   or non‑compliance mentioned in section 29(1)(a) by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

45  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    the former licensee or former class licensee when the
    licence or class licence was in force; or

    (ii) to remove, within a period specified in the direction,
         from all public places vehicles used by the former
         licensee or former class licensee in providing shared
         mobility services;

    (c) direct the former licensee or former class licensee to pay,
        within a period specified in a direction, a financial penalty
        of any amount that the LTA thinks fit, but not exceeding the
        maximum specified in subsection (4).

 (3) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a former licensee for
contravening or not complying with —

    (a) any condition attached to the licence that expired; or

    (b) any standard of performance that was applicable to the
         former licensee,

any performance bond, guarantee or other form of security furnished
by the former licensee to secure compliance by the former licensee
with any condition attached to that licence or any standard of
performance applicable to the former licensee may be forfeited by the
LTA for that contravention or non‑compliance to the extent to pay the
financial penalty.

 (4) The higher of the following is the maximum financial penalty
that a former licensee or former class licensee may be directed under
subsection (2)(c) to pay:

    (a) $100,000 for each instance of the contravention or
         non‑compliance which is the subject of the regulatory
         action;

    (b) 10% of the annual turnover of the former licensee’s or
         former class licensee’s business derived from or
         attributable to providing a shared mobility service, as
         ascertained from the latest audited accounts of the former
         licensee or former class licensee.

 (5) Section 29(4) and (5) applies to regulatory action under this
section as it applies to any regulatory action under that section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 46

Proceedings for regulatory action

 31.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 29(1) or (2) or
30(2), the LTA must give written notice to the licensee or class
licensee or former licensee or former class licensee concerned —

(a) stating that the LTA intends to take regulatory action
     against the licensee or class licensee or former licensee or
     former class licensee;

(b) specifying the type of action in section 29(1) or (2) or 30(2)
     that the LTA proposes to take, and each instance of
     contravention or non‑compliance that is the subject of the
     action; and

          (c) specifying the time (being not less than 14 days from the
              date of service of notice on the licensee or class licensee, or
              former licensee or former class licensee, as the case may
              be) within which written representations may be made to
              the LTA with respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (1)(c), decide to take any regulatory action in
section 29(1) or (2) or 30(2) that the LTA considers appropriate.

 (3) Where the LTA has made any decision under subsection (2)
against any licensee or class licensee, the LTA must serve on the
licensee or class licensee, or former licensee or former class licensee,
concerned a notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to section 39, a decision to revoke a licence or disapply
a class licence under section 29(1), or to impose a regulatory action in
section 29(2) or 30(2), which is specified in the notice given under
subsection (3), takes effect from the date on which that notice is
given, or on such other date as may be specified in the notice.

 (5) Any suspension or revocation of any licence or disapplication of
a class licence under section 29 with respect to a licensee or class
licensee does not affect —

(a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
     the licensee or class licensee or the former licensee or
     former class licensee, as the case may be; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

47  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) the enforcement by the licensee or class licensee or the
         former licensee or former class licensee (as the case may
         be) of any right or claim against any person.

 (6) All financial penalties imposed under section 29(2) or 30(2)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                    Division 2 — Enforcement powers

Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable by
authorised officers

 32.—(1) An authorised officer may exercise the powers set out in
this Division for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to determine compliance with this Act and the Regulations,
            including whether an offence under this Act or the
            Regulations has been committed;

       (b) to determine compliance with any condition of a licence or
            class licence;

       (c) to determine whether information provided to the LTA
            under a provision of this Act or its subsidiary legislation is
            correct;

       (d) to investigate whether there are grounds for taking any
            regulatory action against a licensee or class licensee.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Division limits section 39 of the
Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 with respect to an
offence under this Act or the Regulations.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 33.—(1) An authorised officer may, in accordance with
subsection (2), enter any premises occupied by a relevant person
which the authorised officer reasonably believes to be used for or in
connection with the provision of any shared mobility service, and do
all or any of the following at the premises:

       (a) to examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in
            or on the premises;

       (b) to search the premises and any thing in or on the premises;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                    48

          (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the
              premises and any thing in or on the premises;

(d) to inspect any document in the premises and take extracts
     from, or make copies of, any such document;

          (e) to take into or onto the premises such equipment and
              materials as the authorised officer requires for the purpose
              of exercising powers in relation to the premises;

          (f) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

(g) to secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
     thing is found in or on the premises, where the authorised
     officer believes on reasonable grounds that —

          (i) the thing is evidential material relevant to an offence
              under this Act or the Regulations, or is used or
              intended to be used for the purpose of contravening
              or not complying with any condition of a licence or
              class licence, or any standard of performance,
              direction or safety directive; and

          (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
               it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
               warrant to seize the thing is obtained;

(h) to seize any thing found in or on the premises which the
     authorised officer reasonably suspects is as described in
     paragraph (g)(i);

          (i) to require any individual found in or on the premises to
              answer any question (to the best of that individual’s
              knowledge, information and belief) and to provide any
              document or information that the officer reasonably
              requires for any of the purposes of section 32.

 (2) However, an authorised officer is not authorised by
subsection (1) —

(a) to enter and search any premises which are not a place on
     or at which a licensee or class licensee provides a shared
     mobility service or carries out any activity in connection
     with the provision of the shared mobility service, except —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

49  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (i) with the consent of the occupier; or

    (ii) under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District
         Court; or

    (b) to seize any thing in or on any premises unless the seizure
         is made under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District
         Court.

 (3) A warrant mentioned in subsection (2) may be issued if a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court is satisfied that it is necessary for
the authorised officer to enter any premises, search any premises or
seize any thing (as the case may be) for any of the purposes of
section 32.

 (4) The power under subsection (1)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

    (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
         premises and can be used with the equipment or in
         association with the equipment;

    (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
         the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
         documents so produced from the premises; and

    (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
        transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
        device that —

    (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
        power; or

    (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
         purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
         the premises,

    (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
        those premises.

 (5) The power under subsection (1)(g) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any
premises includes the power —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 50

(a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
     other means; and

(b) to prohibit any person from dealing with such thing.

 (6) The power to require an individual to provide any document or
information under subsection (1)(i) includes the power —

(a) to require that individual to provide an explanation of the
     document or information;

(b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
     that individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
     knowledge and belief, where it is; and

          (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
              form, to require the information to be made available to the
              authorised officer or the LTA in legible form.

 (7) Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, when an authorised officer
seizes any thing under this section.

(8) In this section, “relevant person” means —

(a) a person to whom a licence is or was granted;

(b) a person who is or was a class licensee;

          (c) an individual who is or was an officer or a representative of
              a person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

(d) an individual who is or was an employee or outworker of
     the provider of a shared mobility service; or

          (e) a person whom an authorised officer suspects on
              reasonable grounds is or was the provider of any shared
              mobility service, or an agent of such a person.

Powers in relation to vehicles

 34.—(1) An authorised officer may do all or any of the following in
relation to a vehicle which the authorised officer reasonably believes
to be used for or in connection with the provision of any shared
mobility services:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

51  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) to stop and detain the vehicle for as long as is reasonably
         necessary for the exercise of any other power of the
         authorised officer under this section;

    (b) to inspect the vehicle and any equipment in or on the
         vehicle;

    (c) to make a still or moving image or recording of the vehicle
        and anything in or on the vehicle;

    (d) to inspect any document in the vehicle and take extracts
         from, or make copies of, any such document;

    (e) to operate a computer or other thing in or on the vehicle;

    (f) to require the rider of the vehicle, or a person in possession
        of the vehicle, to answer any question (to the best of that
        person’s or individual’s knowledge, information and
        belief) and to provide any document or information that
        the authorised officer reasonably requires for the purposes
        of section 32.

 (2) The power to require a person or an individual to provide any
document or information under subsection (1)(f) includes the
power —

    (a) to require that person or individual to provide an
         explanation of the document or information;

    (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         that person or individual to state, to the best of the person’s
         or individual’s knowledge and belief, where it is; and

    (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
        form, to require the information to be made available to the
        authorised officer or the LTA in legible form.

 (3) However, the power to require an individual to provide any
document or information under subsection (1)(f) must not be
exercised in relation to an individual who is an under‑aged rider,
but may be exercised in relation to any individual who is an
appropriate supervisor (within the meaning of the Active Mobility
Act 2017) escorting the riding of the vehicle by the firstmentioned
individual.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
           Shared Mobility Enterprises

           (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.   Act 2020                                                52

Power to obtain information

 35.—(1) The LTA or an authorised officer may by written notice
require any licensee or class licensee to provide, within a reasonable
period specified in the notice, and in such form and manner as may be
specified in the notice, all documents and information which —

(a) relate to any matter which the authorised officer considers
     necessary for any of the purposes of section 32; and

(b) are —

          (i) within the knowledge of that licensee or class
              licensee, as the case may be; or

          (ii) in the custody or under the control of the licensee or
               class licensee, as the case may be.

 (2) The power to require a licensee or class licensee to provide any
document or information under subsection (1) includes the power —

(a) to require that licensee or class licensee, or any individual
     who is or was an officer or agent or a representative of the
     licensee or class licensee (as the case may be), to provide
     an explanation of the document or information;

(b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
     that licensee, class licensee or individual to state, to the
     best of the knowledge and belief of that licensee, class
     licensee or individual (as the case may be), where it is; and

          (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
              form, to require the information to be made available to the
              LTA or an authorised officer in legible form.

 (3) The LTA is entitled without payment to keep any document or
information, or any copy or extract thereof, provided to the LTA or an
authorised officer under subsection (1).

Offences

 36.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by an authorised officer under
section 33(1) or 34(1), or by a notice under section 35(1), shall be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                Shared Mobility Enterprises

                (Control and Licensing)

53              Act 2020                                     2020 Ed.

guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.

(2) A person —

    (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
         document or information which the person has been
         required by an authorised officer under section 33(1)(i)
         or 34(1)(f), or by a notice under section 35(1) to provide; or

    (b) who, in providing any document or information required
         by an authorised officer under section 33(1)(i) or 34(1)(f),
         or by a notice under section 35(1), makes any statement
         which the person knows or ought reasonably to know that,
         or is reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a
         material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

    (a) the person does not possess the document or information
         required; and

    (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
         person to obtain the document or information required and
         has been unable to obtain it.

 (4) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

Composition of offences

 37.—(1) The LTA or an authorised officer may compound any
offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence
by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
             Shared Mobility Enterprises

             (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.     Act 2020                                              54

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 6

                                   APPEALS

Interpretation of this Part

 38. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the LTA:

              (a) a decision refusing the grant of a licence under
                   section 11;

              (b) a decision under section 13 imposing a condition in a
                   licensee’s licence;

              (c) a modification under section 14 of a condition in a
                   licensee’s licence;

              (d) a refusal to modify a condition of a licence under
                   section 15(5)(b);

              (e) a decision requiring the furnishing of a performance
                   bond, guarantee or any other form of security of such
                   amount, or an additional performance bond,
                   guarantee or any other form of security upon
                   granting under section 15(5)(a) a modification of a
                   condition of a licence;

              (f) a refusal of consent under section 16 to a transfer or
                   an assignment of a licence;

              (g) a direction under section 25, except a direction
                   described in section 25(3);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

55  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (h) a decision under section 29(1) to revoke a licence or
         disapply a class licence;

    (i) a decision under section 29(2) or 30(2) to impose a
        regulatory action against a licensee or class licensee;

    “appellant” means the following in relation to an appealable
       decision:

    (a) an applicant for the grant of a licence, where the
         appealable decision is within paragraph (a) of the
         definition of “appealable decision”;

    (b) a licensee, where the appealable decision is within
         paragraph (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) of the definition of
         “appealable decision”;

    (c) a licensee or class licensee or a former licensee or
        former class licensee, where the appealable decision
        is within paragraph (g), (h) or (i) of the definition of
        “appealable decision”;

    “Minister of State” means a Minister of State or Senior Minister
       of State assisting the Minister on matters within the purposes
       of this Act;

    “Parliamentary Secretary” includes a Senior Parliamentary
       Secretary appointed to assist the Minister in the discharge
       of the Minister’s duties and functions under this Act;

    “Second Minister” means the Second Minister to the Minister, if
       any.

Appeal to Minister

 39.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision
may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made —

       (a) for an appealable decision that is under section 14 about
            modification of a condition in a licence — within 28 days

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 56

          after the date the decision appealed against is given to the
          appellant; and

(b) for any other appealable decision — within 14 days after
     the date the decision appealed against is given to the
     appellant.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

(4) After considering an appeal, the Minister may —

(a) reject the appeal and confirm the appealable decision; or

(b) allow the appeal and reverse the appealable decision.

(5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (5).

 (7) An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

Designation of others to hear appeals

 40. The Minister may designate a Second Minister, Minister of
State or Parliamentary Secretary to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeals or a specific appeal under section 39;
and any reference in that section to the Minister includes a reference
to the Second Minister, Minister of State or Parliamentary Secretary
so designated for that appeal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

57                         Act 2020                          2020 Ed.

                           PART 7

    MISCELLANEOUS

Interface with other laws

41. To avoid doubt, this Act —

    (a) does not affect the operation of the Active Mobility
         Act 2017 or the Road Traffic Act 1961; and

    (b) does not limit the application of any other requirement or
         restriction to, or in relation to, the conduct of business in,
         or the parking of vehicles on, any public place by or under
         the Parking Places Act 1974 or any other written law.

Recovery of fees and penalties

 42.—(1) The LTA may impose interest at the prescribed rate on any
outstanding amount of —

       (a) any fee payable under section 11 for the grant of a licence;

       (b) any periodic fee payable under section 12;

       (c) any charge payable under an order made under
            section 17(1) (including as varied under section 18); or

       (d) any financial penalty directed under section 29(2) or 30(2)
            to be paid.

 (2) The following may be recovered by the LTA in any court of
competent jurisdiction as if they were simple contract debts:

       (a) any fee payable under section 11 for the grant of a licence;

       (b) any periodic fee payable under section 12;

       (c) any charge payable under an order made under
            section 17(1) (including as varied under section 18);

       (d) any financial penalty directed under section 29(2) or 30(2)
            to be paid;

       (e) any interest mentioned in subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
              Shared Mobility Enterprises

              (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.                  Act 2020                                 58

Offences by corporations

 43.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

(a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
     that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
     apparent authority; and

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
               of the corporation in relation to the commission of
               the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

                       (Control and Licensing)

59                     Act 2020                              2020 Ed.

offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
         members, any of those members as if the member
         were a director of the corporation;

    “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
       includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
       following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

    (a) action towards —

    (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
        the provision creating the offence; and

    (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
         professional assessments of its compliance
         with the provision;

    (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
         employees, agents and contractors are provided
         with information, training, instruction and
         supervision appropriate to them to enable them to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 60

          comply with the provision creating the offence so far
          as the provision is relevant to them;

          (c) action towards ensuring that —

          (i) the equipment and other resources; and

          (ii) the structures, work systems and other
               processes,

          (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
              the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

          (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
               culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
               lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
               the offence;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 44.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                  Shared Mobility Enterprises

                  (Control and Licensing)

61                Act 2020                                   2020 Ed.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
        member of its governing body;

    (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

    (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
          unincorporated association or partnership and in a
          position to influence the conduct of the
          unincorporated association or partnership (as the
          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

                       (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.               Act 2020                                    62

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 43;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modifications that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

                        (Control and Licensing)

63                      Act 2020                             2020 Ed.

Jurisdiction of courts

 45. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

Service of documents

 46.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 64

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
              partnership’s business address; or

(d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
     address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
     office or principal office in Singapore of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association;

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
              office or principal office in Singapore of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association; or

(d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
     corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a
body corporate or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
     partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
     association (called in this section an addressee) by the
     addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
     document is available and how the addressee may use the
     addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
     document’s contents;

(b) where by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the name of
     any individual or a body of persons to whom the document
     is to be served, or the business address, residential address
     or last email address of the individual or body, cannot be
     ascertained, by posting it on a website maintained by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

                       (Control and Licensing)

65                     Act 2020                              2020 Ed.

    LTA and prescribed by the Minister by notification in the
    Gazette for this purpose; or

    (c) by any other method authorised by the Regulations for the
        service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
        (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
        kind in that way.

(6) Service of a document takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of
         transmission;

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is sent;

    (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
        document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered);
        and

    (d) if the document is posted on a website mentioned in
         subsection (5)(b), at the beginning of the day after the date
         on which subsection (5)(b) has been complied with.

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) However, this section does not apply to documents to be served
in proceedings in court.

(9) In this section —

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 66

“chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
   be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
   means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
   person giving or serving the document as the means by which
   the addressee may access that document’s contents;

“chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
   is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
   means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
   the person giving or serving the document as the means by
   which the addressee may be notified that such a document
   has been served on the addressee;

“document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
   by this Act to be served;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

General exemption

 47. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to any conditions that the
Minister may impose.

Regulations

 48.—(1) The LTA, with the approval of the Minister, may make
regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out
or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the LTA may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) classes of licences;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

67  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
         an application for the grant of a licence may be made under
         this Act;

    (c) the carrying out of inquiries of applicants for a licence;

    (d) the duties of licensees;

    (e) the labelling or marking of vehicles used by a licensee or
        class licensee to provide shared mobility services;

    (f) the measures for locating, distributing or collecting from
        public places vehicles used by a licensee or class licensee
        in providing shared mobility services;

    (g) the accounting of deposits from hirers of vehicles used in
         the provision of a shared mobility service by a licensee or
         class licensee, including prohibiting withdrawals from an
         account for these deposits except as authorised by the
         Regulations;

    (h) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for the grant of
         a licence and otherwise in connection with the
         administration of this Act, and for the waiver, reduction
         or refund of fees charged;

    (i) the records that must be kept by licensees and the provision
        of returns and other information with respect to the
        provision of shared mobility services, including audio
        and visual records about the provision of the services.

(3) Regulations made under this section may —

    (a) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
         compounded;

    (b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
         regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
         exceeding $10,000; and

    (c) provide for any saving, transitional, and other
        consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
        that is necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.                    Act 2020   68

Presentation to Parliament

 49. All subsidiary legislation made under this Act must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

                                    PART 8

                           FINAL PROVISIONS

Saving and transitional provisions

 50.—(1) Subject to the adaptations provided in the Schedule, this
Act applies to and in relation to every person holding a licence that
is —

       (a) granted under Part 3 of the Parking Places Act 1974 (as in
            force before 22 July 2020) to provide a licensable service
            before 22 July 2020; and

       (b) in force immediately before that date.

 (2) Despite anything in this Act, any person who, on 22 July 2020,
is providing a shared mobility service within the meaning of
paragraph (a)(ii), (iii) or (iv) of the definition of “shared mobility
service” in section 3(1) may continue to provide that service —

       (a) for 2 months after that date or until an order under
            section 17 is earlier made applicable to the person; or

       (b) for 2 months after that date and, if within that period the
            person applies for a licence under Part 3, for a further
            period ending on the happening of the earlier of the
            following:

               (i) the date on which the LTA grants a licence to the
                   person;

              (ii) the date that the application is refused or withdrawn.

 (3) For a period of 2 years after 22 July 2020, the Minister may, by
order in the Gazette, amend the Schedule by prescribing any
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent
on the enactment of this section that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
    Shared Mobility Enterprises

    (Control and Licensing)

69  Act 2020                                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) Nothing in this section or the Schedule affects section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                           Section 53

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

 1. Every person holding a licence that —

        (a) is granted, before 22 July 2020, under Part 3 of the Parking Places
             Act 1974; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if
granted a licence authorising the person to provide a shared mobility service
granted under this Act until that licence expires or is earlier revoked under
section 29.

 2. Every direction that —

        (a) is issued under section 8O of the Parking Places Act 1974 before
             22 July 2020; and

        (b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
is a direction given by the LTA under section 25.

 3. Sections 29 and 30 of this Act do not apply to any proceedings —

        (a) under section 8P of the Parking Places Act 1974 as in force
             immediately before 22 July 2020; and

        (b) pending immediately before that date,

and those proceedings may be continued, and any penalty may be imposed under
section 8P of the Parking Places Act 1974 as if section 51(5) had not been enacted.

 4. Where an appeal has been made to the Minister —

        (a) under section 8R of the Parking Places Act 1974 before 22 July 2020;
             and

        (b) the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of immediately before
             that date,

the appeal may be dealt with under section 8R of the Parking Places Act 1974 as if
section 51(5) had not been enacted.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
          Shared Mobility Enterprises

          (Control and Licensing)

2020 Ed.  Act 2020                                                 70

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

5. Every standard of performance that —

(a) is approved or issued under section 8N of the Parking Places Act 1974
     before 22 July 2020; and

(b) is in force immediately before that date,

is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue as if it
is a standard of performance issued by the LTA under section 24(1).

                                                                                                         [S 58/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           SHARED MOBILITY ENTERPRISES
              (CONTROL AND LICENSING)
                            ACT 2020

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 8 of 2020 — Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and Licensing)
                          Act 2020

Bill           : 2/2020

First Reading  : 6 January 2020

Second and Third Readings : 4 February 2020

Commencement   : 22 July 2020 (except section 52)
                     (except section 52) (except section 52)
                     (except section 52)

2. G.N. No. S 58/2021 — Shared Mobility Enterprises (Control and
                                 Licensing) Act (Amendment of Schedule —
                                 Saving and Transitional Provisions) Order 2021

Commencement   : 1 February 2021

3. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 16(5) of the above Act)

Bill           : 45/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 March 2021 (section 16(5))
                     (section 16(5)) (section 16(5))
                     (section 16(5))

4. 2020 Revised Edition — Shared Mobility Enterprises
                                    (Control and Licensing)
                                    Act 2020

Operation      : 31 December 2021

5. Act 5 of 2026 — Land Transport and Related Matters Act 2026
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 1/2026

First Reading  : 12 January 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
Second and Third Readings    ii
Commencement               : 5 February 2026
                           : 4 May 2026

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
        COMPARATIVE TABLE

SHARED MOBILITY ENTERPRISES
   (CONTROL AND LICENSING)
                 ACT 2020

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                      Act 8 of 2020
[Omitted as having had effect]  50
[Omitted as having had effect]  51—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (5)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (6)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (7)
—                                  (8)
50                              52 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]
                                53

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 4/5/2026
