THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                    ELECTRICITY ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                                                                    2020 Ed.

Electricity Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                               ADMINISTRATION

3. Authority to administer Act
4. Power to obtain information
5. Restriction on disclosure of confidential information

                                        PART 3

      LICENSING OF ACTIVITIES RELATING TO ELECTRICITY

 6. Prohibition on unauthorised activities relating to electricity
 7. Application for licence, extension or exemption
 8. Exemption
 9. Electricity licences
10. Special condition in market support services licence
11. Restriction on transfer of electricity licence
12. Modification of conditions of electricity licence
13. Revocation or suspension of electricity licence
14. Enforcement
15. [Repealed]
16. Codes of practice
17. Direction by Authority
18. Compliance with codes of practice
19. Exclusion of liability of Authority
20. Duties of electricity licensees
20A. Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.
20B. Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.: supplementary

         provisions

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                            2

Section   Non-contestable consumers
   21.    Tariffs set by market support services licensee for
   22.    non‑contestable consumers
          Power to require security
   23.    Recovery of charges
   24.    Additional terms of supply of electricity
   25.    Determination of disputes by Authority
   26.    Fuel stocks
   27.

                                        PART 4

                    SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDER

28. Special administration order
29. Power to make special administration order, etc.
30. Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others

                                       PART 4A

      CONTROL OF ELECTRICITY LICENSEES AND ENTITIES
            WITH INTERESTS IN TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS

30A. Interpretation of this Part
30B. Control of acquisition of equity interest in designated electricity

         licensee, etc.
30C. Regulations for carrying out section 30B
30CA. Power to exempt
30D. Power to issue directions
30E. Effect of directions
30F. Offences, penalties and defences
30G. Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of

         designated electricity licensee

                                        PART 5

         MATTERS RELATING TO ELECTRICITY LICENSEES

31. Works by electricity licensee
32. Power to fell trees, etc.
33. Entry upon premises by electricity licensee for purposes of

         exploration
34. Entry during continuance of supply
35. Entry during discontinuance of supply

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
3        Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

Section  Entry for replacing, repairing or altering electric line or electrical
   36.   plant
         Relocation of installation
   37.   Electrical plant not fixtures and not subject to distress
   38.   Repurposing of installations
   38A.  Power to discontinue supply of electricity in emergency, etc.
   39.   Emergency plans
   40.   Contestable consumers
   41.

                                          PART 5A

                              ELECTRICITY RATIONING

   41A. Meaning of electricity shortage
   41B. Directions for electricity rationing
   41C. Enforcement of directions
   41D. Protection from liability
   41E. Effect of directions on contracts
   41F. Requests for information, etc.

                                          PART 5B

              MATTERS RELATING TO GENERATION ENTITIES

   41G. Interpretation of this Part
   41H. Application of this Part
   41I. Procurement of gas by prescribed generation entity

                                           PART 6

                      WHOLESALE ELECTRICITY MARKET

   42. Interpretation of this Part
   43. Functions and powers of Market Company
   44. Approval of Minister
   45. Liability of Market Company
   46. Market rules
   47. Penalties under market rules
   48. Limitation of actions under market rules
   49. Market rules have force of contract

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                       4

          PART 7

          COMPETITION

Section   Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
   50.    competition
          Abuse of dominant position
   51.    Exemption
   52.    Request for Authority to examine agreement or to consider
   53.    conduct, etc.
          [Repealed]
   53A.   Power to investigate
   54.    Power when conducting investigation
   55.    Power to enter premises under warrant
   56.    Privileged communication
   57.    Decision following investigation
   58.    Enforcement and appeal
   59.    Notification
   60.    Offences
   61.    Destroying or falsifying documents
   62.    False or misleading information
   63.

                                        PART 8

                                  APPEAL PANEL

64. Request to establish Appeal Panel
65. Composition and procedure of Appeal Panel
66. Powers of Appeal Panel

                                        PART 9

        ELECTRICAL AND SUPPLY INSTALLATIONS, CABLE
          DETECTION WORK AND ELECTRICAL WORKERS

67. Licence required for use or operation of electrical or supply
         installation, etc.

68. Notice to electricity licensee to cut off supply
69. Supply lines and other apparatus on State land
70. Existing electrical or supply installation
71. Exemption of certain electrical or supply installation
72. Control by electrical worker
73. Inspection of electrical or supply installation
74. Restriction of use to specified purpose

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
5         Electricity Act 2001                                              2020 Ed.

Section   Procedure in case of defect in electrical or supply installation
   75.    Suspension and revocation of electrical or supply installation
   76.    licence
          Entry upon premises
   77.    Authority not liable for operation of electrical or supply
   78.    installation
          Cable detection work to be carried out before earthworks
   79.    Carrying out of earthworks within vicinity of high voltage
   80.    electricity cable
          Powers of Authority in relation to cable detection work
   81.    Licensing of electrical worker
   82.

                                          PART 10

                                         OFFENCES

   83. Offences relating to electrical or supply installations
   84. Restoration of supply without consent
   85. Damage to property of electricity licensee
   85A. Damage to submarine electricity cables, etc.
   86. Falsely pretending to be employee of Authority or electricity

            licensee
   87. Unauthorised use of electricity
   88. Obstructing licensee in performance of duties
   89. Making of false statements
   90. Jurisdiction of court
   91. Offences by body corporate
   92. General penalties
   93. Composition of offences

          PART 11

          MISCELLANEOUS

    94.   Serious accidents to be reported and investigated
    94A.  Effect of winding up
    95.   Power to administer oaths, etc.
    96.   Powers of arrest
    97.   General exemption
    98.   Appeal to Minister
    99.   Service of documents
   100.   Recovery of fees and penalties
   100A.  Payment into Consolidated Fund

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     6

Section   Keeping of register
          Effect of direction
  101.    Regulations
  102.    Incorporation by reference
  103.    Advisory guidelines
  103A.   Repeal
  103B.   Reference in any written law
  104.
  105.

An Act to create a competitive market framework for the electricity
  industry, to make provision for the safety, technical and economic
  regulation of the generation, transmission, supply and use of
  electricity, and for other matters connected therewith.

                [1 April 2001: Except Parts III to X, sections 94 to 104
                                                and section 105(1) and (2) ;

                1 December 2002: Sections 82, 89 to 93, 103 and 104 ;
                         1 January 2003: Part III (with the exception of

                   section 21(2) and (3)), Parts IV to VIII, sections 67
                         to 81, 83 to 88, 94 to 102 and 105(1) and (2) ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Electricity Act 2001.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “ancillary service” means a service required or provided for the
         security or reliability of the electricity system;
      “apparatus” means any electrical apparatus, equipment or
         accessory and includes all apparatuses, machines,
         consuming devices and fittings in which one or more
         conductors are used or of which they form a part;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
7  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

   “Appeal Panel” means a panel established by the Minister under
      section 65;

   “authorised officer” means any person authorised by the
      Authority under section 3(2);

   “Authority” means the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
      established under the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
      Act 2001;

   “cable detection work” means any work of detecting or locating
      any electricity cable;

   “cable detection worker” means any person whose trade or
      occupation requires or includes the personal performance by
      him or her of cable detection work;

   “cable detection work licence” means a licence granted under
      section 81;

   “code of practice” means a code issued or approved by the
      Authority under section 16;

   “conductor” means an electrical conductor arranged to be
      electrically connected to an electrical system;

   “consumer” means a person —

   (a) to whom electricity is supplied and sold for
        consumption on that person’s own premises; or

   (b) whose premises are for the time being connected to
        any system for the purpose of purchasing a supply of
        electricity for consumption on that person’s own
        premises;

   “contestable consumer” means a consumer who, in accordance
      with this Act, purchases electricity —

   (a) from a retail electricity licensee;

   (b) directly from any wholesale electricity market; or

   (c) indirectly from any wholesale electricity market
       through a market support services licensee;

                                                              [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     8

“document” includes electronic records;

“Earth” means the conductive mass of the Earth whose electric
   potential at any point is conventionally taken as zero;

“earthworks” means —

          (a) any act of excavating earth, rock or other material (by
               whatever means);

          (b) any act done on, in or under the ground in connection
               with —

          (i) any work for or relating to the construction,
              reconstruction, extension, renovation,
              alteration, demolition or repair of any
              building, road, railway, bridge, viaduct,
              flyover, sewer or sewerage works;

          (ii) any work for or relating to the laying,
               inspecting, repairing or renewing of any
               main, pipe, cable, fitting or other apparatus;

          (iii) any soil investigation work; or

          (iv) such other works as are usually undertaken by a
               person carrying on business as a contractor in
               the construction industry or as a professional
               civil or structural engineer;

          (c) any act of boring, dredging, jacking, levelling, piling
              or tunnelling on or under any premises or street by
              any mechanical means; or

          (d) the driving or sinking of any bar, rod, pole, picket,
               casing or tube into the ground;

“electric line” means any line which is used for carrying
   electricity for any purpose and includes —

          (a) any support for the line, that is to say, any structure,
               pole or other thing in, on, by or from which the line is
               or may be supported, carried or suspended;

          (b) any apparatus connected to the line for the purposes
               of carrying electricity;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
9  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

   (c) any wire, cable, tube, pipe or other similar thing
       (including its casing or coating) which surrounds or
       supports, or is surrounded or supported by, or is
       installed in close proximity to, or is supported,
       carried or suspended in association with, the line; and

   (d) any electricity cable;

   “electrical installation” means any appliance, wire, fitting or
      other apparatus placed in, on, over or under any premises and
      used for or for purposes incidental to the conveyance, control
      or use of electricity supplied or intended to be supplied by an
      electricity licensee or any other person, and includes a supply
      installation and any addition, alteration, and repair to an
      electrical installation, but does not include —

   (a) any electric line, supply line or electrical plant —

   (i) of a transmission licensee for the transmission
       of electricity; or

   (ii) of a generation licensee for the generation of
        electricity;

   (b) any appliance, wire, fitting or apparatus connected to
        and beyond any electrical outlet which is installed for
        the purpose of connecting electrical appliances,
        fittings or apparatuses and at which fixed wiring
        terminates;

                                                              [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

   (c) any appliance, wire, fitting or apparatus which is
        placed in, on, over or under any premises owned or
        occupied by a transmission licensee which is not used
        for the consumption of electricity on the premises or
        solely for the purposes incidental to the conveyance
        or control of electricity so consumed; or

                                                              [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

   (d) an electric vehicle charger within the meaning of the
        Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022;

                                                              [Act 43 of 2022 wef 08/12/2023]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     10

“electrical plant” means any plant, equipment, apparatus or
   appliance used for, or for purposes connected with, the
   supply of electricity;

“electrical or supply installation licence” means a licence
   granted by the Authority under section 67;

“electrical system” means an electrical system in which all the
   conductors and apparatuses are electrically or magnetically
   connected;

“electrical work” means any work performed or carried out on
   any electrical installation and includes the installing,
   constructing, erecting or repairing thereof or the altering of
   the structure thereof or the replacing of any part thereof or the
   adding of any part thereto or the carrying out of any work
   thereon for the maintenance thereof, but does not include
   work in relation to —

          (a) the manufacturing of any electrical installation or the
               assembling thereof in the course of or in connection
               with its manufacture for the purpose of producing a
               new article; or

          (b) the oiling, greasing, cleaning or painting of any
               electrical installation;

“electrical worker” means any person whose trade or occupation
   requires or includes the personal performance by him or her
   of electrical work or a person who is otherwise competent or
   qualified to perform personally electrical work;

“electrical worker licence” means a licence granted by the
   Authority under section 82;

“electricity” means electrical power when generated,
   transmitted, supplied or used for any purpose except the
   transmission of any communication or signal;

“electricity cable” means a length of insulated single conductor
   or of 2 or more such conductors, whether or not the conductor
   or conductors are provided with an overall covering for
   mechanical protection, and —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
11  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) all other apparatus or devices connected to the
         conductor or conductors, as the case may be
         (including by any remote or wireless means); and

    (b) any data communication cable used to monitor or
         control the transmission of electricity;

    “electricity licence” means a licence granted or extended by the
       Authority under section 9;

    “electricity licensee” means any person who is granted an
       electricity licence by the Authority;

    “electricity system” means a system comprising a transmission
       system of a transmission licensee and generating stations
       connected directly or indirectly to the transmission system;

    “electronic records” has the meaning given by the Electronic
       Transactions Act 2010;

    “export”, in relation to electricity, means the supply of electricity
       generated in Singapore to any person or premises outside
       Singapore;

    “generate” means to produce electricity by means of a
       generating station for the purpose of giving a supply to any
       premises or enabling a supply to be so given;

    “generating station” means any installation used for, or for
       purposes connected with, the production of electricity;

    “generating unit” means any apparatus used for, or for purposes
       connected with, the production of electricity;

    “generation licensee” means a person who is authorised by an
       electricity licence to generate electricity;

    “greenhouse gas” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
       Carbon Pricing Act 2018;

                                                                           [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

    “high voltage” means a voltage exceeding 1000V a.c. or
       1500V d.c. between conductors, or 600V a.c. or 900V d.c.
       between each conductor and Earth;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.      Electricity Act 2001                                 12

“import”, in relation to electricity, means the supply of
   electricity generated outside Singapore to any person or
   premises in Singapore;

“information” includes information contained in electronic
   records;

“installation” means, except for the purposes of Part 9, any
   plant, apparatus, structure, equipment or thing used for the
   generation, transmission, supply or use of electricity;

“licensed” —

          (a) in relation to a cable detection worker, means a
               person who holds a valid cable detection work
               licence permitting him or her to perform personally
               such cable detection work as is specified in his or her
               licence; or

          (b) in relation to an electrical worker, means a person
               who holds a valid electrical worker licence
               permitting him or her to perform personally such
               electrical work as is specified in his or her licence;

“low voltage” means a voltage not exceeding 1000V a.c. or
   1500V d.c. between conductors, or 600V a.c. or 900V d.c.
   between each conductor and Earth;

“main” means a supply line through which electricity is or can
   be supplied, whether the line is in use or not;

“market participant” means a person —

          (a) authorised by an electricity licence; and

          (b) registered in accordance with the market rules,

          to trade in any wholesale electricity market, and includes —

          (c) a transmission licensee;

          (d) the Authority (if the Authority engages in the
               generation, import or export of electricity);

          (e) any entity wholly-owned by the Authority that
              engages in the generation of electricity but is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
13  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    exempt under section 8 from the requirement of a
    generation licence; and

            (f) any department of the Government which generates
                 electricity before 1 April 2001;

                                                                           [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

    “market rules” means the rules made or modified under
       section 46;

    “market support services” means any of the following activities
       in connection with the supply of electricity:

    (a) the reading of the register of any electricity meter and
         the management of data relating to meter reading;

    (b) the facilitation of access to any wholesale electricity
         market for the purposes of obtaining supply of
         electricity for contestable consumers and retail
         electricity licensees;

    (c) the provision of customer transfer services for retail
        electricity licensees and consumers to facilitate the
        transfer of contestable consumers between one retail
        electricity licensee and another or between retail
        electricity licensees and market support services
        licensees;

    (d) the provision of other services related to access to any
         wholesale electricity market and the retail electricity
         market;

                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

    (e) the supply and sale of electricity to non‑contestable
         consumers;

            (f) the inspection of electrical installations to assess their
                 safety;

                                                                           [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

    “market support services licensee” means a person who is
       authorised by an electricity licence to provide market support
       services;

    “meter” means any device for measuring the flow of electricity;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     14

“meter installation” means any meter and, if so equipped, its
   associated equipment, apparatus, device and installation,
   including any self-contained meter transformers, wiring, seal,
   meter test terminal block, test links, fuses, lamps, data
   recorders, circuit breakers, and communication modems
   required to provide remote access to the metered data so
   that readings from the meter can be taken;

“modification” includes any amendment, addition, alteration
   and variation;

“non-contestable consumer” means a consumer who is not a
   contestable consumer;

“occupier” means the person in occupation of any premises and
   includes the person having the charge, management or
   control of the premises either on the person’s own account
   or as an agent of another person, but does not include a
   lodger;

“premises” includes buildings, structures, streets, lands, waters,
   tenements, easements of any tenure, whether State land or
   not, whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not,
   whether public or private, and whether maintained or not
   under statutory authority;

“regulations” means the regulations made under this Act;

“retail” means to sell or offer to sell electricity to a contestable
   consumer;

“retail electricity licensee” means a person who is authorised by
   an electricity licence to retail electricity to a contestable
   consumer;

“retail electricity market” means the market in which electricity
   is retailed to a contestable consumer;

“shares”, in relation to a company, means shares in, or stocks
   forming part of, the capital of the company;

“street” includes any road, highway, square, footway or passage,
   whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the public has a
   right of way, the way over any public bridge, and any road,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
15                   Electricity Act 2001                    2020 Ed.

    footway or passage, open court or open alley, used or
    intended to be used as a means of access to 2 or more
    holdings, whether the public has a right of way thereover or
    not; and all channels, sewers, drains, tunnels, ditches and
    reserves at the side of any street are deemed to be part of the
    street;

    “supply” means the supply of electricity through electric lines,
       and includes —

    (a) the supply of electricity generated outside Singapore
         to any person or premises in Singapore; and

    (b) the supply of electricity generated in Singapore to
         any person or premises outside Singapore;

    “supply installation” means the whole of any plant or apparatus
       in an installation owned or managed by a person for the
       provision of electricity (other than electricity used for the
       transmission of any communication or signal) solely for the
       person’s own use, including any machine supplying
       mechanical energy to a generator, with all necessary related
       plant, buildings and land, supply lines and consuming
       apparatuses, if any;

    “supply line” means a conductor or other means of conveying,
       transmitting or distributing electricity, together with all or
       any part of any casing, coating, covering, tube, pipe, insulator
       or post enclosing, surrounding or supporting the conductor or
       any part thereof, or any related building or apparatus for the
       purpose of transforming, conveying, transmitting or
       distributing electricity;

    “trade” means —

    (a) to sell electricity, ancillary services or any other
         electricity-related product or service to a person other
         than a consumer who is being supplied and sold
         electricity by a retail electricity licensee or market
         support services licensee; or

    (b) to purchase electricity, ancillary services or any other
         electricity-related product or service, where such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     16

          purchase is made by a person other than a consumer
          who is being supplied and sold electricity by a retail
          electricity licensee or market support services
          licensee;

“transmission agent licensee” means a person authorised by an
   electricity licence to transmit electricity for or on behalf of a
   transmission licensee;

“transmission licensee” means a person authorised by an
   electricity licence to transmit electricity;

“transmission system” means a system of interconnected
   electric lines, electrical plants and substations used to
   transmit electricity;

“transmit” means to convey electricity by means of a
   transmission system —

          (a) from an electrical plant to a substation;

        (b) from one electrical plant to another or from one
             substation to another;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

        (c) from a substation or an electrical plant to the
             electrical installation serving the premises of a
             consumer or, where such premises are not served
             by an electrical installation, from a substation or an
             electrical plant directly to such premises; or

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

        (d) from an electrical plant or substation to the territorial
             limit of Singapore, or vice versa;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

“wholesale electricity market” means an electricity market
   established by the market rules for the trading of electricity,
   ancillary services or any other electricity-related product or
   service.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]
                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, where a transmission licensee uses
any generating unit (including any energy storage system) for, or for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
17  Electricity Act 2001  2020 Ed.

purposes connected with, its transmission of electricity, then, despite
any production of electricity from the generating unit for, or for
purposes connected with, its transmission of electricity, the
transmission licensee is not regarded as generating electricity to the
extent of that use.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Authority to administer Act

 3.—(1) The Authority is charged with the general administration of
this Act and the exercise of the functions and duties imposed on the
Authority by this Act.

 (2) The Authority may authorise any person to assist it in the
exercise of its functions and duties under this Act, either generally or
in a particular case.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is the function and duty
of the Authority —

       (a) to protect the interests of consumers with regard to —

               (i) the prices charged and other terms for the supply of
                   electricity;

              (ii) the reliability, availability and continuity of supply of
                   electricity; and

             (iii) the quality of electricity services provided;

       (b) to promote —

               (i) the efficient use of electricity by consumers; and

              (ii) economic efficiency and the maintenance of such
                   efficiency in the electricity industry;

       (c) to perform the functions of economic and technical
            regulator for the electricity industry, including the
            exercise of licensing and regulatory functions in respect
            of the generation, transmission, import, export, trading and
            retail of electricity, the provision of market support

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     18

          services, the operation of any wholesale electricity market
          and the establishment of standards of performance and
          codes of practice relating to any matter in connection
          therewith;

(ca) to implement (whether through regulation or otherwise)
      policies, strategies, measures, standards or any other
      requirements on any matter for or connected with the
      reduction in emission of any greenhouse gas in the
      generation, transmission, import, export or supply of
      electricity;

                                                                      [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 (d) to secure that electricity licensees whose prices are
      controlled by the Authority are able to provide an
      efficient service and maintain financial viability;

          (e) to ensure security of supply of electricity to consumers and
              to arrange for the secure operation of a transmission system
              of a transmission licensee in accordance with the market
              rules or other codes of practice;

(ea) in connection with any purpose under paragraph (a), to
      construct, acquire (whether by purchase, lease or
      otherwise), develop, manage (including by leasing out
      for use) or operate —

          (i) any generating unit (including any energy storage
              system);

          (ii) any generating station or any part of a generating
               station; or

          (iii) any of the following (whether in or outside
                Singapore) for or in connection with the import of
                electricity to, or the export of electricity from,
                Singapore:

          (A) any electrical installation or any part of an
               electrical installation;

          (B) any electric line or any part of an electric line;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
19  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (C) any generating unit (including any energy
         storage system);

                (D) any generating station or any part of a
                      generating station;

                                                                       [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

    (f) to protect the public from dangers arising from the
        generation, transmission, supply or use of electricity;

    (fa) to cooperate and collaborate with the Land Transport
         Authority of Singapore in the discharge of its functions
         under the Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995
         or other written law insofar as those functions relate to —

    (i) promoting and regulating the safe use of electric
        vehicle chargers in Singapore;

    (ii) setting of standards for devices and equipment that
         are electrical installations and used in the charging of
         an electric vehicle; and

    (iii) undertaking or facilitating the development and
          maintenance in Singapore of accessible charging
          points in public and common areas and other
          ancillary facilities that allow for the safe transfer of
          electricity to an electric vehicle;

    (g) to create an economic regulatory framework in respect of
         the generation, transmission, import, export, trading and
         retail of electricity, the provision of market support
         services and the operation of any wholesale electricity
         market which —

    (i) promotes and safeguards competition and fair and
        efficient market conduct or, in the absence of a
        competitive market, prevents the misuse of
        monopoly or market power; and

    (ii) provides non-discriminatory access to any wholesale
         electricity market and to transmission services and
         market support services;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     20

(h) to advise the Government on all matters relating to the
     generation, transmission, trading, retail and use of
     electricity, the provision of market support services and
     the operation of any wholesale electricity market; and

        (i) to do such other things as are required under this Act and
            take such steps as are necessary or expedient for the
            effective discharge of its functions and duties under this
            Act.

                                                                                                [42/2018; 13/2021]

 (4) In performing its functions and exercising its powers, the
Authority must —

(a) use its reasonable endeavours to apply principles and
     methodologies to licensees who conduct similar activities
     within a particular sector of the electricity industry in a
     non‑discriminatory manner; and

(b) act in a reasonable manner in all circumstances.

 (5) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Authority, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, “consumers” includes both
existing and future consumers of electricity.

Power to obtain information

 4.—(1) The Authority or any authorised officer may by notice
require any person to furnish, within a reasonable period specified in
the notice, all documents and information relating to any matter as
reasonably required by the Authority to carry out the functions or
duties assigned to the Authority by or under this Act, which are within
the knowledge of that person or in that person’s custody or under that
person’s control.

 (2) The power to require a person to furnish any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
21  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) if the document or information is not furnished, to require
         that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
         and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Authority in legible form.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence.

(4) Any person who —

    (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
         or information which the person has been required by a
         notice under subsection (1) to furnish; or

    (b) in furnishing any document or information required under
         subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
         knows to be false in a material particular or recklessly
         makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the Authority, make such order as
the court thinks fit to secure compliance with such notice and any
such order may provide that all the costs or expenses of and incidental
to the application are to be borne by such person or by any officer of a
company or other association who is responsible for the failure.

 (6) The Authority through an authorised officer may, at any time
after the expiry of the period specified in the notice referred to in
subsection (1), enter any building or place where the Authority has
reason to believe that any document or information, in respect of
which it has given the notice, may be found, and seize or take extracts
or copies of any such document or information.

 (7) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or any copy or extract thereof, furnished
to it under subsection (1) or obtained under subsection (6).

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     22

 (8) Except in the performance of the person’s functions or duties or
when required to do so by any court or under any written law, no
person who is or has been a member, an officer, an employee or an
agent of the Authority or a member of a committee of the Authority
may disclose any information relating to the affairs of the Authority
or of any other person which has been obtained by the person in the
performance of the person’s functions or duties.

 (9) Any person who contravenes subsection (8) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Restriction on disclosure of confidential information

 5.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) any information or document is given by a person to the
            Authority under this Act (other than Part 7); and

       (b) at the time such information or document is given, the
            person notifies the Authority in writing that it is of a
            confidential or commercially sensitive nature.

 (2) The Authority must not disclose to any person the information
or the contents of a document to which this section applies unless —

       (a) the Authority is of the opinion that —

               (i) the disclosure of the information or the contents of
                   the document would not cause detriment to the
                   person supplying it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or document; or

              (ii) although the disclosure of the information or the
                   contents of the document would cause detriment to
                   the person supplying it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or document, the public
                   benefit in disclosing it outweighs that detriment;

       (b) the Authority gives written notice to —

               (i) the person who supplied the information or
                   document; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
23  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (ii) any other person whom the Authority is aware has
         supplied the information or document to the person
         referred to in sub‑paragraph (i), where the identity of
         such other person is known to the Authority,

    (b) stating that the Authority wishes to disclose the
         information or contents of the document, specifying the
         nature of the intended disclosure, setting out detailed
         reasons why the Authority wishes to make the disclosure
         and setting out a copy of this section; and

    (c) no appeal is made to the Minister under subsection (3)
        within 7 days of the date of the giving of the notice.

 (3) A person aggrieved by a notice under subsection (2)(b) may
appeal to the Minister under section 98(1) within 7 days of the date of
giving of the notice.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (4) Subsection (2) does not prevent the Authority from disclosing
any information or the contents of any document —

    (a) to any member, officer or employee of the Authority or any
         agent, consultant, committee or panel acting for or under
         the direction of the Authority;

    (b) to the Minister or any agent, consultant, committee or
         panel acting for or under the Minister’s direction;

    (c) to an Appeal Panel;

    (d) when required to do so by any court or under any written
         law; or

    (e) for the purposes of any criminal proceedings.

                                                             [18/2006]

 (5) For the purposes of this section, the disclosure of any
information or the contents of a document already in the public
domain at the time the Authority wishes to disclose it cannot cause
detriment to any person referred to in subsection (2)(a).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     24

                        PART 3

LICENSING OF ACTIVITIES RELATING TO ELECTRICITY

Prohibition on unauthorised activities relating to electricity

6.—(1) No person may —

(a) engage in the generation of electricity;

(b) engage in the transmission of electricity;

          (c) transmit electricity for or on behalf of a transmission
              licensee (other than as an employee of the transmission
              licensee);

(d) engage in the retail of electricity;

          (e) import or export electricity;

          (f) provide any market support services;

(g) trade in any wholesale electricity market;

(h) operate any wholesale electricity market; or

          (i) carry on any other activity relating to electricity that the
              Minister may, by order in the Gazette, specify,

unless the person is authorised to do so by an electricity licence
granted under section 9 or is exempted under section 8.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (1A) The requirement of an electricity licence in subsection (1) for
a person that engages in the generation or transmission of electricity,
imports or exports electricity, or trades in any wholesale electricity
market, does not apply to the Authority.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$500,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $12,500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
25  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

Application for licence, extension or exemption

 7.—(1) An application for an electricity licence, an extension to an
electricity licence or an exemption under this Part must be —

    (a) made in writing to the Authority and must be in such form
         as may be determined by the Authority; and

    (b) accompanied by such information and documents and fee
         as may be determined by the Authority.

 (2) In determining whether to grant or extend an electricity licence
to or for a particular person, the Authority must consider the
following:

    (a) the ability of that person to finance the carrying on of the
         particular activity;

    (b) the experience of that person in carrying on the activity,
         and that person’s ability to perform the duties which would
         be imposed on that person under this Act and the electricity
         licence, if granted;

    (c) whether that person is related to any gas transporter under
        the Gas Act 2001;

    (d) whether or not that person is related to any electricity
         licensee or any person granted an exemption under
         section 8; and

    (e) the functions and duties of the Authority under section 3.

Exemption

 8.—(1) Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the Authority may, with
the approval of the Minister, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or class of persons from complying with section 6(1) for any
specified period —

       (a) generally or to such an extent as may be specified in the
            order; and

       (b) unconditionally or subject to such conditions as may be
            specified in the order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     26

 (2) An exemption order, unless previously revoked, continues in
force for such period as may be specified in the order.

 (3) In granting an exemption under this section, the Authority must
act in a manner so as not to discriminate between members of a
particular class.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (1)(b), the conditions imposed
under that subsection may require any person carrying on any activity
in pursuance of the exemption —

(a) to comply with any direction given by the Authority as to
     such matters as are specified in the exemption order or are
     of a description so specified;

(b) to do or not to do such things as are specified in the
     exemption order or are of a description so specified, except
     insofar as the Authority consents to the person’s doing or
     not doing them; and

          (c) to refer for determination by the Authority such questions
              arising from or under the exemption order as are specified
              in the order or are of a description so specified.

 (5) If any condition of an exemption granted to a class of persons is
not complied with by any person of that class, the Authority may give
to that person a direction declaring that the exemption, so far as the
exemption relates to that person, is revoked to such extent and with
effect from such date as may be specified in the direction.

 (6) A transmission licensee, a transmission agent licensee and a
market support services licensee must not be granted an exemption
under this section.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (7) An electricity licensee who is authorised by a licence to operate
any wholesale electricity market must not be granted an exemption
under this section.

Electricity licences

 9.—(1) The Authority may grant or extend an electricity licence,
unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Authority may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
27  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

impose and specify in the licence, and revocably or irrevocably as
specified therein, authorising any person to —

    (a) generate electricity;

    (b) transmit electricity;

    (c) transmit electricity for or on behalf of a transmission
        licensee;

    (d) retail electricity;

    (e) import or export electricity;

    (f) provide any market support services;

    (g) trade in any wholesale electricity market;

    (h) operate any wholesale electricity market; or

        (i) for the purpose mentioned in paragraph (i) of section 6(1),
            carry on such activity relating to electricity as may be
            specified in any order made under that paragraph.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 (2) No transmission licensee, transmission agent licensee or market
support services licensee may be granted an electricity licence to
carry out any activity other than the transmission of electricity, the
transmitting of electricity for or on behalf of a transmission licensee
or the provision of market support services, respectively.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (3) A gas transporter under the Gas Act 2001 must not be granted an
electricity licence under subsection (1)(a), (d), (e) or (g).

 (4) No electricity licensee who is authorised by a licence to operate
any wholesale electricity market may be granted an electricity licence
to carry out any activity other than the operation of that market.

 (5) Every electricity licence granted or extended under this section
must be in writing and continues in force, unless revoked or
suspended in accordance with this Part, for such period as may be
specified in the electricity licence.

 (6) An electricity licence may include any restriction or condition
(whether or not relating to the activities authorised by the electricity

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     28

licence) which appears to the Authority to be requisite or expedient
having regard to the functions and duties of the Authority under
section 3.

 (7) Without limiting subsections (1) and (6), an electricity licence
may include any condition —

(a) requiring the electricity licensee —

          (i) to pay to the Authority a fee on the grant of the
              electricity licence or to pay to it periodic fees during
              the currency of the licence or both, of such amount as
              may be determined by or under the licence;

          (ii) to enter into any agreement or arrangement on
               specified terms or on terms of a specified type
               relating to its trading or operation or for the
               connection to or use of any electric line or plant
               owned or operated by the electricity licensee or the
               other party to the agreement or arrangement;

          (iii) to observe, with such modification or exemption as
                may be approved by the Authority, specified codes of
                practice and the market rules;

          (iv) to maintain specified financial accounting records
               and prepare financial accounts according to specified
               principles;

          (v) to appoint, at such intervals and on such terms as the
               Authority may direct, an independent technical
               auditor for the purposes specified in the condition;

          (vi) to prepare for approval by the Authority guidelines
               regarding the procedures the licensee must follow in
               the event of any public emergency;

          (vii) to do or not to do such things as are specified in the
                electricity licence or are of a description so specified;
                and

          (viii) where the electricity licensee is a transmission
                 licensee, to carry out any work related to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
29  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    development of a transmission system or the supply
    of electricity to any premises;

    (b) controlling or fixing prices to be charged for the services
         provided by a transmission licensee, a market support
         services licensee or an electricity licensee authorised to
         operate any wholesale electricity market including —

    (i) the fixing of prices or the rate of increase or decrease
        in prices;

    (ii) the fixing of a maximum price or maximum rate of
         increase or minimum rate of decrease in the
         maximum price;

    (iii) the fixing of an average price or an average rate of
          increase or decrease in the average price;

    (iv) the setting of pricing policies or principles;

    (v) the setting of prices with reference to a general price
         index, the cost of production, a rate of return on
         assets employed or any specified factor; and

    (vi) the setting of prices with reference to the quantity,
         location, period or other specified factors relevant to
         the activities authorised by the licence;

    (c) in the case of a transmission licensee, a market support
        services licensee or an electricity licensee authorised to
        operate any wholesale electricity market —

    (i) imposing controls and restrictions, directly or
        indirectly, on the creation, holding or disposal of
        shares in the licensee or its shareholders or of
        interests in the undertaking of the licensee or any part
        thereof; and

    (ii) imposing restrictions on the carrying on by the
         licensee of any trade or business which is not related
         to the activity which the licensee is authorised by its
         electricity licence to carry on; and

    (d) which provides for any one or more of the conditions
         specified in the electricity licence to cease to have effect at

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     30

            such times and in such manner and circumstances as may
            be specified in or determined by or under the condition.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (8) The Authority must in writing notify an applicant for the grant
or extension of an electricity licence of its decision to grant or refuse
to grant or extend the licence and, in the case of a decision to refuse to
grant or extend the licence, the reasons for its decision.

Special condition in market support services licence

 10. Without limiting section 9(1) and (6), the conditions specified
in an electricity licence, to which a market support services licensee
may be subject, may include a requirement that the licensee must
provide market support services to a contestable consumer on terms
and conditions approved by the Authority for the purpose of allowing
the consumer (if the consumer remains a contestable consumer under
section 41(1)) to purchase electricity indirectly from any wholesale
electricity market through the licensee in circumstances in which —

       (a) the contestable consumer does not, cannot or no longer
            wishes to purchase electricity from a retail electricity
            licensee or directly from any wholesale electricity market;
            or

       (b) a retail electricity licensee is unable or refuses to retail
            electricity to the contestable consumer for any reason.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

Restriction on transfer of electricity licence

 11.—(1) No electricity licence is transferable to any other person
without the approval in writing of the Authority.

 (2) Any purported transfer of an electricity licence is void.

Modification of conditions of electricity licence

 12.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may modify the
conditions of an electricity licence.

 (2) The Authority must not modify any condition of an electricity
licence unless the Authority is satisfied that the modification is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
31  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

requisite or expedient having regard to the functions and duties of the
Authority under section 3.

 (3) Before making any modification to the conditions of an
electricity licence under this section, the Authority must give
notice to the electricity licensee concerned and other electricity
licensees likely to be affected by the proposed modification —

    (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make a modification
         in the manner specified in the notice;

    (b) stating the reasons why the Authority proposes to make the
         modification, including whether the need for the
         modification was the subject of a prior representation
         made by a third party or the electricity licensee concerned;
         and

    (c) specifying the period from the date of the giving of the
        notice (not being less than 28 days) within which written
        representations with respect to the proposed modification
        may be made.

 (4) Where the Authority receives any written representation under
subsection (3), the Authority must consider such representation and
may —

    (a) reject the representation; or

    (b) withdraw or amend the proposed modification in
         accordance with the representation or otherwise,

and, in either event, it must thereupon issue a written direction to the
electricity licensee concerned requiring that effect be given to the
proposed modification specified in the notice (if any) or to such
modification as may be subsequently amended by the Authority,
within a reasonable time.

 (5) Any electricity licensee who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority under subsection (4) may, within 14 days of the receipt by it
of the direction of the Authority, appeal to the Appeal Panel under
Part 8.

 (6) The Authority must not enforce a direction given under
subsection (4) —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     32

(a) during the period referred to in subsection (3)(c) unless the
     electricity licensee concerned consents to the modification
     referred to under subsection (3)(a) taking effect before the
     end of such period; and

(b) whilst the appeal of any electricity licensee is under
     consideration by the Appeal Panel.

 (7) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the period specified in subsection (3)(c) or if any written
representation made under that subsection is subsequently
withdrawn, the Authority may forthwith carry out the modification
as specified in the notice given under that subsection.

Revocation or suspension of electricity licence

 13.—(1) Subsection (2) applies if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) an electricity licensee has gone into compulsory
            liquidation or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (b) any circumstance specified in an electricity licence that
            gives rise to the Authority’s power to revoke or suspend the
            licence exists;

       (c) an electricity licensee has not complied with any direction
            or requirement issued by the Authority under section 14;

       (d) an electricity licensee is no longer in a position to operate
            in conformity with this Act or the terms and conditions of
            its electricity licence; or

       (e) the public interest or security of Singapore requires.

 (2) The Authority may, by written notice and without any
compensation —

       (a) revoke an electricity licence or suspend an electricity
            licence for such period as the Authority thinks fit; and

       (b) in the case of subsection (1)(b) or (c), require the payment
            of a financial penalty, in addition to the imposition of any
            sanction under section 14, of an amount not exceeding
            10% of the annual turnover of that part of an electricity

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
33  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    licensee’s business in respect of which the licensee holds a
    licence, ascertained from the licensee’s latest audited
    accounts, or an amount not exceeding $1 million,
    whichever is higher.

Enforcement

 14. If the Authority is satisfied that an electricity licensee is
contravening, or is likely to contravene or has contravened any
condition of its electricity licence, any code of practice or other
standard of performance applicable to the licensee, any provision of
this Act or any direction (including a direction under paragraph (a))
issued by the Authority to or applicable to the electricity licensee, the
Authority may by written notice to the electricity licensee do one or
more of the following:

       (a) direct the electricity licensee to do or not do such things as
            are specified in such direction;

       (b) require the electricity licensee to provide a performance
            bond, guarantee or any other form of security on such
            terms and conditions as the Authority may determine;

       (c) require the electricity licensee to pay a financial penalty of
            an amount not exceeding 10% of the annual turnover of
            that part of the licensee’s business in respect of which the
            licensee holds a licence, ascertained from the licensee’s
            latest audited accounts, or an amount not exceeding
            $1 million, whichever is higher.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 15. [Repealed by Act 18 of 2006]

Codes of practice

 16.—(1) The Authority may issue or approve one or more codes of
practice and other standards of performance for the regulation of
activities and conduct in the electricity industry.

 (2) A code of practice issued or approved under this section may be
modified by the Authority in accordance with the relevant code of
practice by notice published in such manner as will secure adequate
publicity.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     34

 (2A) A code of practice issued or approved under this section may
require the reduction of any emission of any greenhouse gas in the
generation, transmission, import, export or supply of electricity,
whether through importing from any source, or the use of any
resource, methodology or technology, or the imposition of any
emission standard, or otherwise.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice issued or approved by
the Authority is inconsistent with the regulations, such provision, to
the extent of the inconsistency —

(a) has effect subject to such regulations; or

(b) having regard to such regulations, does not have effect.

 (4) Any code of practice issued or approved by the Authority under
this section is deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

 (5) In this section, a reference to a code of practice includes a
standard of performance.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

Direction by Authority

 17.—(1) The Authority may give directions for or with respect to
codes of practice and other standards of performance and procedures
to be observed by electricity licensees and other persons —

       (a) to ensure the reliability of the supply of electricity to the
            public;

       (b) to ensure the security of the electricity system;

       (c) to maintain the voltage or reactive flow of power through a
            transmission system of a transmission licensee;

       (d) in the interests of public safety; or

       (e) as may be necessary to allow the Authority to carry out its
            functions and duties under section 3.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) In giving any direction under subsection (1), the Authority must
have regard to the market rules, the effect and purpose of the market
rules and the implication of the direction on the market rules.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
35  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any direction given under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

Compliance with codes of practice

 18.—(1) Every electricity licensee must comply with the codes of
practice and other standards of performance issued or approved under
section 16 and directions given under section 17.

 (2) No electricity licensee may allow electricity to be generated,
transmitted, supplied or retailed or market support services to be
provided otherwise than in accordance with any applicable code of
practice or other standards of performance specified in the conditions
of its electricity licence, the regulations or any direction given by the
Authority.

Exclusion of liability of Authority

 19. Despite the grant of any electricity licence, the Authority is not
liable in any circumstance for any loss, damage or cost sustained by
any person as a result of any default, negligence, breach or other
wrongful act or omission of any electricity licensee or any agent or
employee of the electricity licensee.

Duties of electricity licensees

 20.—(1) It is the duty of a generation licensee to develop and
maintain a reliable, efficient, coordinated and economical system of
electricity generation in accordance with the market rules and such
applicable codes of practice and other standards of performance as
may be issued or approved by the Authority under section 16.

 (2) It is the duty of a transmission licensee —

       (a) to develop and maintain a reliable, efficient, coordinated
            and economical transmission system in accordance with
            such applicable codes of practice and other standards of
            performance as may be issued or approved by the
            Authority under section 16;

       (b) to facilitate competition in the generation and sale of
            electricity by making its transmission system available to
            persons authorised to generate, trade or retail electricity or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     36

          to provide market support services on terms which neither
          prevent nor restrict such competition; and

          (c) to provide non-discriminatory access to its transmission
              system for the supply and use of electricity in accordance
              with this Act, its transmission licence and the market rules.

 (3) It is the duty of a retail electricity licensee to develop and
maintain a reliable, efficient, coordinated and economical electricity
retail business in accordance with such applicable codes of practice
and other standards of performance as may be issued or approved by
the Authority under section 16.

(4) It is the duty of a market support services licensee —

(a) to develop and maintain a reliable, efficient, coordinated
     and economical system for the provision of market support
     services in accordance with such applicable codes of
     practice and other standards of performance as may be
     issued or approved by the Authority under section 16;

(b) to facilitate competition in the retail of electricity by
     providing market support services to consumers and retail
     electricity licensees on terms which neither prevent nor
     restrict such competition; and

          (c) to provide non-discriminatory access to its market support
              services in order to facilitate retail competition in
              accordance with this Act, its market support services
              licence and the market rules.

 (5) It is the duty of an electricity licensee to ensure that it will not do
or not omit to do any act which will adversely affect, directly or
indirectly, the security and stability of the electricity supplied by it or
by any other person to consumers.

Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.

 20A.—(1) The Authority may direct any person mentioned in any
of the following paragraphs to allow an electricity licensee (E) to
carry out any activity described in the paragraph:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
37  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) to connect any key conduit of E to any key facility or key
         conduit of a person and to use the key facility or key
         conduit of the person;

    (b) to install and use any key conduit of E at any premises
         owned or occupied by a person;

    (c) to install and use any usage equipment of E at a key facility
        or key conduit of a person, or a key conduit of E,
        mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

    (d) to use any prescribed wharf or jetty owned or occupied by a
         person, to berth any vessel on which E is to load or from
         which E is to discharge any material of E, and to load the
         material onto or discharge the material from the vessel;

    (e) to use any equipment, apparatus, appliance or facility, or
        any key conduit, of a person at any prescribed wharf or
        jetty, to enable E —

    (i) to load any material of E onto or discharge any
        material of E from any vessel berthed at the
        prescribed wharf or jetty; or

    (ii) to bring any material of E to or away from the
         prescribed wharf or jetty;

        (f) to install and use any equipment, apparatus, appliance or
            facility of E at a prescribed wharf or jetty owned or
            occupied by a person, to enable E to carry out any activity
            described in paragraph (e)(i) or (ii).

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (1A) To avoid doubt, the Authority may issue directions to more
than one person at any one time, in relation to the same E.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (1B) To avoid doubt, the premises mentioned in subsection (1)(b)
need not be premises at which any key facility or key conduit of a
person (to which E is to connect its key conduit) is situated, or at
which E is to install any usage equipment.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (1C) The Authority may make a direction under subsection (1) only
if it considers that the direction is necessary —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     38

(a) in the public interest; or

      (b) to ensure the security and reliability of the supply of
           electricity to the public.

                                                                             [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the direction may —

(a) require the person to allow E to enter any premises owned
     or occupied by the person for the purposes of carrying out
     any activity mentioned in subsection (1) and specified in
     the direction, and in any event require the person not to do,
     or cause or allow to be done, anything that may prevent E
     from carrying out the activity; and

(b) require the person and E to enter into an agreement within
     the period of 30 days after the connection or installation
     under subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (f) has been made or the
     use in subsection (1)(d) or (e) has commenced, for the
     purposes of —

          (i) granting E a wayleave —

          (A) for the continuation of the connection or
               installation at the premises;

          (B) for E to be able to carry out maintenance works
               on —

          (BA) the connection at the premises; or

          (BB) the key conduit, usage equipment,
                 equipment, apparatus, appliance or
                 facility of E installed at the premises; or

          (C) for E to continue the use specified in the
               direction,

          (i) as the case may be; and

          (ii) reasonably compensating the person for any loss
               suffered as a result of the connection, installation or
               use,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
39  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

and the person and E must comply with a direction under
subsection (1) to the extent that it relates to either of them.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2A) The Authority may, upon the request of the person or E, grant
one or more extensions of the period mentioned in subsection (2)(b).

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3) If the person and E are unable to agree on the terms for any
matter so as to be able to enter into an agreement in accordance with a
requirement under subsection (2)(b), either the person or E may
request the Minister to establish an Appeal Panel under section 65 to
determine the reasonable terms for that matter.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) The decision of the Appeal Panel under subsection (3) must
include a date on which the person and E are treated as having entered
into an agreement comprising —

    (a) (if any) the terms agreed between the person and E; and

                                                                        [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    (b) the terms determined by the Appeal Panel,

and the person and E are treated as having entered into an agreement
with each other as from that date on all such terms.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (5) The direction of the Authority under subsection (1) is revoked
as from the date mentioned in the Appeal Panel’s decision under
subsection (4) to the extent the decision is inconsistent with that
direction.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (6) Nothing in subsection (4) prevents the person and E from
varying or terminating the agreement treated as entered into under
that subsection.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (7) A person need not comply with a direction given by the
Authority under subsection (1) for so long as an appeal under
section 98 against the direction is pending.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     40

 (8) Any person who contravenes a direction under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (9) In this section —

“key conduit” means any of the following:

          (a) any electric line;

          (b) any pipe or channel for transporting —

          (i) any fuel required in connection with the
              generation of electricity (including for the
              purpose of creating or maintaining any stocks
              of fuel, whether or not pursuant to section 27),
              but not any gas as defined in section 2 of the
              Gas Act 2001;

          (ii) any coolant (including seawater) required in
               connection with the cooling of any electrical
               plant used in generating or transmitting
               electricity; or

          (iii) any waste (including emissions) produced in
                connection with the generation of electricity, or
                the production of fuel for use in connection
                with the generation of electricity;

          (c) any other conduit prescribed by regulations made
              under section 103 as a key conduit for the purposes of
              this section;

“key facility” means any of the following:

          (a) any electrical plant (including any energy storage
               system);

          (b) any facility for receiving, storing or pumping —

          (i) any fuel required in connection with the
              generation of electricity (including for the
              purpose of creating or maintaining any stocks

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
41  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    of fuel, whether or not pursuant to section 27),
    but not any gas as defined in section 2 of the
    Gas Act 2001;

    (ii) any coolant (including seawater) required in
         connection with the cooling of any electrical
         plant used in generating or transmitting
         electricity; or

    (iii) any waste (including emissions) produced in
          connection with the generation of electricity, or
          the production of fuel for use in connection
          with the generation of electricity;

    (c) any other facility prescribed by regulations made
        under section 103 as a key facility for the purposes of
        this section;

    “prescribed wharf or jetty” means a wharf or jetty prescribed by
       regulations made under section 103 for the purposes of this
       section;

    “usage equipment” means any equipment, apparatus or
       appliance connected with the use or operation of a key
       facility or a key conduit.

                          [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.: supplementary
provisions

 20B.—(1) An agreement under section 20A ceases to be binding on
the person and E upon —

       (a) the determination of the agreement upon the expiration of a
            period specified in the agreement;

       (b) the termination of the agreement pursuant to a term
            contained in the agreement, or any written law or rule of
            law; or

       (c) despite anything in the agreement, the person ceasing, after
            the agreement is entered into, to own the key facility or key
            conduit to which E’s key conduit is connected, or to own or
            occupy the premises at which E’s key conduit, usage

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     42

          equipment, equipment, apparatus, appliance or facility is
          installed.

 (2) Upon the agreement ceasing to be binding on the person and E, a
notice to remove any connection, or E’s key conduit, usage
equipment, equipment, apparatus, appliance or facility, covered by
the agreement, may be given to E by —

(a) where subsection (1)(a) or (b) applies, the person; or

(b) where subsection (1)(c) applies, the person who is the
     owner of the key facility or key conduit to which E’s key
     conduit is connected or the owner or occupier of the
     premises (as the case may be) following the change in the
     ownership or occupation.

 (3) The notice must give E at least the period prescribed by
regulations made under section 103 to effect the removal.

 (4) E may, during the period given in the notice to remove, apply to
the Authority —

(a) where E is of the view that the period given to it (including
     where the period is the prescribed period mentioned in
     subsection (3)) is insufficient for it to effect the removal —
     for an extension of the period; or

(b) for another direction under section 20A(1).

 (5) Where E has made an application under subsection (4), E need
not comply with the notice to remove pending the Authority’s
decision on the application.

 (6) Where the Authority refuses to grant the application under
subsection (4), then, unless the person cancels the notice, E must
comply with the notice to remove before the end of the latest of the
following periods:

(a) the period in the notice to remove;

(b) for an application under subsection (4)(b), the period
     prescribed by regulations made under section 103 after the
     date of the Authority’s refusal to grant the direction
     requested;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
43  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) the period specified (if any) in the notice of the Authority’s
        refusal.

 (7) Despite subsection (6), E need not comply with the notice to
remove if E appeals under section 98 against a decision of the
Authority mentioned in that subsection, for so long as the appeal is
pending.

 (8) Where the decision on appeal confirms the decision of the
Authority, E must comply with the notice to remove before the end of
the later of the following periods:

    (a) for an application under subsection (4)(b), the period
         prescribed by regulations made under section 103 after the
         date of the decision on appeal;

    (b) the period specified (if any) in the decision on appeal.

 (9) Where, pursuant to section 20A, E has at any premises installed
any key conduit, usage equipment, equipment, apparatus, appliance
or facility, each of these —

    (a) continues to remain the property of E and is deemed not to
         be a fixture, and does not vest in the owner of the premises;
         and

    (b) is not to be subject to distress or be liable to be taken under
         or pursuant to an enforcement order of any court or any
         proceedings in bankruptcy against the person in whose
         possession it is.

 (10) In this section, “key conduit”, “key facility” and “usage
equipment” have the meanings given by section 20A(9).

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Non-contestable consumers

 21.—(1) A market support services licensee must provide market
support services to a non-contestable consumer in accordance with
this Act and its licence, and on terms and conditions approved by the
Authority.

 (2) A market support services licensee must not discontinue the
provision of market support services to any non-contestable
consumer except in accordance with its licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     44

 (3) Nothing in this section is to be taken as requiring a market
support services licensee to procure a supply of electricity to the
premises of any non-contestable consumer if —

(a) it is prevented from doing so by circumstances not within
     its control;

(b) circumstances exist by reason of which its doing so would
     or might involve the market support services licensee or
     any other electricity licensee being in breach of this Act,
     and the market support services licensee or other electricity
     licensee has taken all reasonable steps to prevent the
     circumstances from occurring and to prevent them from
     having that effect; or

          (c) any building on the premises has been erected in
              contravention of any written law or is in a ruinous or
              dangerous condition.

Tariffs set by market support services licensee for
non‑contestable consumers

 22.—(1) Subject to this section, the prices to be charged by a
market support services licensee and to be paid by non-contestable
consumers for the supply of electricity must be in accordance with
such tariffs as may be set from time to time by the market support
services licensee in accordance with the conditions of its electricity
licence and with the approval of the Authority.

 (2) A tariff set by a market support services licensee under
subsection (1) must be published in such manner as will secure
adequate publicity for it.

 (3) In setting tariffs under subsection (1), a market support services
licensee must neither show undue preference as between consumers
similarly situated nor exercise undue discrimination as between
persons similarly situated, having regard to the place and time of
supply and the quantity of electricity supplied.

Power to require security

 23.—(1) Subject to this section, where any person requires a supply
of electricity, a market support services licensee or transmission

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
45                   Electricity Act 2001                      2020 Ed.

licensee may require the person, or any retail electricity licensee
acting on behalf of a consumer, to give it reasonable security for the
payment to it of all money which may become due to it in respect
of —

    (a) the supply of electricity; or

    (b) the provision of all or any main or electrical plant,

as the case may be.

 (2) Where any person fails to give the security required under
subsection (1), the market support services licensee or the
transmission licensee may, if it thinks fit, refuse to provide the
supply of electricity or to provide or procure the provision of all or
any main or electrical plant (as the case may be) for so long as the
failure continues.

 (3) Where any person has not given the security under
subsection (1), or the security given by that person has become
invalid or insufficient —

    (a) the market support services licensee or the transmission
         licensee may by notice require that person, within 7 days
         after the service of the notice, to give it reasonable security
         for the payment of all money which may become due to the
         market support services licensee or the transmission
         licensee in respect of the supply of electricity; and

    (b) if that person fails to give such security, the market support
         services licensee or the transmission licensee may if it
         thinks fit discontinue the supply of electricity for so long as
         the failure continues.

Recovery of charges

 24.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if a market support services
licensee has good cause to direct a transmission licensee to
disconnect a non-contestable consumer from a transmission system
of the transmission licensee, including the failure of the consumer to
pay an account, the market support services licensee may issue a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     46

direction to the transmission licensee to disconnect the consumer
from the transmission system.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) A market support services licensee must not direct a
transmission licensee to disconnect the supply of electricity to any
residential premises by reason of failure by the consumer to pay an
account for that supply if the failure occurs through lack of sufficient
income of the consumer and of any other person normally resident on
the premises supplied until —

(a) the market support services licensee has offered to advise
     the consumer about optional methods of arranging
     payment of the account; and

(b) the consumer —

          (i) refuses or fails to accept that offer of advice within
              the period (being not less than 7 days) specified by
              the market support services licensee in each case; or

          (ii) accepts the offer of advice, but refuses or fails to take
               any reasonable action to pay the account within the
               period (being not less than 7 days) specified by the
               market support services licensee.

 (3) A transmission licensee who receives a direction from a market
support services licensee under subsection (1) must comply with that
direction as soon as possible.

 (4) Subject to this section, if a contestable consumer has not, on the
due date, paid all charges due from the contestable consumer to a
transmission licensee, the licensee may —

(a) in accordance with its licence and the market rules,
     disconnect that consumer from the transmission system
     of the transmission licensee to which the charges relate;

(b) discontinue the supply of electricity to the premises, or any
     other premises occupied by the consumer by any other
     means that the licensee thinks fit; and

          (c) recover any expenses incurred in so doing from the
              consumer.

                                                                                                          [42/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
47  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) Where a transmission licensee has disconnected the supply of
electricity to any premises in consequence of any default on the part
of a consumer, the licensee must, subject to the market rules,
reconnect the supply of electricity to the consumer within a
reasonable time if the consumer in default has —

    (a) made good the default;

    (b) paid the reasonable expenses of disconnecting and
         re‑connecting the supply; and

    (c) given such security as the transmission licensee may
        reasonably require.

 (6) Where a market support services licensee receives any payment
from a consumer and the consumer has not, in making the payment,
indicated to the market support services licensee the charges in
respect of which the payment is to be made, the licensee may
apportion the payment received to pay such charges in such
proportion and manner as may be prescribed.

Additional terms of supply of electricity

 25.—(1) Where any person requires a supply of electricity, a market
support services licensee or a transmission licensee may require (or
may cause a retail electricity licensee to require) that person to accept
in respect of the supply —

       (a) any condition requiring the person to provide sufficient
            premises and to construct such rooms, buildings or
            structures as may be considered necessary by the
            licensee to accommodate and house the electrical plant
            required for the purposes of the supply;

       (b) any condition giving the licensee the right to use the
            premises, rooms, buildings or structures provided or
            constructed under paragraph (a) for the purposes of the
            supply; and

       (c) any restriction which must be imposed for the purpose of
            enabling the licensee to comply with this Act and its
            licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     48

 (2) If a retail electricity licensee is required to secure the provision
or acceptance of any one or more of the conditions or restrictions
referred to in subsection (1), the retail electricity licensee must do all
things necessary to secure the provision or acceptance of such
conditions or restrictions as may be required in each particular case.

Determination of disputes by Authority

 26.—(1) Any dispute between a consumer and a market support
services licensee as to whether supply of electricity should be
provided to that consumer —

       (a) may be referred to the Authority by either party; and

       (b) on such a reference, is to be determined by the Authority,
            whose decision is final and conclusive between the parties.

 (2) Notwithstanding that a dispute between a consumer and a
market support services licensee has been referred to the Authority,
the licensee must, subject to sections 21(3) and 41(13), supply
electricity to the consumer until the dispute is determined by the
Authority.

Fuel stocks

 27.—(1) In respect of any generating station, the Authority may
give a direction requiring the electricity licensee who operates it —

       (a) to make such arrangements with respect to stocks of fuel
            held at or near that generating station for the purposes of its
            operation as will —

               (i) enable those stocks to be brought within a specified
                   time to, and thereafter maintained at, a specified
                   level; and

              (ii) ensure that they do not fall below that level, except as
                   may be permitted by the terms of the direction or by a
                   direction under subsection (2); and

       (b) to create such stocks and make such arrangements with
            respect to them,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
49  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

and the amount of any stocks may be specified by reference to the
period for which it would enable the generating station to be
maintained in operation.

 (2) In respect of any generating station, the Authority may, in the
event of an emergency, give a direction —

    (a) authorising or requiring the electricity licensee who
         operates it to make such use as may be specified of any
         stocks held at or near that generating station; and

    (b) requiring that electricity licensee to operate, or not to
         operate, that generating station for specified periods, at
         specified levels of capacity or use specified fuels.

 (3) In this section, “specified” means specified by or under the
direction of the Authority and such direction may —

    (a) specify the cases and circumstances in which any stocks
         are to be treated as held at or near any generating station;

    (b) specify the extent to which the direction may be treated as
         complied with;

    (c) specify the manner in which any period mentioned in
        subsection (1) or (2) is to be determined; and

    (d) require anything falling to be specified under the direction
         to be specified by such person and by reference to such
         matters as may be specified.

 (4) A direction under subsection (1) or (2) which confers on any
person the function of specifying anything falling to be specified
under the direction may require that person to exercise that function
in the manner specified by the direction.

                        PART 4
    SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDER

                                                             [18/2006]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     50

Special administration order

 28.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made in accordance with section 29 in relation to an electricity
licensee directing that, during the period for which the order is in
force, all or any of the affairs, business and property of that electricity
licensee is to be managed directly or indirectly by the Authority —

(a) for securing one or more of the purposes of such an order
     set out in subsection (2); and

      (b) in a manner which protects the respective interests of the
           shareholders and creditors of that electricity licensee.

                                                                                                         [42/2018]

(2) The purposes referred to in subsection (1)(a) are —

(a) the security and reliability of the supply of electricity to the
     public;

(b) the survival of the electricity licensee, or the whole or part
     of its business for which it is authorised by its licence to
     carry on, as a going concern;

          (c) the transfer to another company, or (as respects different
              parts of the area to which the electricity licensee’s licence
              relates, or different parts of its business or undertaking) to
              2 or more different companies, as a going concern, of such
              of the electricity licensee’s undertakings as it is necessary
              to transfer in order to ensure that the functions and duties
              which have been vested in the electricity licensee by virtue
              of its licence may be properly carried out; or

(d) the carrying out of the functions and duties which have
     been vested in the electricity licensee pending the making
     of the transfer and the vesting of those functions and duties
     in other company or companies.

(3) The Minister may make regulations —

(a) for giving effect to this section and section 29, including
     regulations governing the transfer of the electricity
     licensee’s business or undertaking referred to in
     subsection (2)(c); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
51  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) where a special administration order is made, for applying,
         omitting or modifying the provisions of Parts 7 and 9 of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                                                     [40/2018]

                                                                        [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Power to make special administration order, etc.

 29.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the Authority,
the Minister is satisfied in relation to any electricity licensee that any
one or more of the grounds specified in subsection (2) are satisfied in
relation to that electricity licensee, the Minister may make any one or
more of the following orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to that electricity
            licensee;

       (b) an order requiring the electricity licensee immediately to
            take any action or to do or not to do any act or thing in
            relation to that part of its business or undertaking to which
            its electricity licence relates as the Minister may consider
            necessary;

       (c) an order appointing a person to advise the electricity
            licensee in the proper conduct of that part of its business or
            undertaking to which its electricity licence relates.

 (2) The grounds referred to in subsection (1) are —

       (a) the electricity licensee is or is likely to be unable to pay its
            debts;

       (b) the occurrence of a public emergency;

       (c) the Minister considers it in the interest of the security and
            reliability of supply of electricity to the public; or

       (d) the Minister considers it in the public interest.

 (3) Notice of any application under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Authority to such persons and in such manner as
may be determined by the Authority.

 (4) Any order made by the Minister under subsection (1) must be
published in such manner as will secure adequate publicity.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     52

(5) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, an electricity licensee is unable
to pay its debts if —

(a) where the electricity licensee is a company incorporated
     under the Companies Act 1967 — it is deemed to be unable
     to pay its debts under section 125(2) of the Insolvency,
     Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018; or

(b) where the electricity licensee is a variable capital company
     incorporated under the VCC Act — it is deemed to be
     unable to pay its debts under —

          (i) the repealed section 254(2) of the Companies Act
              1967 as applied by section 130 of the VCC Act as in
              force before the operative date; or

            (ii) section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
                  Dissolution Act 2018, as applied by section 130 of
                  the VCC Act as in force on the operative date.

                                                                                   [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

(7) Despite any written law —

(a) an electricity licensee must not be wound up voluntarily
     without the consent of the Authority;

(b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to an electricity licensee without the consent of the
     Authority;

          (c) no step may be taken by any person to enforce any security
              over an electricity licensee’s property, except where that
              person has served on the Authority 14 days’ notice of that
              person’s intention to take that step;

(d) no step may be taken by any person to enforce a judgment
     or order of court obtained against an electricity licensee,
     except where that person has served on the Authority
     14 days’ notice of that person’s intention to take that step;
     and

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
53  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

      (e) no application under section 210 of the
           Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
           Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by
           any person in relation to an electricity licensee, unless that
           person has served 14 days’ written notice of that person’s
           intention to make the application on the Authority.

                                                                                             [40/2018; 42/2018]

(8) The Authority must be a party to —

      (a) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
           Dissolution Act 2018 or Part 11 of the VCC Act relating to
           the winding up of the affairs of an electricity licensee; or

                                                                                   [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

      (b) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
           section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
           Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
           relation to an electricity licensee.

                                                                                                         [40/2018]

(9) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “operative date” means the date of commencement of section 48
       of the Variable Capital Companies (Miscellaneous
       Amendments) Act 2019;

    “VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the VCC Act;

    “VCC Act” means the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                          [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others

 30.—(1) Where a special administration order has been made under
section 29(1)(a), the Authority may, at any time, whether or not the
order is still in force, fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by
the electricity licensee to the Authority.

 (2) The Authority may at any time (whether or not the appointment
of the person has terminated) fix the remuneration and expenses to be
paid by an electricity licensee to any person appointed by the Minister
under section 29(1)(c) to advise the electricity licensee in the proper
conduct of the business or undertaking to which its electricity licence
relates.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     54

                             PART 4A

CONTROL OF ELECTRICITY LICENSEES AND ENTITIES
     WITH INTERESTS IN TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS

Interpretation of this Part

30A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires ––

“arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
   arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
   express or implied;

“associate” has the meaning given to that expression in
   regulations made under section 30C;

“business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Business Trusts Act 2004;

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“designated business trust” means a business trust that is
   established wholly or partly in respect of a transmission
   system (or any part thereof) and which has been declared by
   the Minister to be a designated business trust for the purposes
   of section 30B;

“designated electricity licensee” means any of the following:

          (a) a transmission licensee;

          (b) a transmission agent licensee;

          (c) any other electricity licensee declared by the Minister
              to be a designated electricity licensee for the purposes
              of this Part;

“designated entity” means an entity, not being an electricity
   licensee —

          (a) that owns a transmission system (or any part of a
               transmission system); or

          (b) which the Authority is satisfied —

          (i) will engage in (but has not yet commenced
              engaging in); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
55  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (ii) is engaging in,

    (b) an activity mentioned in section 6(1) that is critical to
         Singapore’s energy security and reliability,

       and is declared by the Minister to be a designated entity for
       the purposes of this Part;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “entity” includes a corporation and a limited liability
       partnership;

    “equity interest” has the meaning given to that expression in
       regulations made under section 30C;

    “limited liability partnership” means a limited liability
       partnership formed under section 4(1) of the Limited
       Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “trustee-manager” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Business Trusts Act 2004.

                                                                                           [18/2006; 42/2018]

Control of acquisition of equity interest in designated
electricity licensee, etc.

 30B.—(1) A designated electricity licensee, a designated entity or
the trustee-manager of a designated business trust must give notice in
writing to the Authority if any person acquires equity interest in the
licensee, the entity or the business trust, respectively, whether
through a series of transactions over a period of time or otherwise,
that would result in that person holding 5% or more but less than 12%
of the total equity interest in the licensee, the entity or the business
trust, respectively.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (2) The notice under subsection (1) must be given within 5 days
after the designated electricity licensee, the designated entity or the
trustee‑manager of the designated business trust (as the case may be)
becomes aware of the acquisition mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (3) No person may, whether through a series of transactions over a
period of time or otherwise, become a 12% controller, a 25%
controller, a 30% controller, a 50% controller, a 75% controller or an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     56

indirect controller of a designated electricity licensee, a designated
entity or a designated business trust without obtaining the prior
written approval of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3A) No person may, whether through a series of transactions over a
period of time or otherwise, cease to become a 50% controller or a
75% controller of a designated electricity licensee, a designated entity
or a designated business trust without obtaining the prior written
approval of the Authority.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) No person may acquire as a going concern —

(a) the business, or any part of the business, of a designated
     electricity licensee conducted pursuant to its licence;

(b) the business, or any part of the business, of a designated
     entity which —

          (i) for a designated entity within paragraph (a) of the
              definition of “designated entity” in section 30A —
              relates to its transmission system or any part thereof;
              and

                (ii) for a designated entity within paragraph (b) of the
                     definition of “designated entity” in section 30A —
                     relates to the activity or any part thereof by reason of
                     which it is a designated entity; or

                                                                              [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          (c) the business, or any part of the business, of a designated
              business trust relating to a transmission system or any part
              of a transmission system in respect of which, wholly or in
              part, the business trust is established,

unless the person, and the licensee, the entity or the trustee‑manager
of the business trust (as the case may be) obtain the prior written
approval of the Authority.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (5) The Authority may approve an application of a person under
subsection (3) if the Authority is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
57  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) the person, and every associate of the person known to the
         Authority, is a fit and proper person;

                                                                        [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    (b) having regard to the likely influence of the person and
         every associate of the person known to the Authority, the
         designated electricity licensee, the designated entity or the
         trustee-manager of the designated business trust (as the
         case may be) will continue to conduct its business
         prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act; and

                                                                        [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                             [18/2006]

 (5A) The Authority may approve an application of a person under
subsection (3A) if the Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) the designated electricity licensee, the designated entity or
         the trustee-manager of the designated business trust (as the
         case may be) will continue to conduct its business
         prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act,
         despite the person ceasing to be a 50% controller or a 75%
         controller; and

       (b) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (6) The Authority may approve an application under subsection (4)
if the Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) the person acquiring the business is a fit and proper person;

    (b) the acquisition will not affect the security and reliability of
         the supply of electricity to the public; and

    (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                             [18/2006]

 (7) Any approval by the Authority under this section may be
granted subject to such conditions as the Authority may determine,
including but not limited to any condition —

    (a) restricting the disposal or further acquisition of equity
         interests or voting power in the designated electricity
         licensee, designated entity or designated business trust; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     58

       (b) restricting the exercise of voting power in the designated
            electricity licensee, designated entity or designated
            business trust.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (8) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (9) Any condition imposed by the Authority under this section has
effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or
other constitution of the licensee, the entity or the business trust.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (10) Any approval granted by the Authority under this section is
without prejudice to the operation of Part 7.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (11) In this section —

“12% controller” means a person, not being a 25% controller,
   who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) holds 12% or more of the total equity interest in; or

          (b) is in a position to control 12% or more of the voting
               power in,

   the licensee, the entity or the business trust;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

“25% controller” means a person, not being a 30% controller,
   who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) holds 25% or more of the total equity interest in; or

          (b) is in a position to control 25% or more of the voting
               power in,

   the licensee, the entity or the business trust;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

“30% controller” means a person, not being a 50% controller,
   who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

          (a) holds 30% or more of the total equity interest in; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
59  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) is in a position to control 30% or more of the voting
         power in,

       the licensee, the entity or the business trust;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “50% controller” means a person, not being a 75% controller,
       who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

    (a) holds 50% or more of the total equity interest in; or

    (b) is in a position to control 50% or more of the voting
         power in,

       the licensee, the entity or the business trust;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “75% controller” means a person who, alone or together with the
       person’s associates —

    (a) holds 75% or more of the total equity interest in; or

    (b) is in a position to control 75% or more of the voting
         power in,

       the licensee, the entity or the business trust;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “indirect controller” means any person, whether acting alone or
       together with any other person, and with or without holding
       equity interest or controlling voting power in the licensee, the
       entity or the business trust, as the case may be —

    (a) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
         wishes the directors of the licensee, the directors or
         other officers of the entity, or the trustee-manager of
         the business trust are accustomed or under an
         obligation, whether formal or informal, to act; or

    (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
         licensee, the entity or the business trust,

    but does not include —

    (c) in the case of the licensee, a person who is the chief
        executive officer, a director or the chairperson of the
        board of directors of the licensee whose appointment

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     60

          as such has been approved by the Authority under
          section 30G; or

          (d) a person in accordance with whose directions,
               instructions or wishes the directors of the licensee,
               the directors or other officers of the entity or the
               trustee‑manager of the business trust are accustomed
               to act by reason only that they act on advice given by
               the person in the person’s professional capacity.

                                                                                     [18/2006; 42/2018]

Regulations for carrying out section 30B

 30C.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make such regulations under section 103 as are necessary or
expedient for carrying out the purposes of section 30B.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may
prescribe —

       (a) the meaning of equity interest and the circumstances under
            which a person would be considered to hold a percentage
            of the total equity interest in a designated electricity
            licensee, a designated entity or a designated business trust;

       (b) the circumstances under which a person would be
            considered to be in a position to control a percentage of
            the voting power in a designated electricity licensee, a
            designated entity or a designated business trust;

       (c) the circumstances under which a person would be
            considered to have acquired as a going concern a
            business referred to in section 30B(4);

       (d) the circumstances under which a person would be
            considered to be an associate for the purposes of
            sections 30B, 30D and 30F; and

       (e) the manner in which any notice or application under
            section 30B must be given or made, and the person or
            persons who are required to give the notice or make the
            application.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
61               Electricity Act 2001                        2020 Ed.

Power to exempt

30CA. The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, exempt —

    (a) any person or class of persons; or

    (b) any class or description of equity interests,

from section 30B(1), (3), (3A) or (4), subject to such conditions as
may be specified in the order.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Power to issue directions

 30D.—(1) The Authority may issue any direction to a person under
subsection (2), (2A) or (3) if the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the person has contravened section 30B(3), (3A) or (4);

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
            approval under section 30B(3) or who has been exempted
            from section 30B(3) under section 30CA —

               (i) the person or any associate of the person is not or
                   ceases to be a fit and proper person;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the person or
                   any associate of the person —

                    (A) the designated electricity licensee or
                          designated entity (as the case may be) is not,
                          or is no longer, likely to conduct its business
                          prudently or to comply with the provisions of
                          this Act; or

                     (B) the trustee-manager of the designated business
                          trust is not, or is no longer, likely to conduct the
                          business of the business trust prudently or to
                          comply with the provisions of this Act; or

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

             (iii) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow
                   the person to continue to be a 12% controller, a 25%
                   controller, a 30% controller, a 50% controller, a 75%

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     62

             controller or an indirect controller, as the case may
             be;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

(ba) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
      approval under section 30B(3A) or who has been
      exempted from section 30B(3A) under section 30CA,
      and ceases to be a 50% controller or a 75% controller of the
      designated electricity licensee, designated entity or trustee-
      manager of the designated business trust, as the case may
      be —

          (i) the designated electricity licensee or designated
              entity (as the case may be) is not conducting, or is
              no longer likely to conduct, its business prudently or
              to comply with the provisions of this Act because of
              the cessation; or

                (ii) the trustee-manager of the designated business trust
                     is not conducting, or is no longer likely to conduct,
                     the business of the business trust prudently or to
                     comply with the provisions of this Act because of the
                     cessation;

                                                                              [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          (c) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
              approval under section 30B(4) or who has been exempted
              from section 30B(4) under section 30CA, and who has
              acquired as a going concern a business mentioned in
              section 30B(4) —

          (i) the person is not or ceases to be a fit and proper
              person; or

          (ii) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow
               the person to continue to own or manage that
               business;

(d) the person has furnished false or misleading information or
     documents in connection with an application under
     section 30B;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
63  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (e) the Authority would not have granted its approval under
        section 30B had it been aware, at that time, of
        circumstances relevant to the person’s application for
        such approval; or

        (f) any condition imposed on the person under section 30B or
            30CA has not been complied with.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) Where the person is a 12% controller, a 25% controller, a 30%
controller, a 50% controller, a 75% controller or an indirect controller
of a designated electricity licensee, designated entity or designated
business trust, the Authority may, by written notice —

    (a) direct the person to take such steps as are necessary, within
         such period as may be specified by the Authority, to ensure
         that the person ceases to be a 12% controller, a 25%
         controller, a 30% controller, a 50% controller, a 75%
         controller or an indirect controller of the licensee, entity or
         business trust;

                                                                        [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    (b) direct the person or any of the person’s associates to
         transfer or dispose of all or any of the equity interests in the
         licensee, entity or business trust held by the person or the
         person’s associate (called in this section and section 30E
         the specified equity interests) within such time and subject
         to such conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

    (c) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified equity
        interests; or

       (d) make any other direction that the Authority considers
            appropriate.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2A) Where the person has ceased to be a 50% controller or a 75%
controller of a designated electricity licensee, designated entity or
designated business trust (as the case may be), the Authority may, by
written notice —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     64

(a) direct the person to take any steps that are necessary, within
     the period specified by the Minister, to resume being a 50%
     controller or a 75% controller, as the case may be;

(b) direct any transferee to whom the person had transferred its
     equity interests so as to cease to be a 50% controller or a
     75% controller (called in this section and section 30E the
     relevant equity interests) to take any steps that are
     necessary, within the period specified by the Minister, to
     transfer all or any of those equity interests back to the
     person;

          (c) restrict the transfer or disposal of the relevant equity
              interests; or

       (d) make any other direction that the Minister considers
            appropriate.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3) Where a person has acquired as a going concern a business
referred to in section 30B(4), the Authority may —

(a) direct the person to transfer or dispose of all or any part of
     the business within such time and subject to such
     conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

(b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the business or any part
     of the business; or

       (c) make any other direction that the Authority considers
            appropriate.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (4) Before issuing any direction to a person under subsection (2),
(2A) or (3), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides that it is
not practicable or desirable to do so, give to the person written notice
of the Authority’s intention to issue the direction and specify a date by
which the person may make written representations with regard to the
proposed direction.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
65  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) Upon receipt of any written representation referred to in
subsection (4), the Authority must consider it for the purpose of
determining whether to issue the direction.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (6) Any person to whom a direction is issued under this section
must comply with the direction.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (7) The Authority may vary or revoke any direction issued under
this section.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

Effect of directions

 30E.—(1) Any direction issued to a person under section 30D takes
effect despite the provisions of any other written law or anything
contained in the memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or
other constitution of the designated electricity licensee, the
designated entity or the designated business trust, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (2) Where any direction is issued under section 30D(2)(b) or (c) or
(2A)(b) or (c), despite the provisions of any other written law or
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association,
trust deed or other constitution, of the licensee, the entity or the
business trust, as the case may be —

       (a) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of the specified
            equity interests or relevant equity interests unless the
            Authority expressly permits such rights to be exercised;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) no equity interest of the licensee, the entity or the business
            trust may be issued or offered (whether by way of rights,
            bonus or otherwise) in respect of the specified equity
            interests or relevant equity interests unless the Authority
            expressly permits such issue or offer; and

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (c) except in a winding up of the licensee, the entity or the
            business trust, payments must not be made by the licensee,
            the entity or the trustee‑manager of the business trust of
            any amount (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     66

          respect of the specified equity interests or relevant equity
          interests unless the Authority expressly authorises such
          payment,

until the transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the
direction or until the direction is revoked, as the case may be.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Offences, penalties and defences

 30F.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 30B or 30D(6)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (2) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 30B(3) or (3A), it is a defence for the person
to prove that —

       (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
            section 30B(3) or (3A); and

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) the person has, within 14 days of becoming aware that the
            person had contravened section 30B(3) or (3A), notified
            the Authority of the contravention and, within such time as
            may be determined by the Authority, taken such actions in
            relation to the person’s holding of equity interest or control
            of voting power in the licensee, the entity or the business
            trust as the Authority may direct.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
67  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 30B(3), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

    (a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
         holding of equity interest or in the voting power controlled
         by any of the person’s associates;

    (b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
         or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
         associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
         disposal of equity interest in, or under which they act
         together in exercising their voting power in relation to, the
         licensee, the entity or the business trust; and

       (c) the person has, within 14 days of the date of the
            contravention, notified the Authority of the contravention
            and, within such time as may be determined by the
            Authority, taken such actions in relation to the person’s
            holding of equity interest or control of voting power in the
            licensee, the entity or the business trust as the Authority
            may direct.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (3A) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 30B(3A), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

    (a) the contravention occurred as a result of a decrease in the
         holding of equity interest or in the voting power controlled
         by any of the person’s associates;

    (b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
         or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
         associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
         disposal of equity interest in, or under which they act
         together in exercising their voting power in relation to, the
         licensee, the entity or the business trust; and

    (c) the person has, within 14 days of the date of the
        contravention, notified the Authority of the contravention
        and, within such time as may be determined by the
        Authority, taken such actions in relation to the person’s

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     68

            holding of equity interest or control of voting power in the
            licensee, the entity or the business trust as the Authority
            may direct.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) Except as provided in subsections (2), (3) and (3A), it is not a
defence for a person charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 30B(1), (3) or (3A) to prove that the person
did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene section 30B(1), (3)
or (3A).

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of
designated electricity licensee

 30G.—(1) No designated electricity licensee may appoint a person
as its chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its
board of directors unless it has obtained the prior written approval of
the Authority.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (2) Where a person has been appointed by a designated electricity
licensee as its chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of
its board of directors in contravention of subsection (1), the Authority
may issue a direction to the licensee to remove the person as its chief
executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
directors, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (3) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or of the memorandum or articles of association, or other
constitution, of the designated electricity licensee.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (4) In this section —

      “chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated electricity
         licensee, means any person, by whatever name described,
         who is —

              (a) in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
                   arrangement with, the designated electricity licensee;
                   and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
69  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) principally responsible for the management and
         conduct of any type of business of the designated
         electricity licensee,

    and includes any person for the time being performing all or
    any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967.

                                                             [18/2006]

                                    PART 5

     MATTERS RELATING TO ELECTRICITY LICENSEES

Works by electricity licensee

 31.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a generation licensee,
market support services licensee or transmission licensee may, for
any purpose connected with the carrying on of the activities
authorised by or required under its electricity licence —

       (a) install under, over, in, on, along or across any land,
            premises, street or bridge and from time to time inspect,
            maintain, adjust, repair, alter, replace or remove —

               (i) any electric line or electrical plant;

              (ii) any structure for housing or covering any such line or
                   plant; and

             (iii) any meter, switch and any other suitable and proper
                   apparatus, for the purpose of leading off service lines
                   and other distributing conductors or of examining,
                   testing, measuring, directing or controlling the
                   supply of electricity or of testing the conditions of
                   the mains and other portions of the works; and

       (b) execute any work requisite for or incidental to the purposes
            of any work falling within paragraph (a), including for
            those purposes —

               (i) excavating any land, street or drain;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     70

          (ii) tunnelling or boring under any land, street, sewer or
               drain;

          (iii) removing or using all earth and materials in or under
                any land, street, sewer or drain;

          (iv) erecting, placing or installing equipment, apparatus
               and other electrical plant in or under any land,
               building, street or bridge; and

              (v) erecting, placing or installing poles on any land or
                   street.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (2) A licensee referred to in subsection (1) must obtain the written
approval of the Authority —

(a) before issuing a notice under subsection (7); or

(b) in the case of an emergency specified in subsection (7),
     before carrying out any work,

if the work to be carried out under this section is in relation to any
matter specified in subsection (1)(a)(i), (ii) or (iii) which is owned or
operated by another electricity licensee.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (3) The right of a licensee to carry out any work in accordance with
this section has effect despite any agreement which prohibits the
carrying out of the work.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (4) All such works, including the upper surface or covering thereof,
must be constructed of such materials and maintained by the licensee
referred to in subsection (1) in such manner as not to be a source of
danger, whether by reason of inequality of surface or otherwise; and
when such licensee lays any electric line that is liable to touch any
main, pipe, line or other service, the conducting portion of the electric
line must be effectually insulated.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (5) The licensee referred to in subsection (1) must pay
compensation to any person who suffers any damage or loss of
value to the person’s property as a result of any work performed by
the licensee under subsection (1) of such amount as may be agreed

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
71  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

between the licensee and the person, and such compensation may
include an annual payment for the use of any land or immovable
property for the licensee’s purpose.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (6) The licensee referred to in subsection (1) does not acquire any
right other than that of a user only in respect of any land or property
under, over, in, on, along or across which the licensee installs any
electric line or electrical plant or executes any work under this
section.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (7) Except in the case of an emergency arising from any fault in any
electric line or electrical plant, the licensee referred to in
subsection (1) must, before entering any land for the purpose
specified in subsection (1), give 14 days’ written notice to the owner
or occupier of the land, stating as fully and accurately as possible the
nature and extent of the work to be carried out.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), the owner or occupier of the land who
is given a notice under subsection (7) must comply with the notice
and do all things necessary to facilitate the carrying out of the work
specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (9) The owner or occupier of the land may, within 14 days of the
receipt of the notice referred to in subsection (7), lodge a written
objection with the Authority and the Authority must specify the date
by which an inquiry into such objection must be made.

 (10) If no objection is lodged within the period specified in
subsection (9), the licensee may enter on the land and do all or any of
the works specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (11) Where an objection lodged under subsection (9) is not
withdrawn before the date fixed for an inquiry into the matter
under that subsection, the Authority must hold an inquiry, giving each
party an opportunity to be heard.

 (12) Upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Authority may
authorise, either unconditionally or subject to such terms,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     72

conditions and stipulations as it thinks fit, the carrying out of any of
the works specified in the notice given under subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (13) The decision of the Authority under subsections (2) and (12) is
final.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (14) The licensee referred to in subsection (1) must do as little
damage as possible in the exercise of the powers conferred by
subsection (1) and must, as soon as practicable, make good any
damage done in the exercise of those powers.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (15) Where any dispute arises as to whether a licensee referred to in
subsection (1) has sufficiently made good any damage done in the
exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the dispute —

(a) may be referred to the Authority by either party; and

       (b) on such a reference, is to be determined by the Authority
            whose decision is final and conclusive between the parties.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (16) A licensee referred to in subsection (1) must exercise the
powers conferred by subsection (1) in such manner as will secure that
nothing which it installs or keeps installed under, over, in, on, along
or across any premises, street or bridge becomes a source of danger to
the public.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (17) A licensee referred to in subsection (1) is not, when exercising
the powers conferred by subsection (1), liable for or required to pay
any person any fee, charge or expense for the right to enter or use any
land or premises.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (18) A licensee referred to in subsection (1) must not, without the
written approval of a Government authority or statutory authority,
enter or use any land or premises belonging to the Government
authority or statutory authority for the purpose of exercising the
powers conferred by subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
73                         Electricity Act 2001              2020 Ed.

Power to fell trees, etc.

 32.—(1) Where, in the opinion of an electricity licensee, there is at
any time danger or suspected danger that any tree or vegetation near
the licensee’s installation or plant may obstruct or interfere with the
supply of electricity or cause damage to such installation or plant, the
licensee may cause the tree or vegetation to be felled or dealt with in
any other manner that will, in its opinion, avert the danger.

 (2) An electricity licensee is, in the exercise of its powers under
subsection (1), subject to the provisions of the National Parks Board
Act 1996 and the Parks and Trees Act 2005.

 (3) Where any tree or vegetation, which has been felled or dealt
with under subsection (1), was in existence before the electricity
licensee’s installation or plant was placed, erected or installed, the
licensee must, subject to subsections (4) and (5), pay to any person
adversely affected such sum as may be agreed between the licensee
and the person, or in the absence of agreement, such sum as may be
determined by the Authority.

 (4) No further compensation may be paid for the felling, lopping or
clearing of any tree or vegetation where the action is necessary for the
maintenance of an electricity licensee’s installation or plant and the
tree or vegetation has grown or has been allowed to grow since the
payment of compensation under subsection (3).

 (5) No compensation is payable by an electricity licensee under
subsection (3) in respect of any tree or vegetation within 20 metres of
the centre line of any road constructed or maintained by the
Government or by any public authority unless it is proved that the
tree or vegetation was in existence prior to the construction of the
road.

 (6) Where the owner or occupier of any land fells, lops or clears any
tree or vegetation adjacent to an electricity licensee’s installation or
plant, the owner or occupier must give the licensee 14 days’ written
notice of the intention of the owner or occupier to do so and must take
such reasonable precautions as the licensee may require for the
protection of such installation or plant.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     74

 (7) If any such owner or occupier fails to give notice under
subsection (6) or having given notice fails to take any such reasonable
precautions as the electricity licensee may have required, such owner
or occupier is liable to pay the licensee any cost and expense incurred
by the licensee for any damage caused to any such installation or
plant, subject to the Authority’s approval in the case of any dispute.

 (8) If any tree or vegetation is felled, lopped or cleared upon land
adjacent to an electricity licensee’s installation or plant, it is
presumed until the contrary is proved that the tree or vegetation
was felled, lopped or cleared by the owner or occupier of the land or
by the employees or agents of the owner or occupier acting as such.

Entry upon premises by electricity licensee for purposes of
exploration

 33.—(1) Subject to this section and without prejudice to any other
right of entry, a person authorised in writing by a transmission
licensee or market support services licensee may, at any reasonable
time, enter upon and survey any premises for the purpose of
ascertaining whether the premises would be suitable for use for any
purpose connected with the carrying on of the activities which the
licensee is authorised by its electricity licence to carry on.

 (2) A person authorised to enter upon any premises under this
section must not demand to do so as of right unless —

       (a) 7 days’ notice of the intended entry has been given to the
            occupier; and

       (b) if required to do so, the person has produced evidence of
            the person’s authority.

 (3) The power to survey premises conferred by this section includes
the power to search and bore for the purposes of ascertaining the
nature of the subsoil, but works may not be carried out on the
premises for this purpose unless —

       (a) notice of the proposed works is included in the notice given
            under subsection (2); and

       (b) where premises are held by any statutory authority which
            objects to the works on the ground that the carrying out of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
75  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    the works would be seriously detrimental to the carrying on
    of its undertaking, the Minister gives his or her approval.

 (4) Where any person exercises any power conferred by this
section, the licensee by whom the person was authorised must make
good any damage done to the premises.

 (5) An electricity licensee must not, without the written approval of
a Government authority or statutory authority, authorise any person to
enter or use any premises belonging to the Government authority or
statutory authority for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred
by subsection (1).

Entry during continuance of supply

 34. A person authorised by a transmission licensee or market
support services licensee to enter upon any premises may, at all
reasonable times, on the production of some duly authenticated
document showing the person’s authority, enter any premises to
which a supply of electricity is being given for any of the following
purposes:

       (a) inspecting any electric line or electrical plant belonging to
            the licensee;

       (b) ascertaining the register of any electricity meter;

       (c) removing, inspecting or re-installing any such meter or
            installing any substitute meter;

       (d) carrying out all other works necessary to maintain the
            supply of electricity.

Entry during discontinuance of supply

 35.—(1) Where —

       (a) a transmission licensee or market support services licensee
            is authorised by this Act or its electricity licence to
            disconnect or discontinue the supply of electricity to any
            premises;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     76

(b) a person occupying premises supplied with electricity by a
     retail electricity licensee or market support services
     licensee ceases to require such a supply; or

          (c) a person entering into occupation of any premises
              previously supplied with electricity by a retail electricity
              licensee or market support services licensee does not
              require such a supply,

any person authorised in writing by the transmission licensee or
market support services licensee may at all reasonable hours, on
production of some duly authenticated document showing the
person’s authority, enter the premises for the purposes of
disconnecting the supply or removing any electrical plant, electric
line or electricity meter, as the case may be.

 (2) Subject to section 39, the person so authorised by a transmission
licensee or market support services licensee must not enter any
dwelling house in actual occupation without 6 hours’ previous notice
to the occupier, unless the occupier has given the occupier’s consent
to the entry.

Entry for replacing, repairing or altering electric line or
electrical plant

 36.—(1) Any person authorised by an electricity licensee in writing
may, after 7 days’ notice to the occupier of any premises or to the
owner of any premises which are unoccupied, at all reasonable times,
on production of some duly authenticated document showing the
person’s authority, enter the premises for the purpose of —

       (a) placing a new electric line or electrical plant in the place of
            or in addition to any existing line or plant which has
            already been lawfully placed and which belongs to that
            licensee; or

       (b) maintaining, inspecting, repairing, removing or altering
            any such existing line or plant.

 (2) In the case of an emergency arising from any fault in any
electric line or electrical plant, entry may be made under
subsection (1) without the notice required by that subsection, but

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
77  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

the notice must then be given as soon as possible after the occurrence
of the emergency.

Relocation of installation

 37.—(1) Where an installation has been laid under or upon any land
by an electricity licensee and the owner or occupier of the land desires
to use the land in a manner which renders it necessary or convenient
to move such installation, the owner or occupier may request the
licensee to move the installation accordingly.

 (2) An electricity licensee may, at the request of the owner or
occupier of any premises under or upon which any installation of the
licensee is situated, relocate the installation if the licensee is satisfied
that such relocation is reasonable and the owner or occupier complies
with such terms and conditions as the licensee may impose, including
terms and conditions relating to the payment by the owner or occupier
of all costs and expenses necessary for the relocation.

 (3) Where an installation has been laid under or upon any land by an
electricity licensee and the installation is no longer in use by the
occupier of the land or any other person for the purpose of the
transmission or supply of electricity, the licensee may at its own
volition, or at the reasonable request of the owner of the land, remove
the installation from the land at the expense of the electricity licensee.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, “owner” includes any person
having a leasehold interest in the land or premises with an unexpired
term of not less than 7 years.

Electrical plant not fixtures and not subject to distress

 38. Any electrical plant, electric line, electricity meter, appliance,
accessory, fitting and appurtenance owned or let for hire or lent to a
consumer by an electricity licensee and which has been affixed or
fastened to any part of the premises —

       (a) continues to remain the property of that licensee and is
            deemed not to be a fixture, and does not vest in the owner
            of the premises; and

       (b) is not to be subject to distress or be liable to be taken under
            or pursuant to an enforcement order of any court or any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     78

          proceedings in bankruptcy against the person in whose
          possession it is.

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Repurposing of installations

 38A.—(1) This section applies to a person who —

       (a) is an electricity licensee or is exempted under section 8;
            and

       (b) owns, or manages or controls, a relevant installation.

 (2) A person must not, without the prior approval of the Authority,
use or allow the use of the relevant installation or any part of the
relevant installation (including following any modification,
replacement or disposal of any part of the relevant installation)
other than as or as part of such relevant installation.

 (3) Regulations made under section 103 may exclude any of the
following from the application of this section:

       (a) any electricity licensee or person exempted under
            section 8;

       (b) any relevant installation or any part of any relevant
            installation;

       (c) any use of any relevant installation or part of any relevant
            installation (including following any modification,
            replacement or disposal of any part of the relevant
            installation), generally or in prescribed circumstances.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1
million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) In this section, “relevant installation” means any of the
following:

       (a) a generating station;

       (b) a generating unit;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
79  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) a transmission system;

    (d) an energy storage system (including where the system is
         not part of a generating station, generating unit or
         transmission system).

                                                                        [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Power to discontinue supply of electricity in emergency, etc.

 39.—(1) Where an electricity licensee is of the opinion that
immediate action is necessary on the occurrence of any emergency,
in the interest of public safety or in order to avoid undue interference
with the efficient supply of electricity to other consumers or for such
other reasons affecting public interest, the licensee —

       (a) may forthwith discontinue the supply of electricity to any
            person;

       (b) must immediately thereafter give written notice of the
            discontinuance to the person; and

       (c) not being a market support services licensee, must
            immediately inform the market support services licensee
            of the discontinuance.

 (2) An electricity licensee is not liable for any loss or damage
caused to any person by such discontinuance of the supply of
electricity to the person.

Emergency plans

 40.—(1) The Authority may require an electricity licensee to
prepare and file with the Authority such emergency plans in
accordance with, and as may be specified in, its licence and the
market rules.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, direct an
electricity licensee to implement an emergency plan prepared by that
licensee on one or more occasions and with such modifications as the
Minister may, from time to time, consider necessary.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.               Electricity Act 2001                        80

Contestable consumers

 41.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations prescribing the circumstances in which a consumer
becomes, or ceases to be, a contestable consumer (including upon the
grant of an application made by the consumer to be or to cease to be
such).

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) A market support services licensee must provide market support
services to a contestable consumer in accordance with this Act and its
licence, and on terms and conditions approved by the Authority.

 (3) A contestable consumer is to purchase electricity for
consumption on the consumer’s own premises in accordance with
any one of the following options:

(a) purchase electricity from a retail electricity licensee on
     mutually agreed terms and conditions;

(b) subject to subsection (4), purchase electricity directly from
     any wholesale electricity market at prevailing market
     prices;

          (c) purchase electricity indirectly from any wholesale
              electricity market through a market support services
              licensee at prevailing market prices.

 (4) A contestable consumer must not purchase electricity directly
from any wholesale electricity market unless the consumer is granted
a licence by the Authority to do so and is registered as a market
participant in accordance with the market rules.

 (5) A consumer has the option to, within a period of 30 days from
the date on which the consumer is classified under subsection (1) as a
contestable consumer (or such further period as the Authority may
determine) —

(a) commence purchasing electricity under a contract with a
     retail electricity licensee; or

(b) commence purchasing electricity directly from any
     wholesale electricity market.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
81  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (6) If a consumer commences purchasing electricity under
subsection (5)(a) or (b) and has an existing agreement under which
any person supplies and sells electricity to the consumer, that
agreement ceases to have effect from the date on which the consumer
commences purchasing electricity under the relevant option.

 (7) If a consumer does not commence purchasing electricity under
subsection (5)(a) or (b), the consumer is deemed to commence
purchasing electricity indirectly from any wholesale electricity
market through a market support services licensee at prevailing
market prices with effect from the date immediately after the expiry
of the period referred to in that subsection.

 (8) Where subsection (7) is applicable and the consumer has an
existing agreement under which any person supplies and sells
electricity to the consumer, that agreement ceases to have effect
from the date immediately after the expiry of the period referred to in
subsection (5).

 (9) Despite subsections (5) and (7), a contestable consumer may, at
any time after the expiry of the period referred to in subsection (5),
enter into an arrangement to purchase electricity for consumption on
the consumer’s own premises under any one of the options specified
under subsection (3).

(10) At such time when —

    (a) a contestable consumer does not, cannot or no longer
         wishes to purchase electricity from a retail electricity
         licensee or directly from any wholesale electricity market;
         or

    (b) a retail electricity licensee is unable or refuses to retail
         electricity to a contestable consumer for any reason,

a market support services licensee must (if the contestable consumer
remains as such under this section) provide the contestable consumer
access to any wholesale electricity market for the purpose of allowing
the consumer to purchase electricity indirectly from that market
through the licensee at prevailing market prices.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     82

 (11) Nothing in subsections (6) and (8) has the effect of
extinguishing any right or liability of any party under the existing
agreement referred to in those subsections where such right or
liability had accrued on the date the agreement ceased to have effect
under those subsections.

 (12) A market support services licensee must not discontinue the
provision of market support services to any contestable consumer
except in accordance with its licence.

 (13) Nothing in this section is to be taken as requiring a market
support services licensee to procure a supply of electricity to the
premises of any contestable consumer if —

(a) it is prevented from doing so by circumstances not within
     its control;

(b) circumstances exist by reason of which its doing so would
     or might involve the market support services licensee or
     any other electricity licensee being in breach of this Act,
     and the market support services licensee or other electricity
     licensee has taken all reasonable steps to prevent the
     circumstances from occurring and to prevent them from
     having that effect; or

          (c) any building on the premises has been erected in
              contravention of any written law or is in a ruinous or
              dangerous condition.

                                   PART 5A
                       ELECTRICITY RATIONING

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Meaning of electricity shortage
 41A. An electricity shortage situation is a situation where, owing to

any circumstances (including a shortage of any fuel required to
generate electricity) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
83  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) in the opinion of the Authority —

    (i) the amounts of electricity that can be generated in
        and imported into Singapore will likely not meet the
        needs of some consumers in Singapore; or

    (ii) if no measures are taken, the secure operation of a
         transmission system of a transmission licensee will
         be threatened; or

    (b) the amounts of electricity being generated in and imported
         into Singapore do not meet the needs of some consumers in
         Singapore.

                                                                        [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Directions for electricity rationing

 41B.—(1) Where there is an electricity shortage situation, the
Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, give to any one or
more persons such directions for the purpose in subsection (2) to do
any act in subsection (3) that the Authority considers necessary.

 (2) The purpose of the directions is to prevent the electricity
shortage situation from occurring or continuing, or to deal with or
alleviate the electricity shortage situation.

 (3) A direction may require any person to whom the direction is
given to do or not to do any thing in order to regulate the generation,
transmission, supply or use of electricity, including —

       (a) requiring a person to generate an amount of electricity
            specified in the direction, or not generate any electricity,
            for any period specified in the direction or on any specified
            day or at any specified time of any day in that period;

       (b) requiring a person to generate electricity using the type of
            fuel specified in the direction; and

       (c) requiring a person to supply to another person, or requiring
            a person to use, an amount of electricity specified in the
            direction, or not to supply or use any electricity, for any
            period specified in the direction or on any specified day or
            at any specified time of any day in that period.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     84

 (4) Directions under this section may be issued at any one or more
times during the electricity shortage situation, including to the same
person.

 (5) Where the same direction is to be given to a class of persons, the
Authority may, instead of issuing a direction to each person in the
class, issue a direction for the class of persons.

 (6) The Authority must publicise a direction under subsection (5) in
such manner as the Authority considers appropriate for bringing the
direction to the attention of all persons in the class.

 (7) A direction under this section remains in force until revoked by
the Authority, and such revocation does not prevent the issue of
another direction under this section to the same person or class of
persons, whether with the same requirements as or different
requirements from the direction revoked.

 (8) The Authority is not required to consult any person, or provide
any notice, before issuing any direction under this section.

 (9) A person (including an electricity licensee) who fails to comply
with a direction under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to one or both of the following:

(a) a fine not exceeding $50,000;

(b) imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years,

and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Enforcement of directions

 41C.—(1) Where a direction under section 41B requires a
reduction in or cessation of the use of electricity at any premises,
and the requirement is not complied with, the Authority —

       (a) may take such steps as are necessary to reduce or
            discontinue the supply of electricity to the premises,
            including by ordering a market support services licensee or
            transmission licensee to reduce or discontinue the supply

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
85  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    of electricity to the premises by any means specified in the
    order; and

    (b) must give the owner or occupier of the premises not less
         than 6 hours’ written notice of the reduction or
         discontinuance.

 (2) The steps in subsection (1) may include the disconnection of
any connection to the premises for the purpose of supplying
electricity to the premises, whether or not such connection is in use.

 (3) Where, for purposes of subsection (1)(a), the only way to reduce
or discontinue the supply of electricity to any premises would require
the Authority, or the market support services licensee or transmission
licensee, to enter those or any other premises or physically access any
equipment or apparatus at any premises, the Authority, market
support services licensee or transmission licensee may, through any
person authorised by the Authority, market support services licensee
or transmission licensee (as the case may be), enter the premises or
physically access the equipment or apparatus at any premises at all
reasonable times —

    (a) to carry out all works necessary to effect the reduction or
         discontinuance; and

    (b) in any event (for the person authorised by the market
         support services licensee or transmission licensee) to carry
         out the order under subsection (1)(a).

 (4) A person authorised by the Authority, market support services
licensee or transmission licensee under subsection (3) must, if
requested by any person occupying, or having control or management
of, the premises, produce —

    (a) some duly authenticated document showing the person’s
         authority; and

    (b) for a person authorised by the market support services
         licensee or transmission licensee, the order made by the
         Authority under subsection (1)(a).

 (5) A supply of electricity that has been reduced or discontinued
pursuant to subsection (1)(a) may be increased or restored —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     86

(a) only if the approval of the Authority for the increase or
     restoration is obtained in the manner and through any
     person required by the Authority; and

(b) upon the payment of the costs and expenses of such
     increase or restoration by the person seeking the
     Authority’s approval.

 (6) A person who does any act which the person knows or ought
reasonably to know obstructs, hinders or otherwise prevents, or is
likely to obstruct, hinder or otherwise prevent, any person authorised
by the Authority, market support services licensee or transmission
licensee (as the case may be) from exercising any power under
subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (7) Where a supply of electricity to any premises has been reduced
or discontinued pursuant to subsection (1)(a), a person who does any
act for the purpose of increasing or restoring the supply of electricity
to the premises without the Authority’s approval for the increase or
restoration under subsection (5), shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to one or both of the following:

(a) a fine not exceeding $10,000;

(b) imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months.

 (8) Where a supply of electricity to any premises has been reduced
or discontinued pursuant to subsection (1)(a), and the supply
increased or restored without the approval of the Authority, for so
long as the order remains in force, if the amount of electricity used at
the premises exceeds the amount permitted under the order, the
occupier of the premises shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to one or both of the following:

(a) a fine not exceeding $10,000;

(b) imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months,

and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
87  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

Protection from liability

 41D.—(1) The Authority is not liable for any loss or expense
suffered by any person in or as a result of complying with any
direction made under section 41B(1) or any order made under
section 41C(1)(a) by the Authority in good faith and with reasonable
care, or as a result of any reduction or discontinuance of any supply of
electricity to the person following from such direction or order.

 (2) A market support services licensee and a transmission licensee
are not liable for any loss or expense suffered by any person as a result
of the market support services licensee or transmission licensee (as
the case may be) complying in good faith and with reasonable care
with any order made by the Authority under section 41C(1)(a).

 (3) The Authority, a market support services licensee, a
transmission licensee and any person authorised by the Authority
or such licensee, are not liable for any loss or expense, or damage,
suffered by any person as a result of the exercise in good faith and
with reasonable care of any powers under section 41C(1) or (3) by the
person so authorised by the Authority or such licensee.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Effect of directions on contracts

 41E.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) a direction under section 41B(1) applies to a person (A);
            and

       (b) in order for A to comply with the direction, A must —

               (i) take from another person less electricity than what A
                   had contracted to take (including no electricity);

              (ii) provide another person with less electricity than
                   what A had contracted to provide (including no
                   electricity); or

             (iii) take from another person less fuel than what A had
                   contracted to take (including no fuel), for the purpose
                   of A generating electricity.

 (2) No action, suit or other legal proceedings lies against A for or in
relation to A’s failure to comply with A’s contractual obligation as

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.     Electricity Act 2001                                  88

described in subsection (1)(b), to the extent that A’s failure is solely
attributable to or occasioned by A’s compliance with the direction.

(3) Where —

(a) A’s failure is in relation to a contract that is part of a chain
     of supply; and

(b) A’s failure results in any person (B) that is a party to some
     other contract in the chain of supply not being able to take
     or provide the electricity, or take fuel, which B had
     contracted to take or provide,

no action, suit or other legal proceedings lies against B for or in
relation to B’s failure to the extent that B’s failure is solely attributable
to or occasioned by A’s failure.

(4) Despite any rule of law, neither A’s failure nor B’s failure —

(a) constitutes a breach of the contract with A or B (as the case
     may be) by which any other party to the contract may
     terminate the contract; or

(b) constitutes an event by which the contract is frustrated,

unless provided for in the contract pursuant to subsection (5).

 (5) Nothing in this section prevents the parties to a contract from
specifically providing in the contract for the respective rights and
obligations of the parties in the event a party to the contract is unable
to take or provide electricity, or take fuel, in the amount contracted for
as a result of —

(a) the party complying with a direction under section 41B(1)
     applicable to the party; or

(b) a party to some other contract in the same chain of supply
     as the firstmentioned contract complying with a direction
     under section 41B(1) applicable to the party to such other
     contract,

or otherwise providing for the effect on the firstmentioned contract of
any matter mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).

 (6) Nothing in this section prevents the parties to a contract entered
into before the date of commencement of section 17 of the Energy

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
89  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

Transition Measures and Other Amendments Act 2024 from agreeing
on or after that date, to make a specific provision in the contract for
the respective rights and obligations of the parties mentioned in
subsection (5).

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Requests for information, etc.

 41F.—(1) For the purpose of forming its opinion in section 41A(a)
and issuing any directions under section 41B(1), the Authority may,
by written notice to any person, request the person to furnish to the
Authority any information and document within the knowledge of the
person or in the person’s custody or under that person’s control,
concerning the electricity usage of that person or any other person.

 (2) Any person who, upon a request mentioned in subsection (1) —

       (a) fails to comply with the request;

       (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any information
            or document required by the request; or

       (c) provides to the Authority any information or document that
            is false, misleading or inaccurate in a material particular, or
            recklessly provides any such information or document,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or to both.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

                                   PART 5B
       MATTERS RELATING TO GENERATION ENTITIES

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

Interpretation of this Part
 41G. In this Part —
      “gas” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Gas Act 2001;
      “generation entity” means a person who engages in the
         generation of electricity, whether the person is authorised

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     90

          by an electricity licence to generate electricity, or is exempt
          under this Act from the requirement of such a licence;

“prescribed generation entity” means a generation entity that is
   prescribed as such, or that is within a class of generation
   licensees prescribed as such, pursuant to section 41H.

                                [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

Application of this Part

 41H. This Part applies to any generation entity or any class of
generation entities prescribed by regulations made under section 103
for the purposes of this Part.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

Procurement of gas by prescribed generation entity

 41I.—(1) Unless the Authority otherwise allows, a prescribed
generation entity that requires gas for any purpose must obtain the gas
only from the holder of a gas importer’s licence (central import)
under the Gas Act 2001.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any prescribed generation
entity in respect of any contract to procure gas that the generation
entity entered into before the date of commencement of section 18 of
the Energy Transition Measures and Other Amendments Act 2024, or
any such contract that is renewed or extended before, on or after that
date.

 (3) However, no term or condition of such contract may be
amended or modified except with the prior approval of the Authority.

 (4) Unless the Authority otherwise allows, a prescribed generation
entity must not, in relation to gas obtained by it —

       (a) from the holder of a gas importer’s licence (central
            import); or

       (b) under a contract mentioned in subsection (2),

provide the gas to any other person, whether or not that person is a
prescribed generation entity.

 (5) Without affecting section 14, where subsection (1), (3) or (4) is
contravened —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
91  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    (a) any contract by which the prescribed generation entity
         purports to obtain gas from a person that does not hold a
         gas importer’s licence (central import);

    (b) any amendment or modification to a contract in
         contravention of subsection (3); or

    (c) any contract by which the prescribed generation entity
        provides the gas mentioned in subsection (4) to any other
        person,

(as the case may be) is void to the extent of the contravention.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

                                    PART 6

               WHOLESALE ELECTRICITY MARKET

Interpretation of this Part

 42.—(1) In this Part —

      “constituent documents” means the memorandum and articles of
         association of the Market Company;

      “Market Company” means the company which holds an
         electricity licence authorising it to operate any wholesale
         electricity market.

 (2) In the event of any inconsistency —

       (a) between the constituent documents and this Act or the
            market rules, this Act or the market rules (as the case may
            be) prevail to the extent of the inconsistency; or

       (b) between the market rules and this Act, this Act prevails to
            the extent of the inconsistency.

 (3) Nothing in this Part is to be construed as conferring on the
Market Company the exclusive right or privilege to operate any
wholesale electricity market.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     92

Functions and powers of Market Company

 43.—(1) The functions of the Market Company are, subject to and
in accordance with this Act, its electricity licence and the constituent
documents —

(a) to operate and administer any wholesale electricity market
     specified in its licence;

(b) to schedule generating units, loads and a transmission
     system of a transmission licensee;

          (c) to facilitate the planning and augmentation of a
              transmission system of a transmission licensee;

(d) to provide information and other services to facilitate
     decisions for investment and the use of resources in the
     electricity industry; and

       (e) to exercise and perform any other powers and duties
            assigned to the Market Company under this Act, its
            licence, the market rules and any code of practice.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) The Market Company may engage in any business, undertaking
or activity incidental to the performance of its functions.

Approval of Minister

 44.—(1) The approval in writing of the Minister is required for —

       (a) the disposal of the whole or substantially the whole of the
            Market Company’s undertaking or property;

       (b) the voluntary winding up of the Market Company; and

       (c) the addition, deletion or alteration of any provision of the
            constituent documents.

 (2) The requirement under subsection (1) is in addition to the
requirements prescribed by the Companies Act 1967 or the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of
the matters referred to in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (3) Any act done or agreement made in contravention of
subsection (1) has no effect and is unenforceable at law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
93  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

Liability of Market Company

 45.—(1) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
director, officer, employee or agent of the Market Company or any
person acting under the direction of the Market Company for
anything which is in good faith done or not done, in the execution or
purported execution of the functions of the Market Company.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not relieve the Market Company of any
liability to which it would otherwise be subject in respect of a cause of
action arising from any act or omission referred to in that subsection.

Market rules

 46.—(1) The Authority is to make initial market rules —

       (a) establishing and governing, amongst other things —

               (i) any wholesale electricity market; and

              (ii) agreements and arrangements in connection with
                   trading;

       (b) governing the activities of the Market Company and
            market participants in and in relation to any wholesale
            electricity market; and

       (c) governing the operation of the electricity system.

 (2) To avoid doubt, rules made for the purpose of subsection (1)(a)
may make provision governing the activities of market support
services licensees in and in relation to any wholesale electricity
market.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (3) The Market Company —

       (a) may modify the market rules in accordance with the market
            rules; and

       (b) must modify the market rules when directed to do so by the
            Authority.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     94

 (4) The market rules made or modified in accordance with this
section must be published by the Market Company in such manner as
will secure adequate publicity.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (5) A modification to the market rules made by the Market
Company under subsection (3) is subject to approval by the
Authority, which approval must be granted unless the Authority
determines that the modification —

(a) being a modification made under subsection (3)(a),
     unjustly discriminates in favour of or against a market
     participant, a market support services licensee, or a class of
     market participants or market support services licensees; or

      (b) is inconsistent with the functions and duties of the
           Authority under section 3(3).

                                                                                                         [18/2006]

(6) The market rules are deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

Penalties under market rules

 47. Without limiting section 46(1), the market rules may include
provisions authorising and governing the imposition of financial
penalties on market participants, the Market Company and market
support services licensees.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

Limitation of actions under market rules

 48.—(1) If the market rules include a provision —

       (a) that regulates the manner in which disputes under the
            market rules or referred to in the market rules are to or may
            be resolved; and

       (b) that restricts recourse to the courts until such time as the
            dispute resolution process in the market rules has been
            exhausted,

recourse to the courts is to be limited in the manner prescribed by the
market rules, including a restriction against appeals to a court except
in relation to matters of law and jurisdiction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
95  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

(2) Nothing in this section is to be read or construed as —

    (a) sanctioning the absolute limitation of appeals to the courts
         except in relation to matters of fact; or

    (b) limiting the right of any person to seek interim injunctive
         relief from the courts.

Market rules have force of contract

 49.—(1) The market rules have the effect of a contract between
each market participant and the Market Company.

 (2) Each market participant and the Market Company are deemed
to have entered into a contract with one another under which each
market participant and the Market Company severally agree to
perform and observe the market rules as far as they are applicable to
each market participant and the Market Company as provided for in
the market rules.

                                    PART 7

                               COMPETITION

Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
competition

 50.—(1) Subject to section 52, agreements, decisions or concerted
practices by persons which have as their object or effect the
prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in any
wholesale electricity market or the retail electricity market in
Singapore are prohibited.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies, in particular, to agreements, decisions or
concerted practices which —

       (a) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices or any
            other trading conditions of electricity in Singapore;

       (b) limit or control generation of electricity, any wholesale
            electricity market, the retail electricity market, technical
            development or investment in the electricity industry in
            Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     96

          (c) share markets or sources of supply of electricity in
              Singapore;

(d) apply dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with
     other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive
     disadvantage;

          (e) make the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by
              the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by
              their nature or according to commercial usage, have no
              connection with the subject of such contracts; or

          (f) provide for the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of shares
              in or the assets of an electricity licensee.

 (3) Subsection (1) applies only if the agreement, decision or
concerted practice is, or is intended to be, implemented in Singapore.

 (4) Subject to section 52, an agreement or a decision which is
prohibited by subsection (1) is void.

 (5) Unless the context otherwise requires, a provision of this Part
which is expressed to apply to, or in relation to, an agreement is to be
read as applying, with any necessary modification, equally to, or in
relation to, a decision by any person or a concerted practice.

 (6) Subsection (1) applies to agreements, decisions and concerted
practices implemented before, on or after 1 January 2003.

Abuse of dominant position

 51.—(1) Subject to section 52, any conduct on the part of one or
more persons which amounts to the abuse of a dominant position in
any wholesale electricity market or the retail electricity market in
Singapore is prohibited if it may affect trade within Singapore.

 (2) Conduct may, in particular, constitute such an abuse if it consists
of —

       (a) directly or indirectly imposing unfair purchase or selling
            prices or other unfair trading conditions of electricity in
            Singapore;

       (b) limiting generation of electricity, any wholesale electricity
            market, the retail electricity market or technical

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
97  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

    development in the electricity industry in Singapore to the
    prejudice of consumers;

    (c) applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions
        with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a
        competitive disadvantage; or

    (d) making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance
         by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by
         their nature or according to commercial usage, have no
         connection with the subject of such contracts.

 (3) In this section, “dominant position” means a dominant position
within Singapore.

Exemption

 52.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, on
the application of any person or on its own initiative, grant an
exemption from section 50(1) or 51(1) to any agreement or conduct.

 (2) An exemption under subsection (1) —

       (a) may be granted subject to such conditions or obligations as
            the Authority considers appropriate;

       (b) has effect for such period as the Authority considers
            appropriate; and

       (c) must be in writing and sent by the Authority to the person
            to whom the exemption is granted.

 (3) The Authority must notify any applicant in writing of its
decision under subsection (1) not to grant an exemption.

 (4) An exemption under this section continues in force for such
period as is specified in such exemption, unless it is previously
revoked in accordance with the terms of such exemption.

 (5) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, on the
application of any person or on its own initiative —

       (a) extend the period for which an exemption granted under
            subsection (1) has effect;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     98

(b) vary or remove any condition or obligation specified in an
     exemption; or

          (c) impose additional conditions or obligations in an
              exemption.

Request for Authority to examine agreement or to consider
conduct, etc.

 53. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

       (a) to provide for persons who are parties to any agreement or
            conduct to apply to the Authority for guidance as to
            whether or not the agreement or conduct is likely to
            infringe section 50(1) or 51(1);

       (b) to provide for the procedure for an application under
            paragraph (a);

       (c) to prescribe any decision which the Authority may make
            and the effect of the decision; and

       (d) generally for giving full effect to the objective of this Part.

 53A. [Repealed by Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

Power to investigate

 54. The Authority may conduct an investigation if there are
reasonable grounds for suspecting that section 50(1) or 51(1) has
been infringed.

Power when conducting investigation

 55.—(1) For the purposes of an investigation under section 54, the
Authority may, by written notice to any person, require that person to
produce to the Authority a specified document, or to provide the
Authority with specified information, which the Authority considers
relates to any matter relevant to the investigation.

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must indicate —

       (a) the subject matter and purpose of the investigation; and

       (b) the nature of the offences created by sections 61, 62 and 63.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
99  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

(3) The Authority may also specify in the notice —

    (a) the time and place at which any document is to be produced
         or any information is to be provided; and

    (b) the manner and form in which it is to be produced or
         provided.

 (4) The power under this section to require a person to produce a
document includes the power —

    (a) if the document is produced —

    (i) to take copies of it or extracts from it; and

    (ii) to require such person, or any person who is a present
         or past officer of the firstmentioned person, or is or
         was at any time employed by the firstmentioned
         person, to provide an explanation of the document;
         or

    (b) if the document is not produced, to require such person to
         state, to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief,
         where it is.

(5) In subsection (1), “specified” means —

    (a) specified, or described, in the notice; or

    (b) falling within a category which is specified, or described,
         in the notice.

Power to enter premises under warrant

 56.—(1) The Authority may apply to a District Court for a warrant
and the Court may issue such a warrant if it is satisfied that —

       (a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are
            on any premises documents the production of which has
            been required under section 55; or

       (b) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

               (i) there are on any premises documents which the
                   Authority has power under section 55 to require to be
                   produced; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     100

          (ii) if the documents were required to be produced, they
               would not be produced but would be concealed,
               removed, tampered with or destroyed.

 (2) A warrant under this section authorises a named officer of the
Authority, and any other of its officers whom the Authority has
authorised in writing to accompany the named officer —

(a) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
     force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

(b) to search the premises and take copies of, or extracts from,
     any document appearing to be of a kind in respect of which
     the application under subsection (1) was granted (the
     relevant kind);

          (c) to take possession of any document appearing to be of the
              relevant kind if —

          (i) such action appears to be necessary for preserving
              the document or preventing interference with it; or

          (ii) it is not reasonably practicable to take copies of the
               document on the premises;

(d) to take any other steps which appear to be necessary for the
     purpose mentioned in paragraph (c)(i);

          (e) to require any person to provide an explanation of any
              document appearing to be of the relevant kind or to state, to
              the best of the person’s knowledge and belief, where it may
              be found; and

          (f) to require any information which is held in a computer and
              is accessible from the premises and which the named
              officer considers relates to any matter relevant to the
              investigation, to be produced in a form —

          (i) in which it can be taken away; and

          (ii) in which it is visible and legible.

 (3) If, in the case of a warrant under subsection (1)(b), the District
Court is satisfied that it is reasonable to suspect that there are also on
the premises other documents relating to the investigation concerned,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
101                    Electricity Act 2001                   2020 Ed.

the warrant also authorises the actions mentioned in subsection (2) to
be taken in relation to any such document.

 (4) If there is no one at the premises when the named officer
proposes to execute such a warrant, the named officer must, before
executing it —

     (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
          inform the occupier of the intended entry; and

     (b) if the occupier is informed, afford the occupier, or the legal
          or other representative of the occupier, a reasonable
          opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (5) If the named officer is unable to inform the occupier of the
intended entry, the named officer must, when executing the warrant,
leave a copy of it in a prominent place on the premises.

 (6) On leaving any premises which the named officer has entered
by virtue of a warrant under this section, the named officer must, if
the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent,
leave them as effectively secured as the named officer found them.

 (7) A warrant under this section continues in force until the end of
the period of one month beginning from the day on which it is issued.

 (8) Any document of which possession is taken under
subsection (2)(c) may be retained for a period of 3 months.

(9) In this section —

     “named officer” means the officer named in the warrant;

     “occupier”, in relation to any premises, means a person whom
        the named officer reasonably believes is the occupier of those
        premises.

Privileged communication

 57. A person is not required, under any provision of this Part, to
produce or disclose a communication —

       (a) between a professional legal adviser and his or her client;
            or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     102

(b) made in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal
     proceedings and for the purposes of those proceedings,

which in proceedings in a court would be protected from disclosure
on grounds of privilege.

Decision following investigation

 58. Where, following an investigation conducted under section 54,
the Authority considers that section 50(1) or 51(1) has been infringed
and the Authority proposes to make a direction under section 59, the
Authority must —

       (a) give written notice to the person likely to be affected by
            such direction; and

       (b) give such person an opportunity to make representations to
            the Authority.

Enforcement and appeal

 59.—(1) Where the Authority has made a decision that
section 50(1) or 51(1) has been infringed, the Authority may give
directions to such person as the Authority considers appropriate to
bring the infringement to an end.

 (2) A direction referred to in subsection (1) may, in particular,
include provisions —

       (a) where the decision is that any agreement infringes
            section 50(1) —

               (i) requiring the person to modify or terminate the
                   agreement; and

              (ii) in the case of an agreement referred to in
                   section 50(2)(f), requiring the person to dispose of
                   all or any of the relevant shares or assets, otherwise
                   than to an associated person, within a period
                   specified in the direction, being not less than
                   3 months after service of the direction;

       (b) where the decision is that any conduct infringes
            section 51(1) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
103  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (i) requiring the person to modify the conduct in
         question; or

     (ii) requiring the person to cease that conduct; and

     (c) in either case, requiring the person —

     (i) to pay to the Authority a financial penalty in respect
         of the infringement of an amount not exceeding
         $1 million or 10% of the annual turnover of such
         person’s business in Singapore, ascertained from its
         latest audited accounts, whichever is the higher; and

     (ii) to provide a performance bond, guarantee or other
          form of security on such terms and conditions as the
          Authority may determine.

 (3) Where a person fails to comply with a direction referred to in
subsection (2)(a)(ii), the shares last registered in the name of that
person or the assets (as the case may be) that are the subject of the
acquisition and specified by the Authority by written notice served on
the person, are forfeited to the Government.

 (4) Any shares or assets forfeited to the Government under
subsection (3) must be sold by the Government as soon as
practicable and the proceeds of sale, after deduction of the
reasonable costs of the forfeiture and sale, must be paid to the
person from whom the shares or assets were forfeited.

 (5) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision or direction of the
Authority under this Part may, within 14 days after receipt of the
notice referred to in section 60, appeal to the Appeal Panel under
Part 8.

 (6) An appeal under subsection (5) does not suspend the effect of a
decision or direction to which the appeal relates unless the appeal is
against the imposition or the amount of a financial penalty.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (7) In this section —

     “associated person” has the meaning given by section 76D(14)
        of the Companies Act 1967;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     104

“relevant shares or assets” means any shares or assets of an
   electricity licensee held by the person that would need to be
   disposed of in order to cause the acquisition to cease to have
   the object or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting
   competition in any wholesale electricity market or the retail
   electricity market.

Notification

 60. The Authority must, within 14 days of the Authority making
any decision or direction under this Part, notify any person affected
by such decision or direction.

Offences

 61.—(1) A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed
on the person under section 55 or 56 shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) in
respect of a requirement to produce a document, it is a defence for the
person to prove that —

       (a) the document was not in the person’s possession or under
            the person’s control; and

       (b) it was not reasonably practicable for the person to comply
            with the requirement.

 (3) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) in
respect of a requirement —

       (a) to provide information;

       (b) to provide an explanation of a document; or

       (c) to state where a document is to be found,

it is a defence for the person to prove that the person had a reasonable
excuse for failing to comply with the requirement.

 (4) Failure to comply with a requirement imposed under section 55
is not an offence if the person imposing the requirement has failed to
act in accordance with that section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
105  Electricity Act 2001  2020 Ed.

 (5) Any person who intentionally obstructs an officer in the
exercise of the officer’s powers under a warrant issued under
section 56 shall be guilty of an offence.

Destroying or falsifying documents

 62. Any person who, having been required to produce a document
under section 55 or 56 —

       (a) intentionally or recklessly destroys or otherwise disposes
            of it, falsifies it or conceals it; or

       (b) causes or permits its destruction, disposal, falsification or
            concealment,

shall be guilty of an offence.

False or misleading information

 63. Any person who provides information to the Authority or its
authorised officer in connection with any function or duty of the
Authority under this Part which is false or misleading in a material
particular shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    PART 8
                              APPEAL PANEL
Request to establish Appeal Panel
 64.—(1) This section applies to —
       (a) an electricity licensee who wishes to appeal against a
            decision of the Authority to modify any condition of its
            electricity licence; and
       (b) any person who is aggrieved by a direction or decision of
            the Authority under Part 7.
 (2) A person to whom this section applies may, within 14 days —
       (a) of the receipt of a direction under section 12(4) to modify
            any condition of an electricity licence; or
       (b) of the receipt of a notification by the Authority of a
            direction or decision under Part 7,

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     106

notify the Minister that the person wishes to make an appeal,
providing adequate details of the grounds for the appeal and
requesting the Minister to establish an Appeal Panel to consider
and determine the appeal.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (3) When requested to establish an Appeal Panel, the Minister
must, upon consultation with the Authority, unless the request is in
the opinion of the Minister of a frivolous, trivial or vexatious nature,
establish an Appeal Panel within 30 days after the request to consider
and determine the appeal in question.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

Composition and procedure of Appeal Panel

 65.—(1) An Appeal Panel established by the Minister is to consist
of at least 3 persons, one of whom must be appointed by the Minister
to be the chairperson of the Appeal Panel.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (2) The Minister may, in establishing an Appeal Panel, provide
for —

       (a) the terms and conditions of the membership of the Appeal
            Panel as the Minister considers appropriate;

       (b) the procedure to be adopted by the Appeal Panel in
            considering any matter referred to it; and

       (c) any other matters which the Minister considers incidental
            or expedient for the proper and efficient conduct of an
            appeal by the Appeal Panel.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (3) The remuneration and allowances (if any) of a member of an
Appeal Panel are to be determined by the Minister and —

       (a) subject to paragraph (b), form part of the expenses of the
            Authority; and

       (b) where the Appeal Panel is established for the purposes of
            section 20A, must be borne equally by the person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
107  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

            concerned and E, or in any other proportion between the
            person concerned and E that the Appeal Panel may specify.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) An Appeal Panel must be independent in the performance of its
functions.

Powers of Appeal Panel

 66.—(1) An Appeal Panel must —

       (a) by notice to the Authority and the appellant; or

       (b) where the Appeal Panel is established for the purposes of
            section 20A, by notice to the person concerned and E,

specify the date on and the place at which the appeal is to be heard.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) An Appeal Panel has all the powers and duties of the Authority
that are necessary to carry out its functions and duties under this Act.

 (3) An Appeal Panel has the powers, rights and privileges vested in
a District Court on the hearing of an action, including —

       (a) the enforcement of the attendance of witnesses and their
            examination on oath or otherwise;

       (b) the compelling of the production of documents; and

       (c) the award of costs and expenses of and incidental to any
            proceedings before the Appeal Panel.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (4) A summons signed by any member of the Appeal Panel as may
be authorised by the Appeal Panel is equivalent to any formal
procedure capable of being issued in an action for enforcing the
attendance of witnesses and compelling the production of documents.

 (5) Where any person being duly summoned to attend before an
Appeal Panel does not so attend, that person shall be guilty of an
offence.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     108

 (6) A witness before an Appeal Panel is entitled to the same
immunities and privileges as if he or she were a witness before a
District Court.

 (7) All appeals under this section are to be determined, having
regard to the nature and complexity of the appeal, as soon as
reasonably practicable.

 (8) In the case of a modification of any condition of a licence, the
Appeal Panel may either confirm the modification or direct the
Authority not to make the modification, and the decision of the
Appeal Panel is final.

 (9) In the case of a direction or decision of the Authority under
Part 7, the Appeal Panel may either confirm, vary or reverse the
direction or decision of the Authority or direct the Authority to
reconsider the direction or decision, and the decision of the Appeal
Panel is final.

 (10) An Appeal Panel established by the Minister to consider and
determine an appeal under section 98(3) may determine the appeal by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction of the
Authority or by amending any code of practice or standard of
performance issued or approved by the Authority, and the decision of
the Appeal Panel is final.

                                                                                                           [18/2006]

 (11) The Appeal Panel must notify the appellant of its decision in
respect of the appellant’s appeal and the reasons for its decision.

 (12) Where an Appeal Panel is established for the purposes of
section 20A, the Appeal Panel must notify the person concerned and
E of its decision in respect of the terms of the agreement required to
be determined by it, and the reasons for its decision.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
109  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

                         PART 9

     ELECTRICAL AND SUPPLY INSTALLATIONS, CABLE
       DETECTION WORK AND ELECTRICAL WORKERS

Licence required for use or operation of electrical or supply
installation, etc.

67.—(1) No person may —

     (a) use, work or operate or permit to be used, worked or
          operated any electrical or supply installation; or

     (b) supply to or for the use of any other person electricity from
          any electrical or supply installation,

except under and in accordance with the terms of an electrical or a
supply installation licence granted by the Authority under this section
authorising such use, work, operation or supply.

 (2) An electrical or a supply installation licence may be granted
under this section on the payment of such fee (if any) as may be
prescribed.

 (3) An electrical or a supply installation licence must not be
transferred without the approval of the Authority.

 (4) An electrical or a supply installation licence is subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed and to such further conditions (if
any) as may be imposed and endorsed on the licence by the Authority.

 (5) An electrical or a supply installation licence may be for such
period as the Authority may approve.

 (6) In every electrical or supply installation licence, there is to be
specified as may be appropriate —

     (a) the installation area;

     (b) the declared voltage frequency and the variations permitted
          thereon; and

     (c) any other matters that the Authority may consider
         desirable.

 (7) The Authority may, in its discretion, require that, before the
grant of any electrical or supply installation licence, such security as

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     110

it may specify must be furnished to ensure the due observance of the
terms and conditions of the licence and of the provisions of this Act.

 (8) An electrical or a supply installation licence may be surrendered
by the licensee to the Authority for cancellation if the electrical or
supply installation is no longer required to be used.

 (9) Where the licensee wishes to operate the electrical or supply
installation after the surrender of the licence, the installation must be
treated in all respects as if it were a new electrical or supply
installation.

 (10) Any electrical or supply installation licence issued under the
Public Utilities Act (Cap. 261, 1996 Revised Edition) in force
immediately before 1 January 2003 continues in force until
suspended or revoked and is deemed to have been issued under
this Act.

Notice to electricity licensee to cut off supply

 68.—(1) Where any person operates an electrical or a supply
installation without an electrical or a supply installation licence —

       (a) the Authority may by written notice direct any electricity
            licensee to forthwith discontinue the supply of electricity
            to that electrical or supply installation; and

       (b) the electricity licensee must, upon receipt of the notice,
            immediately comply with the notice.

 (2) Where the Authority has directed an electricity licensee to
discontinue a supply of electricity under subsection (1), the licensee
may discontinue the supply until all expenses incurred by the licensee
are fully paid by the person operating the electrical or supply
installation.

Supply lines and other apparatus on State land

 69.—(1) Subject to the approval of the Commissioner of Lands and
to such conditions as he or she may impose, an electrical or a supply
installation licence may authorise the licensee to lay, place or carry
on, under or over any State land to the extent and in the manner
specified in the licence, such supply lines, and to erect and maintain

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
111  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

in or on the State land such posts and other apparatuses as may, in the
opinion of the Authority, be necessary or proper for the purposes of
the electrical or supply installation.

 (2) Any authorisation under subsection (1) may be given or added
to at any time during the currency of the licence by endorsement
thereon.

 (3) All apparatuses placed in or upon any State land which is not
removed therefrom within 6 months, or such longer period as the
Commissioner of Lands may permit, after the expiration or earlier
determination of the licence under the authority of which the
apparatus was so placed, are to vest in and become the property of
the Government.

Existing electrical or supply installation

 70. All electrical and supply installations which have been operated
or the construction of which has been completed or has begun on or
before 1 January 2003 are subject to this Act.

Exemption of certain electrical or supply installation

 71. The Authority may, by notification in the Gazette, exempt from
all or any of the provisions of this Part —

       (a) any electrical or supply installation owned and operated by
            an electricity licensee, the Government or any statutory
            authority;

       (b) any electrical or supply installation used exclusively for
            domestic purposes; or

       (c) any other electrical or supply installations that the
            Authority may consider desirable.

Control by electrical worker

 72.—(1) A person granted an electrical or a supply installation
licence must employ or appoint such class or classes of electrical
workers as the Authority may direct to operate or to be in charge of or
to control any electrical or supply installation and no other person

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     112

may operate or be in charge of or control the electrical or supply
installation.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

Inspection of electrical or supply installation

 73.—(1) A person granted an electrical or a supply installation
licence must cause all electrical or supply installations owned or
operated by the person to be inspected at such intervals as the
Authority may consider necessary.

 (2) An inspection referred to in subsection (1) must be carried out
by such class or classes of electrical workers as the Authority may
direct.

 (3) On completion of the inspection, a certificate as to the fitness of
the electrical or supply installation for licensing purposes must be
issued by the electrical worker who carried out the inspection.

Restriction of use to specified purpose

 74.—(1) A person granted an electrical or a supply installation
licence who is, by the conditions of the person’s licence, restricted to
using or supplying electricity for specified purposes only, must not
use or supply electricity for any purpose other than those specified.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Procedure in case of defect in electrical or supply installation

 75.—(1) Every electrical worker appointed to operate or to be in
charge of or to control any electrical or supply installation and every
person granted an electrical or a supply installation licence who
becomes aware of a defect in any electrical or supply installation must
forthwith make good or remove the defect or make a report thereon to
the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
113  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) Where a report is made to the Authority under subsection (1),
the Authority may by notice —

     (a) posted on the premises where the electrical or supply
          installation is installed or working; or

     (b) served on the person granted an electrical or a supply
          installation licence or the electrical worker who is
          appointed to operate or to be in charge of or to control
          the electrical or supply installation (as the case may be),

require the defect to be made good or removed within such period as
may be specified in the notice, and the electrical or supply installation
must not be operated or used after the expiration of that period unless
the defect has been made good or removed to the satisfaction of the
Authority.

 (3) If the Authority is of the opinion that the defect is likely to cause
immediate danger, the Authority may, by notice posted or served in
the manner specified in subsection (2), forthwith suspend the
operation and use of the electrical or supply installation until the
defect is made good or removed, and the electrical or supply
installation must not be operated or used so long as the notice of
suspension remains in force.

 (4) The Authority is not liable for the loss or damage caused to any
person —

     (a) by the suspension of the operation and use of any electrical
          or supply installation under this section; or

     (b) by the suspension or revocation of an electrical or a supply
          installation licence under section 76.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence.

Suspension and revocation of electrical or supply installation
licence

 76. An electrical or a supply installation licence may at any time be
suspended or revoked by the Authority —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     114

(a) on breach of any of the conditions of the licence or for
     non‑compliance with any of the provisions of this Act;

(b) in default of payment of any money due; or

          (c) if the licensee ceases to work or operate any electrical or
              supply installation in respect of which the licence was
              granted.

Entry upon premises

 77.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), an authorised officer may, in the
performance of his or her functions and duties under this Act, enter
upon any premises in or upon which any electrical or supply
installation may be, at all reasonable hours of the day and at any time
when the electrical or supply installation is in operation.

 (2) The authorised officer seeking to enter any premises under
subsection (1) must carry and produce on demand an official
identification card or badge in such form as the Authority may direct.

 (3) No person is obliged to admit into the person’s premises any
person purporting to be an authorised officer except upon production
of such identification card or badge.

Authority not liable for operation of electrical or supply
installation

 78. Despite the grant of an electrical or a supply installation licence,
the Authority is not responsible for the operation or maintenance of
any electrical or supply installation or for any injury to any person or
damage to anything by reason of operating or omitting to operate or
maintaining or omitting to maintain any electrical or supply
installation.

Cable detection work to be carried out before earthworks

 79.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), no person may commence or
carry out, or cause or permit the commencement or carrying out of,
any earthworks within the vicinity of any low voltage electricity cable
which belongs to or which is under the management or control of an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
115  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

electricity licensee unless the person has caused cable detection work
to be carried out by a licensed cable detection worker.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) prohibits a person from commencing
or carrying out any earthworks where the person has reasonable cause
to believe that it is necessary to do so in the interest of public or
private safety except that the person must, not more than 7 days after
the earthworks have been commenced or carried out, give to the
electricity licensee written notice stating the nature and extent of
those earthworks.

 (3) Subsection (1) does not prohibit an electricity licensee from
commencing or carrying out earthworks within the vicinity of any
low voltage electricity cable that belongs to or that is under the
management or control of the electricity licensee.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (4) No person other than a licensed cable detection worker or an
electricity licensee may commence or carry out any cable detection
work within the vicinity of any low voltage electricity cable
belonging to or under the management or control of the licensee
where such cable detection work is commenced or carried out in
connection or combination with or in relation to any earthworks
carried out or to be carried out.

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Carrying out of earthworks within vicinity of high voltage
electricity cable

 80.—(1) Subject to this section, no person may commence or carry
out, or cause or permit the commencement or carrying out of, any
earthworks within the vicinity of any high voltage electricity cable
which belongs to or which is under the management or control of an
electricity licensee unless the person —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     116

(a) has given to the electricity licensee not less than 7 days’
     written notice of the date on which it is proposed to
     commence the earthworks;

(b) has obtained from the electricity licensee the necessary
     information on the location of such high voltage electricity
     cable and has consulted the electricity licensee on the steps
     to be taken to prevent the high voltage electricity cable
     from damage while the earthworks are being carried out;
     and

       (c) has caused cable detection work to be carried out by a
            licensed cable detection worker in order to confirm the
            location of the high voltage electricity cable.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (2) No person other than a licensed cable detection worker may
commence or carry out any cable detection work within the vicinity
of any high voltage electricity cable which belongs to or which is
under the management or control of an electricity licensee.

 (3) The Authority may, if it thinks fit, modify the period for which a
notice under subsection (1)(a) is to be given to an electricity licensee.

 (4) It is the duty of the person who commences or carries out, or
causes or permits the commencement or carrying out of, any
earthworks referred to in subsection (1) —

(a) to comply with all reasonable requirements of the
     electricity licensee for the prevention of damage to the
     high voltage electricity cable;

(b) to ensure that reasonable precautions are taken when
     carrying out such earthworks to prevent any damage to the
     high voltage electricity cable; and

       (c) to allow the electricity licensee reasonable access to the
            work site for the purpose of inspecting or taking any
            necessary measures to protect the high voltage electricity
            cable.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (5) It is the duty of the electricity licensee to whom a notice under
subsection (1)(a) has been given —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
117  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (a) to promptly inform the person, who has given the
          electricity licensee the notice, of the location of the high
          voltage electricity cable and to provide the person with any
          other information as may be necessary to enable the person
          to ascertain the exact location of the high voltage
          electricity cable;

     (b) to advise the person, who has given the electricity licensee
          the notice, on the precautions to be taken to prevent
          damage to the high voltage electricity cable; and

     (c) to take all such measures at the work site as may be
         reasonable and necessary for the protection of the high
         voltage electricity cable from damage and, in so doing, the
         electricity licensee must have regard to the potential risks
         and dangers that can arise from any damage to the high
         voltage electricity cable.

 (6) Nothing in subsection (1) prohibits a person from commencing
or carrying out any earthworks where the person has reasonable cause
to believe that it is necessary to do so in the interest of public or
private safety except that the person must, not more than 7 days after
the earthworks have been commenced or carried out, give to the
electricity licensee written notice stating the nature and extent of
those earthworks.

 (6A) Subsection (1) does not prohibit an electricity licensee from
commencing or carrying out earthworks within the vicinity of any
high voltage electricity cable that belongs to or that is under the
management or control of the electricity licensee.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (4) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     118

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), in any proceedings for an offence
under subsection (7), it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

(a) that the person took all reasonable steps to discharge the
     person’s duty under subsection (1) or (4), as the case may
     be; or

(b) that the person took all reasonable precautions and
     exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of
     the offence.

 (10) If in any proceedings for any offence under subsection (7), the
defence involves acting on information supplied by any of the
following:

(a) an electricity licensee to whom any high voltage electricity
     cable belongs or that manages or controls such cable;

(b) any person to whom any infrastructure described in
     subsection (11) belongs or that manages or controls such
     infrastructure;

          (c) a licensed cable detection worker,

then the person charged is not, without permission of the court,
entitled to rely on that defence unless, within 14 clear days before the
hearing, the person charged has served on the prosecutor a written
notice giving such information as was then in the possession of the
person charged identifying or assisting in the identification of the
person who supplied the person charged with the information.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (11) This section (except subsection (1)(c)) applies to any
infrastructure (including cable pipe-blocks and tunnels) housing or
intended to house any transmission electricity cable, as it applies to
any high voltage electricity cable which belongs to or which is under
the management or control of an electricity licensee, and for this
purpose, a reference to an electricity licensee in this section is a
reference to the person to whom the infrastructure belongs or that
manages or controls the infrastructure.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
119  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (12) In this section, “transmission electricity cable” means an
electricity cable used for the transmission of electricity at 66 kilovolts
or higher.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Powers of Authority in relation to cable detection work

 81.—(1) The Authority may —

       (a) grant a cable detection work licence permitting a person to
            perform such cable detection work as is specified in the
            licence and suspend, cancel, alter, extend, renew or replace
            any such licence;

       (b) classify any cable detection work licence in such manner as
            it may determine;

       (c) specify the nature of the cable detection work in respect of
            which a cable detection work licence is granted and restrict
            such work to any type or class of cable detection work;

       (d) specify the circumstances or manner in which licensed
            cable detection workers may perform or carry out cable
            detection work;

       (e) impose any terms, conditions or restrictions on any cable
            detection work licence;

        (f) require any electricity licensee to conduct approved
            courses of training, including refresher courses, and
            provide for examinations for cable detection workers; and

       (g) keep a register of licensed cable detection workers.

 (2) No person other than a licensed cable detection worker is
entitled to recover in any court any charge, fee or remuneration for
any cable detection work carried out by the person.

 (3) Any cable detection work licence issued under the Public
Utilities Act (Cap. 261, 1996 Revised Edition) in force immediately
before 1 January 2003 is, so far as it is not inconsistent with this Act,
to continue in force until suspended or revoked and is deemed to have
been issued under this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     120

Licensing of electrical worker

 82.—(1) An individual must not carry out, or offer or undertake to
carry out, any electrical work unless —

(a) the individual is a licensed electrical worker; or

       (b) the individual acts under the supervision of an individual
            who is a licensed electrical worker.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) An individual must not hold himself or herself out (whether by
an advertisement or any other means) as authorised under this Act to
carry out any electrical work, unless the individual is a licensed
electrical worker.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (3) A person must not in the course of business (whether or not
carried on for profit) provide, or offer or undertake to provide, the
carrying out of any electrical work unless the person ensures that the
work is carried out by —

(a) one or more individuals, each being a licensed electrical
     worker; or

       (b) one or more individuals acting under the supervision of one
            or more individuals, each of the latter being a licensed
            electrical worker.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (4) A person must not hold out (whether by an advertisement or any
other means) that the person is authorised under this Act to provide in
the course of business the carrying out of any electrical work, unless
the person ensures that the work is carried out by the individuals
mentioned in subsection (3)(a) or (b).

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (5) An owner or occupier of any premises who wishes to have any
electrical work carried out at the premises must not knowingly
engage (whether with or without consideration) a person that is not
permitted under subsection (1) or (3) to carry out any electrical work
or to provide the carrying out of any electrical work, as the case may
be.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
121  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

(6) The Authority may —

     (a) issue an electrical worker licence permitting a person to
          carry out such electrical work as is specified in the licence
          and suspend, cancel, alter, extend, renew or replace any
          such licence;

     (b) classify any electrical worker licence in such manner as it
          may determine;

     (c) specify the nature of the electrical work in respect of which
         an electrical worker licence is issued and restrict such work
         to any type or class of electrical work or any type or class
         of electrical installation;

     (d) specify the circumstances or manner in which licensed
          electrical workers may carry out electrical work; or

     (e) attach any exemption to or impose any term, condition or
         restriction on any electrical worker licence.

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (2), (3), (4) or (5)
shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (8) Despite any provision in this section, but subject to any other
written law, it is not unlawful for —

     (a) a person to replace any lamp that is connected in the
          person’s own electrical installation;

     (b) a person to replace any fuse in the person’s own electrical
          installation similar to that of a household;

     (c) an officer or employee of the Authority to carry out
         personally any electrical work in the course of his or her
         employment or in the discharge of his or her duties as such
         officer or employee;

     (d) the Authority to do any act or thing on or in connection
          with its own electrical installation;

     (e) a person, other than an electrical worker, whose trade or
         occupation normally includes the performance of work on
         any appliance, plant or machinery driven, or operated by,
         or incorporating any electrical installation, to carry out that

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     122

          work in the normal course of the person’s trade or
          occupation or for purposes incidental thereto, so long as
          the person does not carry out work on any part or circuit
          which is, or may be, connected to a source of electricity
          supply; and

          (f) a trained person to carry out any work in accordance with
              the written instructions of the licensed electrical worker in
              charge of the relevant electrical installation.

 (9) In subsection (8)(f), a “trained person” means any employee
who is —

(a) recognised by his or her employer and the licensed
     electrical worker in charge of the relevant electrical
     installation to have the necessary knowledge and
     experience to avoid danger; and

(b) capable of carrying out the work specified in the written
     instructions of the licensed electrical worker.

 (10) Any electrical worker licence issued under the Electrical
Workers and Contractors Licensing Act (Cap. 89, 1985 Revised
Edition), in force immediately before 1 December 2002 is, so far as it
is not inconsistent with this Act, to continue in force until suspended
or revoked and is deemed to have been issued under this Act.

                                   PART 10

                                  OFFENCES

Offences relating to electrical or supply installations

 83.—(1) Any person who supplies electricity to any premises
without an electrical or a supply installation licence shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (2) Any person who wilfully tampers with or adjusts any electrical
or supply installation or any part thereof so as to cause or to be likely
to cause danger to human life or damage to any property shall be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
123  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years.

 (3) Any person who, by rash or negligent act or omission
committed or omitted in respect of any electrical or supply
installation or any part thereof under the person’s control, causes
hurt to any person or damage to any property shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (4) Any person who contravenes section 67(1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) Any licensee of a supply installation who without express
authority from the Authority supplies electricity or lays down any
supply line or constructs any electrical works outside the installation
area specified in the licensee’s licence shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (6) Any such unauthorised line or works may be removed by order
of the Authority, and the reasonable cost of such removal may be
recovered from the licensee.

 (7) Any licensee of an electrical or a supply installation who,
without lawful excuse, fails to comply with any condition in the
licensee’s licence shall be guilty of an offence.

Restoration of supply without consent

 84. Any person who, without the consent of an electricity licensee,
restores a supply of electricity to any premises where such supply has
been discontinued by the electricity licensee in the exercise of its
powers under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     124

offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a
day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Damage to property of electricity licensee

 85.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) removes, destroys or damages any electrical plant or
            electricity cable which is part of a transmission system that
            belongs to or that is under the management or control of an
            electricity licensee;

       (b) causes or permits the removal, destruction or damage of
            such electrical plant or electricity cable; or

       (c) in any way other than by paragraph (a) or (b), wilfully or
            recklessly hinders or prevents such electrical plant or
            electricity cable from being used or operated in the manner
            in which it is intended to be used or operated,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (2) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]

 (3) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]

 (4) Any person (A) may apprehend any other person (B) if B within
A’s view commits an offence under this section and must, on such
apprehension without unreasonable delay, hand over B to a police
officer.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1)(a) or (b),
it is a defence for the person charged to prove that the person took all
reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the
commission of the offence.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (6) If in any proceedings for any offence under subsection (1)(a) or
(b), the defence involves acting on information supplied by any of the
following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
125  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (a) an electricity licensee to whom any transmission system
          belongs or that manages or controls any transmission
          system;

     (b) any person to whom any infrastructure described in
          subsection (7) belongs or that manages or controls such
          infrastructure;

     (c) a licensed cable detection worker,

then the person charged is not, without permission of the court,
entitled to rely on that defence unless, within 14 clear days before the
hearing, the person charged has served on the prosecutor a written
notice giving such information as was then in the possession of the
person charged identifying or assisting in the identification of the
person who supplied the person charged with the information.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (7) This section applies to any infrastructure (including cable pipe-
blocks and tunnels) housing or intended to house any transmission
electricity cable, as it applies to any electrical plant or electricity
cable which is part of a transmission system that belongs to or that is
under the management or control of an electricity licensee, and for
this purpose, a reference to an electricity licensee in this section is a
reference to the person to whom the infrastructure belongs or that
manages or controls the infrastructure.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (8) In this section, “transmission electricity cable” has the meaning
given by section 80(12).

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Damage to submarine electricity cables, etc.

 85A. Any person who wilfully, recklessly or negligently —

       (a) does any act, or causes or permits any act to be done, which
            damages or is likely to damage any submarine electric line
            or electricity cable in the territorial waters of Singapore
            that belongs to or that is under the management or control
            of an electricity licensee; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     126

(b) omits to do anything required to prevent any damage to any
     such submarine electric line or electricity cable,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

Falsely pretending to be employee of Authority or electricity
licensee

 86. Any person who seeks to obtain entry to any premises by falsely
pretending to be an employee of the Authority or an electricity
licensee shall be guilty of an offence.

Unauthorised use of electricity

87.—(1) Any person who —

(a) dishonestly or fraudulently abstracts, uses, consumes or
     diverts any electricity supplied by an electricity licensee;

(b) alters or tampers with any part of any meter or meter
     installation supplied by an electricity licensee for
     registering the quantity of electricity supplied to any
     person or premises;

          (c) does any thing that compromises or adversely affects the
              ability or proper operation of any meter or meter
              installation supplied by an electricity licensee, in duly
              registering the quantity of electricity supplied to any
              person or premises; or

(d) causes or permits any other person to engage in conduct
     mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c),

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                   [42/2018]

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a),
(b), (c) or (d) shall be liable on conviction to one or both of the
following:

(a) a fine that is the total of —

          (i) an amount not exceeding $50,000; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
127  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (ii) an amount equal to 3 times the value of electricity —

     (A) abstracted, used, consumed or diverted in the
          commission of the offence under
          subsection (1)(a), or caused or permitted to
          be so abstracted, used, consumed or diverted in
          the commission of the offence under
          subsection (1)(d), as the case may be; or

     (B) supplied as a result of the commission of the
          offence under subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d), as
          the case may be;

     (b) imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years,

and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (3) The value of the electricity abstracted, used, consumed, diverted
or supplied as mentioned in subsection (2)(a)(ii), may be determined
based on the amount of such electricity fairly and reasonably
estimated after comparing records (as are appropriate and available)
of electricity usage before, during and after the abstraction, use,
consumption, diversion or supply.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (4) If, in any proceedings before a court for an offence under
subsection (1)(b) or subsection (1)(d) (in relation to
subsection (1)(b)), it is alleged that a person altered or tampered
with any part of any meter or meter installation mentioned in
subsection (1)(b), or caused or permitted any other person to engage
in such alteration or tampering, and it is proved —

     (a) that, at the time of the alleged conduct —

     (i) a device or wire was attached to, or was in the
         vicinity of, the meter or meter installation (or any
         part of the meter or meter installation) for the
         purpose of altering the index of the meter or meter
         installation or preventing the meter or meter

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     128

          installation from duly registering the quantity of
          electricity supplied;

          (ii) the covering of the meter or meter installation had a
               hole which is not a result of ordinary wear and tear;

          (iii) any seal fastened by an electricity licensee to any
                part of the meter or meter installation was damaged,
                removed or changed;

          (iv) any paint or other chemical compound applied by an
               electricity licensee to or on any screw, component or
               mechanism of any part of the meter or meter
               installation was damaged or removed or altered in
               its chemical composition; or

          (v) the position or arrangement of any test link on a
               meter terminal test block of the meter installation
               was changed or altered; and

(b) that the person had, at the time of the alleged conduct,
     custody or control of the meter or meter installation,

then the person is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have so
altered or tampered with the meter or meter installation, or to have so
caused or permitted the other person to engage in such alteration or
tampering, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Obstructing licensee in performance of duties

 88. Any person who at any time molests, or without cause, hinders
or obstructs, any employee, agent or contractor of an electricity
licensee in the performance of the duties of the employee, agent or
contractor (as the case may be) or anything which the employee,
agent or contractor is respectively authorised, empowered or required
to do under this Act shall be guilty of an offence.

Making of false statements

 89.—(1) Any person who, when giving information to the
Authority or making any application under or for the purposes of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
129  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

any provision of this Act, makes any statement which the person
knows to be false in a material particular, or who recklessly makes
any statement which is false in a material particular, shall be guilty of
an offence.

(2) Any person who —

     (a) wilfully or fraudulently procures or attempts to procure for
          the person or for any other person any licence under this
          Act by making or producing or causing to be made or
          produced any false or fraudulent representation or
          declaration either verbally or in writing; or

     (b) knowingly aids or assists therein,

shall be guilty of an offence.

Jurisdiction of court

 90. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Offences by body corporate

 91. Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company, firm, society or other body of persons, any person who, at
the time of the commission of the offence, was a director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer or a partner of the company, firm,
society or other body of persons or was purporting to act in any such
capacity, shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly unless the person proves
that —

       (a) the offence was committed without the person’s consent or
            connivance; and

       (b) the person had exercised all such due diligence to prevent
            the commission of the offence as the person ought to have
            exercised, having regard to the nature of the person’s
            functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.           Electricity Act 2001                            130

General penalties

 92. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Composition of offences

 93.—(1) The Authority may, in its discretion, compound any
offence under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $3,000.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

                                    PART 11

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Serious accidents to be reported and investigated

 94.—(1) When any accident causing or resulting in loss of life or
hurt to any person or serious damage to property has occurred in
connection with any electrical or supply installation, or any other
installation, the owner of the premises concerned and the person
granted a licence under Part 9 for the installation must —

       (a) report the accident to the Authority by the quickest means
            available; and

       (b) subsequently with the least possible delay, report in writing
            to the Authority the facts of the matter so far as the facts are
            known.

 (2) Any authorised officer must as soon as practicable after receipt
of the first report —

       (a) visit the place where the accident occurred;

       (b) make a preliminary investigation of the circumstances;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
131  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (c) record in writing his or her findings upon such
         investigation;

     (d) forward his or her report to the Authority; and

     (e) if there has been any loss of life or there is reason to believe
         that any person has been seriously injured, send a copy of
         his or her findings to the Public Prosecutor.

 (3) In the event of loss of life or grievous hurt to any person due to
any accident arising from the use or operation of or caused by any
electrical or supply installation or other installation, no alteration or
addition may, without the approval of the Authority, be made to any
part of the installation which may have contributed towards the cause
of the accident or to the site of the accident until investigations have
been completed.

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) operates to interfere with rescue work
or other work necessary for the general safety of life or property.

(5) If upon a preliminary investigation under subsection (2)(b) —

     (a) it appears to the Authority that there is reason to believe
          that the accident was due to any failure to comply with the
          provisions of this Act or due to neglect to obey any lawful
          order given by the Authority; or

     (b) the authorised officer investigating the accident is satisfied
          that the accident might have been prevented if proper
          precautions had been taken and observed in the operation
          or working of the electrical or supply installation or other
          installation,

the Authority must hold an inquiry into the nature and cause of the
accident with the assistance, if considered necessary by the Authority,
of one or more persons of electrical or other special skill or
experience to be nominated by the Authority as assessors.

 (6) At the conclusion of the inquiry held under subsection (5), a
copy of the findings taken at the inquiry together with the opinion of
the Authority must be forwarded to the Public Prosecutor.

 (7) Any person who, without lawful excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.              Electricity Act 2001                         132

Effect of winding up

 94A.—(1) This section applies where a winding up order has been
made or a provisional liquidator has been appointed under the
Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in respect of an
electricity licensee or an entity wholly-owned by the Authority (each
called in this section E) that is a market participant.

 (2) Where E has provided the Market Company, a transmission
licensee or a market support services licensee any payment security
or other security deposit in respect of services provided to E by the
Market Company or licensee (as the case may be), the Market
Company or licensee may, despite section 133 of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018, draw down on the payment
security or other security deposit for any services provided by it to E
and that are not paid.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not affect the applicability or otherwise of
any other provision of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018 (including section 219 of that Act), or any other written law
or rule of law relating to insolvency.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Power to administer oaths, etc.

 95. For the purpose of holding any inquiry under this Act, any
authorised officer has power to administer oaths and affirmations and
is vested with the powers of a Magistrate for compelling the
attendance of witnesses, maintaining order and otherwise conducting
the inquiry, and any person summoned to attend any such inquiry is
legally bound so to attend.

Powers of arrest

 96.—(1) Any police officer or any person authorised in writing by
the Chief Executive of the Authority generally or in any particular
case may arrest any person committing within his or her view or who
he or she has reason to believe has committed any offence punishable
under this Act if —

       (a) the name and address of the person are unknown to him or
            her;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
133  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (b) the person declines to give the person’s name and address;
          or

     (c) there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and
         address given.

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained until the
person’s name and address are correctly ascertained.

 (3) A person arrested under this section must not be detained longer
than is necessary for bringing him or her before a court unless the
order of a court for his or her continued detention is obtained.

General exemption

 97. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, either
permanently or for such period as it thinks fit, exempt any person or
persons or any class of persons or premises from all or any provision
of this Act other than Parts 3 and 6.

Appeal to Minister

 98.—(1) A person aggrieved by —

       (a) any decision of the Authority in the exercise of any
            discretion vested in it by or under this Act, except for
            section 20A(2A), 26(1) or 31(2), (12) or (15);

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) anything contained in any code of practice or standard of
            performance issued or approved by the Authority under
            section 16;

       (c) any direction issued by the Authority under this Act; or

       (d) any notice issued by the Authority under section 5(2)(b),

may, except where provision has been made under this Act for an
appeal to be made to an Appeal Panel, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (2) Unless —

       (a) otherwise provided in this Act or allowed by the Minister;
            or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     134

(b) the appeal is against the imposition or the amount of a
     financial penalty,

an appeal under subsection (1) does not suspend the effect of the
decision, direction, code of practice or standard of performance to
which the appeal relates.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (3) Where the Minister considers that an appeal made to the
Minister involves issues of such nature or complexity that it ought to
be considered and determined by persons with particular technical or
other specialised knowledge, the Minister may, subject to
section 65(1), establish by direction an Appeal Panel comprising
one or more of such persons to consider and determine the appeal.

                                                                                                [18/2006; 42/2018]

 (4) Any person who makes an appeal to the Minister must provide
such information and documents as the Minister requires (whether for
the purpose of deciding if an Appeal Panel should be established or
for determining the appeal) and in such manner and within such
period as may be specified by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (5) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section —

(a) by confirming, varying or reversing any decision or
     direction of the Authority;

(b) (if applicable) by amending any code of practice or
     standard of performance issued or approved by the
     Authority to which the appeal relates; or

          (c) by directing the Authority to reconsider its decision or
              direction,

and the Minister’s decision is final.

                                                                   [42/2018]

 (6) Subsection (5) applies whether the appeal is lodged with or
made to the Minister before, on or after 3 May 2019.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

(7) The Minister may make regulations prescribing —

(a) the time and manner in which an appeal must be made
     under this section; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
135  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (b) the procedure to be adopted in determining any appeal
          under this section.

                                                                                                      [42/2018]

Service of documents

 99.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be given or served on any person, and any summons issued
by a court in connection with any offence under this Act may be
served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of his or her family at his or her last known place
            of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by affixing it to some conspicuous part of the person’s last
            known place of residence;

       (d) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business; or

       (e) where the person to be served is a body corporate —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
                   of the body corporate at its registered or principal
                   office; or

              (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the body
                   corporate at its registered or principal office.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons would, in the ordinary course of post, be delivered and in
proving service of the notice, order, document or summons, it is
sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the same was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     136

Recovery of fees and penalties

 100. Any fee or financial penalty to be paid to the Authority under
this Act may be recovered by it in any court of competent jurisdiction
as if it were a simple contract debt.

Payment into Consolidated Fund

 100A. All composition sums collected by the Authority under
section 93 and all financial penalties collected by the Authority under
this Act, must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

Keeping of register

 101.—(1) The Authority must, at such location and in such form as
it may determine, maintain a register for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) Subject to any direction under subsection (3), the Authority
must cause to be entered in the register —

       (a) the provisions of every licence or exemption granted to any
            person under Part 3 and the details of every licence or
            exemption revoked;

       (b) the details of any modification to the conditions of an
            electricity licence; and

       (c) any other matters as the Authority thinks fit.

 (3) If it appears to the Minister that the entry of any provision or
detail in the register would be against the public interest, he or she
may direct the Authority not to make the entry in the register.

 (4) The register must be available for inspection by the public
during such hours and subject to the payment of such fee as may be
specified by the Authority.

Effect of direction

 102.—(1) The obligation to comply with any direction made by the
Authority is a duty owed to any person who may be affected by a
contravention of it.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
137  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) Where a duty is owed by virtue of subsection (1) to any person,
any breach of the duty which causes that person to sustain loss or
damage is actionable at the suit or instance of that person.

 (3) In any proceedings brought against any person under
subsection (2), it is a defence for the person to prove that the
person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to
avoid contravening the relevant direction.

 (4) Without prejudice to any right which any person may have
under subsection (2) to bring civil proceedings in respect of any
contravention of any relevant direction, compliance with any such
direction is enforceable by civil proceedings by the Authority for an
injunction or for any other appropriate relief.

Regulations

 103.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for or in respect of every purpose which is
considered by the Authority necessary or convenient to be prescribed
for carrying out the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or in respect of all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) the prescribing of purposes for which the supply of
            electricity may be used;

       (b) the prevention and suppression of pollution,
            contamination, waste, misuse or use of electricity;

       (c) the prevention of misuse of, or damage to, apparatus and
            works belonging to a licensee in connection with the
            generation, transmission or supply of electricity;

       (d) the regulation and use of electricity meters and the
            prohibition of interference with, or damage to such
            meters or seals affixed thereto;

       (e) the prohibition of interference with, or damage to, electric
            appliances supplied by a licensee and plates or marks
            thereon;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     138

          (f) the regulation of the installation of electrical installations
              and alterations thereto and the submission of plans and
              specifications in respect thereof;

(g) the prescribing of materials of which conduits, pipes,
     cables and other apparatus and fittings for use in
     connection with the supply of electricity must be made,
     and of the size, shape, fitting, arrangement, connection,
     workmanship, examination, testing, position and method
     of cleaning them;

(h) the prescribing of the types of electric appliances to be
     used and the prohibition of the use of certain types thereof;

          (i) the regulation of the installation of electric appliances and
              the removal or transfer thereof;

          (j) the prescribing of the methods of charging consumers for
              electricity in the event of any meter becoming out of order;

          (k) the prescribing of terms and conditions applicable to a
              contract between the market support services licensee and
              consumer;

(ka) the prescribing of terms and conditions applicable to a
      contract for gas between a prescribed generation entity (as
      defined in section 41G) and the holder of a gas importer’s
      licence (central import) under the Gas Act 2001, including
      any term or condition providing for a minimum amount of
      gas that must be obtained by the prescribed generation
      entity (including different minimum amounts for different
      periods of time);

                                                                      [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

  (l) in relation to cable detection work licences —

          (i) the class or classes of the licences, the form and
              duration of such licences, the terms and conditions
              upon and the circumstances in which such licences
              may be granted, held, suspended, cancelled, altered,
              extended, renewed or replaced and the fees payable
              in respect thereof;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
139  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (ii) the qualifications and other requirements to be
          satisfied by applicants for such licences, the
          examination or testing of such applicants, the fees
          payable in respect of such examination or testing and
          the circumstances in and conditions on which such
          applicants may be exempted from such examination
          or testing; and

     (iii) the duties and responsibilities of licensed cable
           detection workers;

     (m) in relation to electrical or supply installations —

     (i) the intervals, times and manner at or in which any
         electrical or supply installation must be inspected,
         the notice (if any) to be given in relation to
         inspections and the preparations to be made by the
         licensees of such installations and the management
         for such inspections;

     (ii) the control of standards for electrical machinery,
          electric lines, wiring, fittings, accessories,
          appliances, consuming devices, control and
          protective gears associated with the generation,
          transmission, distribution and application of energy
          and the manner in which such machines, lines,
          wiring, fittings and apparatus must be erected, fixed,
          protected, inspected, tested and maintained;

     (iii) the approval and control of electrical apparatuses,
           appliances, equipment and materials with the object
           of securing their safety in service and the prohibition
           of the use, sale or hire of all electrical apparatuses,
           appliances, equipment and materials which are in the
           opinion of the Authority unsafe;

     (iv) the fees to be paid for electrical or supply installation
          licences and any other fees which are required to be
          prescribed;

     (v) the forms and contents of, and the conditions to be
          prescribed in electrical or supply installation licences

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     140

          and the conditions for suspension, extension and
          revocation of such licences and the manner in which
          applications for such licences must be made;

          (vi) the manner of holding inquiries under section 94(5);
               and

          (vii) the means to be adopted, whether by prohibition or
                otherwise, to prevent or abate any nuisance or
                pollution likely to arise or arising from the
                working of any electrical or supply installation or
                apparatus;

(n) in relation to electrical worker licences —

          (i) the class or classes of the licences, the form and
              duration of such licences, the terms and conditions
              upon and the circumstances in which such licences
              may be granted, held, suspended, cancelled, altered,
              extended, renewed or replaced and the fees payable
              in respect thereof;

          (ii) the qualifications and other requirements to be
               satisfied by applicants for such licences, the
               examination or testing of such applicants, the fees
               payable in respect of such examination or testing and
               the circumstances in and conditions on which such
               applicants may be exempted from such examination
               or testing; and

          (iii) the register to be kept of all electrical worker licences
                issued under this Act, the particulars to be entered in
                the register and the publication of the names of
                licensees;

(o) the protection of the public from dangers arising from the
     generation, transmission or supply of electricity, from the
     use of electricity supplied from the installation,
     maintenance or use of any electric line or electrical
     plant; and the elimination or reduction of risks of
     personal injury, or damage to property or interference
     with its use arising therefrom;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
141  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

     (p) the prohibition of the supply or transmission of electricity
          except by means of a system approved by the Authority;

     (q) the prescribing of the form of notice to be given to the
          Authority of accidents and of failures of the supply or
          transmission of electricity;

     (r) the prescribing of fees and charges and their method of
         payment for the purposes of this Act;

      (ra) anything required to be prescribed or in relation to which
            regulations may be made under this Act;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (s) the prescribing of any service provided in connection with
            the performance of any function or duty of the Authority,
            for which the Authority may charge a price by way of
            agreement with the person to whom the service is provided
            (instead of prescribing the price).

                                                                                                           [42/2018]

 (3) The Authority may in making any regulations provide that any
person who contravenes the regulations shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) All such regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

Incorporation by reference
 103A.—(1) The regulations made under this Act may apply, adopt

or incorporate by reference —
       (a) wholly or partially;
       (b) with or without any addition, omission or substitution; or
       (c) specifically or by reference,

any code of practice, standard, requirement, specification or other
document that relates to any subject matter of any regulations made

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     142

under this Act (called in this section the material), as in force or
published at a particular time or as in force or published from time to
time.

 (2) The material mentioned in subsection (1) may be material
issued by the Authority, or material issued by any standards setting
organisation, or other organisation or person.

 (3) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated by reference in
the regulations under subsection (1) is to be treated for all purposes as
forming part of the regulations.

 (4) Unless otherwise provided in the regulations, where the
material is applied, adopted or incorporated by reference as in
force or published from time to time, every amendment to the
material that is made by the organisation or person that issued the
material is to be treated as being a part of those regulations.

 (5) Where any material is applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any provision of any regulations, the Authority must give
notice in the Gazette stating —

(a) that the material is applied, adopted or incorporated in the
     regulations, and the date from which the material is so
     applied, adopted or incorporated;

(b) that the material is available for inspection, free of charge,
     and the place at which such material may be inspected;

          (c) that copies of the material can be purchased, and the place
              where the material can be purchased; and

(d) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
     details of where or how the material can be accessed or
     obtained.

 (6) In addition, the Authority must cause a copy of every material
applied, adopted or incorporated by reference in the regulations under
subsection (1), to be made available for inspection by members of the
public without charge at any of its offices during normal office hours.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
143  Electricity Act 2001                                     2020 Ed.

 (7) To avoid doubt, any part of the material that is not applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in the regulations under
subsection (1) has no legislative effect.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

Advisory guidelines

 103B.—(1) The Authority may issue advisory guidelines for the
purposes of providing practical guidance or certainty in respect of any
one or more requirements imposed by or under this Act.

 (2) The Authority may consult with such person as the Authority
thinks fit for the purpose of preparing any advisory guidelines under
subsection (1).

 (3) The advisory guidelines may —

       (a) be of general or specific application; or

       (b) specify that different provisions of the advisory guidelines
            apply to different circumstances, or are applicable to
            different persons or classes of persons.

 (4) The Authority may amend or revoke the whole or part of any
advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1).

 (5) Advisory guidelines issued or amended under this section do
not have any legislative effect.

 (6) Where, in any administrative proceedings commenced in
connection with this Act, any provision in this Act to which any
advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1) relate is alleged to
have been contravened, then —

       (a) compliance with such guidelines; or

       (b) a contravention of or failure to comply with, whether by act
            or omission, such guidelines,

may be relied upon by any party to those proceedings as tending to
negative or establish the contravention which is in question in those
proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Electricity Act 2001                                     144

Repeal

 104.—(1) All acts done by the Public Utilities Board under the
repealed Electrical Workers and Contractors Licensing Act (Cap. 89,
1985 Revised Edition) before 1 December 2002 continue to remain
valid and applicable as though done by the Authority under this Act,
until such time as invalidated, revoked, cancelled or otherwise
determined by the Authority.

 (2) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Electrical
Workers and Contractors Licensing Act (Cap. 89, 1985 Revised
Edition) and in force immediately before 1 December 2002, so far as
it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continues in force
as if made under this Act until it is revoked or repealed by subsidiary
legislation made under this Act.

Reference in any written law

 105.—(1) In any written law, a reference to “public electricity
licensee” is to be construed as a reference to an “electricity licensee”
under this Act.

 (2) The repealed Electrical Workers and Contractors Licensing Act
(Cap. 89, 1985 Revised Edition) and any subsidiary legislation made
thereunder is to be administered by the Energy Market Authority of
Singapore, and any references to the Board in that Act and its
subsidiary legislation are to be read as references to that Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                         ELECTRICITY ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                 PART 1
      ELECTRICAL WORKERS AND CONTRACTORS

                          LICENSING ACT
           (CHAPTER 89, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 13 of 1974 — Electrical Workers and Contractors Licensing
                           Act, 1974

Bill                  : 13/1974

First Reading         : 20 March 1974

Second Reading        : 28 August 1974

Notice of Amendments  : 28 August 1974

Third Reading         : 28 August 1974

Commencement          : 1 January 1975

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Electrical Workers and Contractors
                                    Licensing Act (Chapter 89)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

3. G.N. No. S 22/1989 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
                                 Order 1989

Operation             : 30 March 1987

4. Act 17 of 1988 — Electrical Workers and Contractors Licensing
                           (Amendment) Act 1988

Bill                  : 14/1988

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                      ii

First Reading         : 29 June 1988

Second and Third Readings : 29 July 1988

Commencement          : 16 September 1988

5. Act 25 of 1993 — Electrical Workers and Contractors Licensing
                           (Amendment) Act 1993

Bill                  : 19/1993

First Reading         : 28 May 1993

Second and Third Readings : 30 July 1993

Commencement          : 10 September 1993

6. Act 26 of 1995 — Public Utilities Act 1995
   (Amendments made by section 131(3) read with paragraph 4 of the
   Fourth Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 20/1995

First Reading         : 25 May 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 July 1995

Commencement          : 1 October 1995 (section 131(3) read
                            with paragraph 4 of the
                            Fourth Schedule)

                            PART 2
                ELECTRICITY ACT 2001
                (2020 REVISED EDITION)

7. Act 10 of 2001 — Electricity Act 2001

Bill                  : 9/2001

First Reading         : 22 February 2001

Second Reading        : 16 March 2001

Notice of Amendments  : 16 March 2001

Third Reading         : 16 March 2001

Commencement          : 1 April 2001 (except Parts III to X,
                            sections 94 to 104 and section 105(1)
                            and (2))

8. 2002 Revised Edition — Electricity Act (Chapter 89A)

Operation             : 31 July 2002

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
               iii

9. Act 10 of 2001 — Electricity Act 2001

Bill           : 9/2001

First Reading  : 22 February 2001

Second and Third Readings : 16 March 2001

Commencement   : 1 December 2002 (sections 82, 89
                     to 93, 103 and 104)
                     1 January 2003 (Part III (with the
                     exception of section 21(2) and (3)),
                     Parts IV to VIII, sections 67 to 81,
                     83 to 88, 94 to 102 and 105(1) and (2))

10. Act 18 of 2006 — Electricity (Amendment) Act 2006

Bill           : 11/2006

First Reading  : 27 February 2006

Second and Third Readings : 3 April 2006

Commencement   : 1 May 2006

11. Act 42 of 2018 — Electricity (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill           : 35/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 3 May 2019

12. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 473 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 473)

13. Act 13 of 2021 — Land Transport Authority of Singapore (Amendment)
                            Act 2021

     (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2021

First Reading  : 5 April 2021

Second and Third Readings : 11 May 2021

Commencement   : 29 July 2021 (section 3)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                          iv

14. 2020 Revised Edition — Electricity Act 2001

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

15. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement              : 13 January 2022

16. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 18/2021

First Reading             : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement              : 1 April 2022

17. Act 43 of 2022 — Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 36/2022

First Reading             : 9 November 2022

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 2022

Commencement              : 8 December 2023

18. Act 37 of 2021 — Energy (Resilience Measures and Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 4 October 2021
                                (Bill No. 34/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 2 November 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 January 2022
                                1 September 2025

19. Act 27 of 2024 — Energy Transition Measures and Other Amendments
                             Act 2024

Bill                      : 27/2024

First Reading             : 6 August 2024

Second and Third Readings : 9 September 2024

Commencement              : 1 July 2025
                                1 September 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
.                                 v
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
COMPARATIVE TABLE
ELECTRICITY ACT 2001

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                         2002 Ed.
1                               1—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
4—(2)                              (2)
                                4—(1A)
   (3)
   (4)                             (2)
   (5)                             (3)
   (6)                             (4)
   (7)                             (5)
   (8)                             (5A)
   (9)                             (6)
—                                  (7)
—                               9—(9) [Deleted by Act 18 of 2006]
—                               21—(2) [Deleted by Act 18 of 2006]
21—(2)                             (3) [Deleted by Act 18 of 2006]
   (3)                             (4)
30B—(2)                            (5)
   (3)                          30B—(1A)
   (4)                             (2)
   (5)                             (3)
   (6)                             (4)
   (7)                             (5)
   (8)                             (6)
   (9)                             (6A)
   (10)                            (7)
                                   (8)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                   ii

         2020 Ed.           2002 Ed.

   (11)               (9)
31—(2)             31—(1A)

   (3)                (1B)
   (4)                (2)
   (5)                (3)
   (6)                (4)
   (7)                (5)
   (8)                (5A)
   (9)                (6)
   (10)               (7)
   (11)               (8)
   (12)               (9)
   (13)               (10)
   (14)               (11)
   (15)               (12)
   (16)               (13)
   (17)               (14)
   (18)               (15)
46—(2)             46—(1A)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
59—(6)             59—(5A)
   (7)                (6)
66—(10)            66—(9A)
   (11)               (10)
   (12)               (11)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                 2020 Ed.       iii
79—(3)
                                                    2002 Ed.
   (4)                            79—(2A)
   (5)
82—(2)                               (3)
   (3)                               (4)
   (4)                            82—(1A)
   (5)                               (1B)
   (6)                               (1C)
   (7)                               (1D)
   (8)                               (2)
   (9)                               (3)
   (10)                              (4)
—                                    (5)
—                                    (6)
—                                 85—(2) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]
—                                    (3) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]
—                                 93—(3) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]
98—(2)                            98—(1A) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]
   (3)                               (1B) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2018]
   (4)                               (1C)
   (5)                               (2)
   (6)                               (3)
   (7)                               (4)
[Omitted as having had effect]       (5)
104—(1)                              (6)
   (2)                            104—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]       (2)
105—(1)                              (3)
                                  105—(1)
                                     (2)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
              2020 Ed.  iv        2002 Ed.
(2)                          (3)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
