THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               DISTRICT COOLING ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                                2020 Ed.

District Cooling Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                               ADMINISTRATION

3. Authority to administer Act
4. Powers of Authority
5. Furnishing of documents and information to Authority
6. Power of Authority to enter upon any premises

                                       PART 3

       SERVICE AREAS FOR DISTRICT COOLING SERVICES

7. Declaration of service areas
8. Changes affecting service areas
9. Notification of changes

                                        PART 4

             LICENSING OF DISTRICT COOLING SERVICES

10. Licence authorising provision of district cooling services
11. Restriction on transfer of licence
12. Modification of conditions of licence
13. Suspension or cancellation of licence
14. Codes of practice
15. Compliance with codes of practice
16. Directions affecting licensee
17. Exclusion of liability for Authority
18. General duties of licensee
19. Price fixed by licensee

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                   2

Section
   20. Keeping of register by Authority

                                        PART 5

                           CONTROL OF LICENSEES

21. Special administration order
22. Special administration order made on application by Authority
23. Remuneration and expenses of appointed person

                                        PART 6

                   MATTERS RELATING TO LICENSEES

24. Power to enter upon public land for purposes of district cooling
         system

25. Power to enter upon other land for purposes of examination of
         district cooling system

26. Savings of wayleave agreement
27. Inspection, maintenance and repair of district cooling system
28. Removal or alteration of district cooling system
29. Provision of space or facility by developer or owner of building
30. Apparatus not fixture and not subject to distress
31. Power to discontinue provision of district cooling services in

         emergency

                                        PART 7

                                      OFFENCES

32. Prohibition of unlicensed provision of district cooling services
33. Falsely pretending to be employee of Authority or licensee
34. Penalty for obstructing Authority in performance of duties
35. Making of false statement, etc.
36. Jurisdiction of court
37. Police officer or authorised officer may require evidence of

         identity in certain cases
38. Duty to enquire before excavation
39. General penalties
40. Composition of offences
41. Offences committed by bodies corporate, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
3        District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

         PART 8

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Appeal to Minister
         General exemption
   42.   Service of documents
   43.   Regulations
   44.   Incorporation by reference
   45.   Advisory guidelines
   46.
   47.

An Act to license and regulate the provision of district cooling
  services in service areas.

                                                                 [1 April 2001]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the District Cooling Act 2001.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “air conditioning” means the process of treating air so as to
         control simultaneously its temperature, humidity, cleanliness
         and distribution to meet the requirements of the conditioned
         space;

      “apparatus” means any appliance or equipment including any
         machine, device, fitting or any accessory thereof used for the
         purpose of or in connection with the provision or use of
         district cooling services;

      “authorised officer” means any person authorised by the
         Authority under section 3(2);

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                4

“Authority” means the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
   established under the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
   Act 2001;

“connection point” means a point, situated in or in immediate
   proximity to the premises to be provided with district cooling
   services, where a district cooling system is connected to an
   installation;

“consumer” means a person who contracts with a licensee for
   the provision of district cooling services;

“coolant” means chilled water or any other medium used for the
   purpose of providing district cooling services;

“cooling load” means the air conditioning load of the
   consumer’s installation;

“district cooling pipe” means any pipe lying between the chiller
   or similar cooling unit of a district cooling system and a
   connection point;

“district cooling service” means the sale of coolant for space
   cooling in a service area by a licensee operating a central
   plant capable of supplying coolant via pipe to more than one
   building in the service area;

“district cooling system” means the whole of the facility used for
   or in connection with the provision of district cooling
   services comprising the district cooling plant, one or more
   chillers or similar cooling units, district cooling pipes and
   other apparatus including metering equipment but excluding
   the installation;

“information memorandum” means a document to be submitted
   to the Authority disclosing the information stipulated in
   section 10(4)(c);

“installation” means the whole of the consumer’s cooling
   system up to the connection point where it is connected to
   the district cooling system but does not include the metering
   equipment;

“licence” means a licence granted under section 10;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
5  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

   “licensee”, in relation to any service area, means a person who is
      authorised by a licence to carry out all or any of the functions
      of providing district cooling services to the service area;

   “metering equipment” means any apparatus owned by the
      licensee used in or in connection with a district cooling
      system for the purpose of determining the cooling load of an
      installation;

   “modifications” includes additions, alterations and omissions;

   “occupier” means the person in occupation of any premises and
      includes the person having the charge, management or
      control of the premises either on the person’s own account
      or as agent of another person;

   “premises” includes buildings, structures, streets, lands, waters,
      tenements, easements of any tenure, whether State land or
      not, whether open or enclosed, whether built on or not,
      whether public or private, and whether maintained under
      statutory authority or not;

   “public authority” means the Government or any statutory body;

   “public land” means land under the ownership or possession of
      any public authority;

   “public safety” means the obviation of danger to the general
      public, to public property and to roads, streets, railways,
      canals, docks, wharves, piers, bridges, gas works, water
      works and their appurtenances and telegraphic, telephonic
      and other electrical signalling lines;

   “regulations” means regulations made under this Act;

   “service area” means any area declared under section 7.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                6

                             PART 2

          ADMINISTRATION

Authority to administer Act

 3.—(1) The Authority is charged with the general administration of
this Act and the exercise of the functions and duties imposed on the
Authority by this Act.

 (2) The Authority may authorise any person to assist it in the
exercise of its functions and duties under this Act, either generally or
in a particular case.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is the function and duty
of the Authority —

(a) to exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of
     the provision of district cooling services;

(b) to protect the interests of consumers in respect of —

          (i) the prices charged and other terms of supply of
              district cooling services;

          (ii) the quality of district cooling services; and

          (iii) the continuity and reliability of district cooling
                services; and

          (c) to issue or approve and from time to time review codes of
              practice and other standards of performance in connection
              with the provision of district cooling services.

 (4) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Authority, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court.

Powers of Authority

 4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority may
carry on any activities that appear to the Authority to be
advantageous, necessary or convenient for it to carry on for or in
connection with the discharge of its functions and duties under this
Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
7  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

 (2) The Authority must furnish the Minister with such information
with respect to its activities in such manner and at such times as the
Minister may require.

Furnishing of documents and information to Authority

 5.—(1) The Authority or any authorised officer may by notice
require any person to furnish to the Authority or the authorised
officer, within any period specified in the notice, all documents or
information relating to all matters that may be required by the
Authority for the purposes of this Act and as are within the
knowledge of that person or in that person’s custody or under that
person’s control.

 (2) Any person who, on being required by notice under
subsection (1) to furnish any document or information, fails to
comply with any requirement of the notice shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
            which the person has been required by any notice under
            subsection (1) to furnish; or

       (b) in furnishing any estimate, return or other information
            required of the person under any notice under
            subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
            knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly
            makes any statement which is false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

Power of Authority to enter upon any premises

 6.—(1) The Authority may, for the purposes of this Act, by its
employees, agents or contractors, enter at all reasonable hours (or at
any time in the event of an emergency) into and upon any premises
for the purpose of performing its duties authorised by this Act without
being liable to pay any person any fee, charge or expense or being
subject to any legal proceedings or molestation on account of the
entry or of anything done in any part of the premises under this Act.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                8

 (2) Except in the event of an emergency, such employee, agent or
contractor may not enter upon any premises under this section
unless —

(a) not less than 6 hours’ notice of the intended entry has been
     given to the occupier; and

(b) if required to do so, he or she has produced evidence of his
     or her authority.

                                    PART 3

    SERVICE AREAS FOR DISTRICT COOLING SERVICES

Declaration of service areas

 7.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, declare an
area to be a service area where district cooling services are to be
provided to the area, on any terms and conditions that the Minister
thinks fit.

 (2) A notification under subsection (1) must state that a plan of the
service area may be inspected at any place that is specified in the
notification.

 (3) Unless exempted, the occupier of every premises within a
service area requiring air conditioning must use the district cooling
services provided by a licensee if the services are available within the
service area.

 (4) An owner or occupier of any premises within a service area may
apply in writing to the Authority for exemption from subsection (3)
and the decision of the Authority is final.

 (5) A licensee must not refuse to provide district cooling services to
any premises within the licensee’s service area.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (3) or (5) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
9  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

Changes affecting service areas

 8.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, revoke
any declaration made under section 7(1) on any terms and conditions
that the Minister thinks fit.

 (2) The Minister may modify any term or condition imposed under
section 7.

Notification of changes

 9.—(1) Before exercising any power under section 8, the Minister
must give notice to any licensee in the service area concerned —

       (a) stating the Minister’s proposal to revoke any declaration
            made under section 7(1);

       (b) stating the Minister’s proposal to make any modification to
            a declaration made under section 7(1) in the manner as
            specified in the notice; and

       (c) specifying the time (not being less than 28 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which
            written representations with respect to the matter in
            paragraph (a) or (b) may be made.

 (2) The decision of the Minister after consideration of any written
representation made under subsection (1)(c) is final.

 (3) If no written representation is received by the Minister within
the time specified under subsection (1)(c) or if any written
representation made under that subsection is subsequently
withdrawn, the Minister may forthwith carry out the proposed
matters specified in the notice under subsection (1).

                                    PART 4
         LICENSING OF DISTRICT COOLING SERVICES
Licence authorising provision of district cooling services
 10.—(1) A person must not provide district cooling services to any
service area unless the person is authorised to do so by a licence.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                10

 (2) Every licence granted or renewed under this section must be in
such form and for such period and may contain such terms and
conditions as the Authority may determine.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), a licence may be granted to any
person, class of persons or a particular person, and may include
conditions requiring the licensee —

(a) to prepare itself to deal with any public emergency;

(b) to pay to the Authority a fee for the grant of the licence or
     to pay to it periodic fees for the duration of the licence, or
     both, of any amount that may be determined by or under
     the regulations or licence;

          (c) to appoint technical and financial auditors approved by the
              Authority;

(d) to comply with any direction given by the Authority;

          (e) to comply with the standards and requirements stipulated
              in any code of practice and any other standard of
              performance applicable to the licensee; and

          (f) to do or not to do things that are specified in the licence or
              are of a description so specified.

 (4) Conditions included in a licence may contain all or any of the
following:

(a) provisions for the conditions to cease to have effect or be
     modified at such times, in any manner and in any
     circumstances that may be specified in or determined by
     or under the conditions;

(b) provisions regulating the prices to be charged by the
     licensee including —

          (i) the fixing of prices or the rate of increase or decrease
              in prices;

          (ii) the fixing of a maximum price or maximum rate of
               increase or minimum rate of decrease in the
               maximum price;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
11  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

    (iii) the fixing of an average price or an average rate of
          increase or decrease in the average price;

    (iv) the setting of price policies or principles;

    (v) the setting of prices with reference to a general price
         index, the cost of production, a rate of return on
         assets employed or any other specified factors; and

    (vi) the setting of prices with reference to the quantity,
         location, period, temperature of coolant, or other
         specified factors relevant to the provision of district
         cooling services;

    (c) provisions for the periodic disclosure of information, by
        way of an information memorandum, including —

    (i) reports on the management of the district cooling
        services;

    (ii) reports on asset management of the district cooling
         system;

    (iii) reports on price comparison of the district cooling
          service with the conventional air conditioning
          systems;

    (iv) reports on performance comparison of the district
         cooling services with the conventional air
         conditioning systems;

    (v) security measures; and

    (vi) reports on financial matters and accounts of the
         licensee;

    (d) provisions requiring the licensee to provide a sinking fund
         for asset management.

 (5) Any provision included in a licence under subsection (4)(a) has
effect in addition to the provision made by this Part with respect to the
modification of the conditions of a licence.

 (6) Any fee required to be paid to the Authority under
subsection (3)(b) may be recovered by it in any court of competent
jurisdiction as if it were a simple contract debt.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                12

 (7) The grant and renewal of licences under this section are at the
Authority’s discretion.

 (8) Any person who is aggrieved by a refusal of the Authority to
grant or renew a licence may, within 14 days of the refusal, appeal to
the Minister whose decision is final.

Restriction on transfer of licence

 11. A licence is not transferable and any purported transfer of any
licence is void.

Modification of conditions of licence

 12.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may modify the
conditions of a licence.

 (2) Before making any modification to the conditions of a licence
under this section, the Authority must give notice to the licensee
concerned —

       (a) stating that it proposes to make the modification in the
            manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (not being less than 28 days from the
            date of service of notice on the licensee) within which
            written representations with respect to the proposed
            modification may be made.

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation under
subsection (2)(b), the Authority must consider the representation
and may —

       (a) reject the representation; or

       (b) withdraw or amend the proposed modification in
            accordance with the representation or otherwise,

and, in either case, the Authority must thereupon issue a direction in
writing to the licensee concerned requiring that effect be given to the
proposed modification specified in the notice or to such modification
as subsequently amended by the Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
13  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

 (4) Any licensee who is aggrieved by a direction of the Authority
under subsection (3) may, within 14 days of the receipt by the licensee
of the direction, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (5) The Authority must not enforce a direction given under
subsection (3) —

    (a) during the period mentioned in subsection (4); and

    (b) whilst the appeal of any licensee is under consideration by
         the Minister.

 (6) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the time specified under subsection (2) or if any written
representation made under that subsection is subsequently
withdrawn, the modification takes effect as specified in the notice
given under that subsection.

Suspension or cancellation of licence

 13.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) a licensee is contravening, or is likely to contravene or has
            contravened, any of the conditions of its licence, any code
            of practice or other standard of performance applicable to
            the licensee, any of the provisions of this Act or any
            direction issued by the Authority to, or applicable to, that
            licensee;

       (b) a licensee has gone into compulsory or voluntary
            liquidation other than for the purpose of amalgamation
            or reconstruction;

       (c) a licensee has made any assignment to, or composition
            with, its creditors; or

       (d) the public interest or security of Singapore so requires,

the Authority may, by written notice and without any liability for
compensation, do all or any of the following:

       (e) suspend or cancel its licence for any period that the
            Authority thinks fit;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                14

          (f) require the licensee to replace its management with
              appointees approved by the Authority;

(g) require the licensee to comply with any direction given by
     the Authority relating to or in connection with the district
     cooling system;

(h) require the licensee to furnish performance bonds,
     banker’s guarantees and any other securities for such
     amounts and on such terms as the Authority sees fit;

          (i) impose a financial penalty not exceeding 10% of the
              annual turnover derived from the provisions of district
              cooling services by the licensee in Singapore as
              ascertained from its latest audited accounts.

 (2) Any licensee who is aggrieved by any decision of the Authority
under subsection (1) may, within 14 days after the date of the notice in
writing mentioned in that subsection, appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

Codes of practice

 14.—(1) The Authority may issue or approve and from time to time
modify codes of practice and other standards of performance in
connection with the provision of district cooling services.

 (2) If any provision in any code of practice or other standard of
performance issued or approved by the Authority is inconsistent with
this Act, the provision has, to the extent of its inconsistency, no effect.

 (3) The Authority may, in any licence, exempt any licensee from
any provision in any code of practice or other standard of
performance issued or approved by the Authority generally or for
any time that the Authority may specify.

 (4) Any code of practice issued or approved by the Authority is
deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

Compliance with codes of practice

 15. Every licensee must comply with the codes of practice and
other standards of performance issued or approved under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
15  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

section 14(1) in connection with the provision of district cooling
services.

Directions affecting licensee

 16. The Authority may give directions for or in relation to standards
of performance and procedures to be observed by licensees and other
persons for or in respect of the following:

       (a) the continuity and reliability of the provision of district
            cooling services to the consumers;

       (b) the security of the provision of district cooling services to
            the consumers;

       (c) the interests of public safety.

Exclusion of liability for Authority

 17. Despite the grant of any licence, the Authority shall not be liable
in any circumstances for any loss, damage or cost sustained by any
person as a result of any default, negligence, breach or wrongful act
or omission of any licensee or agent, employee or independent
contractor of the licensee.

General duties of licensee

 18.—(1) It is the duty of a licensee to —

       (a) maintain a reliable, efficient, co-ordinated and economical
            district cooling system in accordance with any codes of
            practice or other standards of performance that may be
            issued or approved by the Authority under section 14(1);
            and

       (b) ensure public safety in relation to the provision of district
            cooling services.

 (2) A licensee must not do or omit to do any act which will
adversely affect, directly or indirectly, the reliability and stability of
district cooling services provided to consumers.

 (3) A contravention of subsection (1) or (2) is to be dealt with in
accordance with section 13.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                16

Price fixed by licensee

 19.—(1) Subject to this section and section 18, the prices to be
charged by a licensee and to be paid by consumers for the provision of
district cooling services must be in accordance with any prices that
may be fixed from time to time by the licensee in accordance with the
conditions of its licence.

 (2) In fixing prices of district cooling services, a licensee must
neither show undue preference as between persons similarly situated
nor exercise undue discrimination as between persons similarly
situated, having regard to the place and time of supply and the
quantity supplied.

 (3) In addition to the prices as may be fixed by a licensee under
subsection (1), the licensee must also review the prices as directed by
the Authority from time to time.

Keeping of register by Authority

 20.—(1) The Authority must, at such premises and in such form as
it may determine, maintain a register for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The Authority must cause to be entered in the register the
particulars of —

       (a) every licence granted to a particular person;

       (b) every modification or revocation of a licence; and

       (c) any other matter that the Authority thinks fit.

 (3) The register must be available for inspection by the public
during such hours and subject to the payment of such fee as may be
specified by the Authority.

                                    PART 5

                       CONTROL OF LICENSEES

Special administration order

 21.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made in accordance with section 22 in relation to a licensee and
directing that, during the period for which the order is in force, the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
17  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

affairs, business and property of the licensee is to be managed by any
person appointed by the Minister for the achievement of the security
and reliability of the provision of district cooling services.

 (2) Any person appointed by the Minister under subsection (1) is
deemed an agent of the licensee and the licensee is responsible for
that person’s acts or defaults.

 (3) The Minister may make regulations to give effect to this Part,
including making provision for applying, omitting or modifying the
provisions of Parts 7 and 9 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018 where a special administration order is made.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Special administration order made on application by
Authority

 22.—(1) If an application is made to the Minister by the Authority
and the Minister is satisfied that any one or more of the grounds
specified in subsection (2) is satisfied in relation to a licensee, the
Minister may make any one or both of the following orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to that licensee;

       (b) an order requiring the licensee forthwith to take any action
            or to do or not to do any act or thing in relation to its
            business as the Minister may consider necessary.

 (2) The grounds mentioned in subsection (1) are that —

       (a) the licensee has failed to discharge or has not discharged to
            the Minister’s satisfaction the obligations imposed by the
            Authority on the licensee;

       (b) the licensee has had its licence suspended or cancelled
            under section 13; or

       (c) it is in the public interest.

 (3) Notice of any order under subsection (1) must be given
forthwith by the Authority to such persons and in such manner as
it thinks fit.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                18

(4) Where a licensee is a company —

(a) the licensee may only be wound up voluntarily with the
     consent of the Authority;

(b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to the licensee;

          (c) no step may be taken by any person to enforce any security
              over the licensee’s property unless that person has served
              on the Authority not less than 14 days’ notice of that
              person’s intention to take that step; and

      (d) no application under section 210 of the Companies
           Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
           and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by any person in
           relation to the licensee, unless that person has served
           14 days’ written notice of that person’s intention to make
           the application on the Authority.

                                                                                                         [40/2018]

(5) The Authority must be a party to —

      (a) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
           Dissolution Act 2018 or Part 11 of the Variable Capital
           Companies Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
           affairs of a company that is a licensee; or

                                                                                   [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

      (b) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
           section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
           Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
           relation to a company that is a licensee.

                                                                                                         [40/2018]

(6) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

Remuneration and expenses of appointed person

 23. The Minister may at any time (whether or not the appointment
of the person has terminated) fix the remuneration and expenses to be
paid by a licensee to any person appointed by the Minister under
section 21(1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
19  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

    PART 6

    MATTERS RELATING TO LICENSEES

Power to enter upon public land for purposes of district cooling
system

 24.—(1) For the purpose of providing any district cooling service to
a service area, a licensee or any person authorised by the licensee
may —

    (a) at any reasonable time, enter upon any public land within
         the service area;

    (b) subject to the approval of the relevant public authority,
         erect in or upon the public land such part of the district
         cooling system or excavate such trenches as may be
         necessary or proper for the purposes of providing the
         district cooling service;

    (c) carry out all necessary works in connection therewith; and

    (d) in the course thereof, fell or lop trees, remove vegetation
         and do all other things necessary for that purpose.

 (2) Where any work mentioned in subsection (1) interferes with any
building, growing tree or crop, the licensee must pay compensation to
any person interested for any damage or financial loss that may be
caused thereby.

 (3) Where the public land is occupied under a licence for temporary
occupation, the compensation must be paid to the occupant under the
licence.

Power to enter upon other land for purposes of examination of
district cooling system

 25.—(1) Subject to this section, where it is necessary to do so for
the purposes of providing district cooling services to any service area,
a licensee or any person authorised by the licensee may —

       (a) at any reasonable time enter upon any land within the
            service area, other than public land, and may survey and
            take levels and do all other necessary acts preparatory to
            the provision of the service; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                20

(b) lay, place or carry on, and erect in or upon any land within
     the service area, other than public land, such part of the
     district cooling system as may be necessary or proper for
     such purposes and may take such other action as may be
     necessary to render such part of the district cooling system
     safe and efficient,

paying compensation to any person interested for any damage or
financial loss that may be caused thereby.

 (2) Any compensation payable under subsection (1) may include an
annual payment for land or other immovable property used for the
purpose of the district cooling system.

 (3) A licensee does not acquire any right other than that of a user
only in respect of any land or property under, over, along, across, in or
upon which the licensee places any part of a district cooling system
under this section.

 (4) A licensee is, in the exercise of its powers under this section,
subject to the provisions of the Parks and Trees Act 2005.

 (5) Before entering upon any land for any of the purposes specified
in subsection (1), a licensee must give at least 14 days’ notice stating
as fully and as accurately as possible the nature and extent of the acts
intended to be done.

 (6) The owner or occupier of the land may, within 14 days of the
receipt of the notice mentioned in subsection (5), lodge a written
objection with the Authority and the Authority must specify a date to
inquire into such objection.

 (7) If no objection is lodged within the time specified in
subsection (5), the licensee may forthwith enter upon the land and
do all or any of the acts specified in the notice given under that
subsection.

 (8) If an objection is lodged and is not withdrawn before the date
fixed for the hearing thereof, the Authority must hold an inquiry,
giving each party an opportunity to be heard.

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), upon the conclusion of the inquiry,
the Authority may authorise, either unconditionally or subject to any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
21  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

terms, conditions and stipulations that it thinks fit, any of the acts
mentioned in the notice given under subsection (5) to be carried out.

 (10) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Authority under
this section may, within 14 days of the conclusion of the inquiry,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Savings of wayleave agreement

 26. Nothing in section 25 —

       (a) affects the right of a licensee to enter into an agreement,
            commonly known as a wayleave agreement, with the
            owner or occupier of any land for the purpose of laying,
            placing, carrying or erecting any part of a district cooling
            system on the land;

       (b) affects any such wayleave agreement subsisting
            immediately before 1 April 2001; or

       (c) affects the right of a licensee to negotiate the use of land or
            facilities belonging to the State or any other person.

Inspection, maintenance and repair of district cooling system

 27.—(1) Where it is necessary to do so for the purpose of
inspecting, maintaining or repairing any part of a district cooling
system or for the purpose of carrying out any function conferred on a
licensee under this Act or under any licence granted under section 10,
a licensee or any person authorised by the licensee may, after giving
7 days’ prior notice to the owner or occupier of any land —

       (a) at any reasonable time, enter upon any land or building
            within the service area, whether or not that part of the
            district cooling system has been laid, placed, carried or
            erected on, under, upon or over the land or building;

       (b) carry out all necessary inspection, maintenance or repair;
            and

       (c) in the course thereof, fell or lop trees, remove vegetation
            and do all other things necessary for the purpose,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                22

causing as little damage as possible and paying compensation to any
person adversely affected for any damage that may be caused thereby.

 (2) Where work is required to be carried out in the event of an
operational emergency arising from any fault in a district cooling
system, pipe or plant, no prior notice is required to be given to the
owner or occupier of any land under subsection (1).

Removal or alteration of district cooling system

 28.—(1) Where any part of a district cooling system has been laid,
placed, carried or erected on, under, upon or over any land, and any
owner of the land desires to use the land in such manner as to render it
necessary or convenient that that part of the district cooling system
should be removed to another part of the land, or to a higher or lower
level, or altered in form, the owner of the land may require the
licensee to remove or alter that part of the district cooling system
accordingly.

 (2) If the licensee fails to comply with the requisition, the owner of
the land may apply in writing to the Authority and the Authority must,
as soon as practicable, specify a date to inquire into the facts of the
case.

 (3) Upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Authority may require,
subject to any terms, conditions and stipulations that it thinks fit, the
removal or alteration of such part of the district cooling system.

 (4) Where any owner of any land desires to use the land for the
purposes of development and the owner considers it necessary that
any part of a district cooling system that has been laid, placed, carried
or erected on the land should be removed from the land, the owner
may request the licensee to remove that part from the land.

 (5) Where the licensee undertakes the work of removal pursuant to
the owner’s request under subsection (4), the owner is liable to pay
reasonable compensation to the licensee.

 (6) If the licensee does not intend to undertake the work of removal
pursuant to the owner’s request under subsection (4), the licensee
must, by written notice, inform the owner and the Authority of its
intention and the Authority must specify a date not less than 14 days

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
23  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

from the date of the notice to inquire into the facts of the case, and the
decision of the Authority is binding on the licensee and the owner.

 (7) Where any part of a district cooling system has been laid,
placed, carried or erected on, under, upon or over any land and that
part of the district cooling system is no longer in use for district
cooling purposes, the licensee may, on its own volition, or must, at the
request of the owner of that land, remove that part of the district
cooling system from that land within a reasonable time at its own cost
and expense and compensate the owner for any damage done in the
process of removing that part of the district cooling system.

 (8) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Authority under
this section may, within 14 days of the decision, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

 (9) This section does not apply where a contrary intention has been
expressed by the owner of the land and the licensee by agreement.

 (10) In this section, “owner” includes any person having a
leasehold interest with an unexpired term of not less than 7 years.

Provision of space or facility by developer or owner of building

 29. Any developer or owner of a building who requires any district
cooling services from a licensee must provide at the developer’s or
owner’s expense such space and facility within or on the building and
such access thereto as may be necessary for the operation of the
district cooling system.

Apparatus not fixture and not subject to distress

 30. Any apparatus owned or let for hire or lent to a consumer by a
licensee and which has been affixed or fastened to any part of the
consumer’s premises —

       (a) continues to remain the property of that licensee and is
            deemed not to be a fixture, and does not vest in the owner
            of the premises; and

       (b) shall not be subject to distress or be liable to be taken under
            or pursuant to an enforcement order of any court or any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                24

          proceedings in bankruptcy or winding up proceedings
          against the party in whose possession it is.

                                                                       [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Power to discontinue provision of district cooling services in
emergency

 31.—(1) Where a licensee is of the opinion that immediate action is
necessary on the occurrence of any emergency, in the interests of
public safety or in order to avoid undue interference with the efficient
provision of district cooling services to other consumers or for any
other reasons affecting the public interest, the licensee may forthwith
discontinue the provision of district cooling services to any consumer.

 (2) The licensee must immediately after the discontinuance give
written notice of the discontinuance to the Authority and the affected
consumer, and must restore district cooling services to that consumer
as soon as is reasonably practicable.

 (3) A licensee shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused to
any person resulting from such discontinuance in the provision of
district cooling services.

                                    PART 7
                                  OFFENCES
Prohibition of unlicensed provision of district cooling services
 32. Any person who provides district cooling services to any
service area without a licence shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

Falsely pretending to be employee of Authority or licensee
 33. Any person who seeks to obtain entry to any premises by falsely

pretending to be an employee of the Authority or a licensee shall be
guilty of an offence.

Penalty for obstructing Authority in performance of duties
 34. Any person who at any time hinders or obstructs any authorised

officer or any employee, agent or contractor of the Authority in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
25  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

performance and execution of his or her duty under this Act shall be
guilty of an offence.

Making of false statement, etc.

 35.—(1) Any person who, when giving any information to the
Authority or making any application under or for the purposes of any
provision of this Act, makes any statement which the person knows to
be false in a material particular, or who recklessly makes any
statement which is false in a material particular, shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) wilfully or fraudulently procures or attempts to procure for
            the person or for any other person any licence under this
            Act by making or producing or causing to be made or
            produced any false or fraudulent representation or
            declaration either verbally or in writing; or

       (b) knowingly aids or assists therein,

shall be guilty of an offence.

Jurisdiction of court

 36. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Police officer or authorised officer may require evidence of
identity in certain cases

 37.—(1) Any police officer or authorised officer who reasonably
believes that any person has committed an offence under this Act may
require that person to furnish evidence of that person’s identity and
the person must thereupon furnish such evidence of the person’s
identity as may be required by the police officer or authorised officer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                26

 (2) The occupier of any premises must, if required by any police
officer or authorised officer, furnish the occupier’s name and the
name and address of the owner of the premises, if known.

(3) Any person who —

(a) refuses to furnish any information required of the person
     by any police officer or authorised officer under this
     section; or

(b) wilfully misstates such information,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

Duty to enquire before excavation

 38. Any person who digs, bores, trenches, grades, excavates or
breaks any ground with any mechanical equipment or explosive
within the service area or allows that person’s employee or agent to
do so without first ascertaining the location of any apparatus
belonging to or under the management or control of a licensee that
may be interfered with shall be guilty of an offence.

General penalties

 39. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Composition of offences

 40.—(1) The Authority may, in its discretion, compound any
offence under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $3,000.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Authority.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
27           District Cooling Act 2001                       2020 Ed.

Offences committed by bodies corporate, etc.

41. Where —

    (a) an offence under this Act has been committed by a
         company, firm, society or other body of persons; and

    (b) that offence is proved to have been committed with the
         authority, consent or connivance of any person who, at the
         time of the commission of the offence, was a director,
         manager, secretary or other similar officer or a partner of
         the company, firm, society or other body of persons or was
         purporting to act in any such capacity,

that person shall also be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                    PART 8

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Appeal to Minister

 42.—(1) Any licensee aggrieved by —

       (a) any decision of the Authority in the exercise of any
            discretion vested in it by or under this Act;

       (b) any direction given by the Authority under this Act; or

       (c) anything contained in any code of practice or other
            standard of performance issued or approved by the
            Authority,

may appeal to the Minister.

 (2) Unless otherwise provided, where an appeal is lodged under this
section, the decision, direction or thing in the code of practice or other
standard of performance appealed against must be complied with
until the determination of the appeal.

 (3) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction of the
Authority or by amending any code of practice or other standard of
performance issued or approved by the Authority.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                28

(4) The decision of the Minister in any appeal is final.

General exemption

 43. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, either
permanently or for such period as it may think fit, exempt any person
or premises or any class of persons or premises from all or any of the
provisions of this Act.

Service of documents

 44.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be given or served on any person, and any summons issued
by a court in connection with any offence under this Act may be
served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of his or her family at his or her last known place
            of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by affixing it to some conspicuous part of the person’s last
            known place of residence; or

       (d) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business,

and where the person to be served is a body corporate —

       (e) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer of the
            body corporate at its registered or principal office; or

        (f) by sending it by registered post addressed to the body
            corporate at its registered or principal office.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons would, in the ordinary course of post, be delivered and in
proving service of the notice, order, document or summons, it is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
29  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the same was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

Regulations

 45.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for carrying out the purposes of this Act and for
prescribing any matter which is required under this Act to be
prescribed.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations under this section, provide that any contravention of
any regulation shall be an offence and may prescribe punishment by a
fine not exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or with both.

 (3) All such regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

Incorporation by reference

 46.—(1) The regulations made under this Act may apply, adopt or
incorporate by reference —

       (a) wholly or partially;

       (b) with or without any addition, omission or substitution; or

       (c) specifically or by reference,

any code of practice, standard, requirement, specification or other
document that relates to any subject matter of any regulations made
under this Act (called in this section the material), as in force or
published at a particular time or as in force or published from time to
time.

 (2) The material mentioned in subsection (1) may be material
issued by the Authority, or material issued by any standards setting
organisation, or other organisation or person.

 (3) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated by reference in
the regulations under subsection (1) is to be treated for all purposes as
forming part of the regulations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  District Cooling Act 2001                                30

 (4) Unless otherwise provided in the regulations, where the
material is applied, adopted or incorporated by reference as in
force or published from time to time, every amendment to the
material that is made by the organisation or person that issued the
material is to be treated as being a part of those regulations.

 (5) Where any material is applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any provision of any regulations, the Authority must give
notice in the Gazette stating —

(a) that the material is applied, adopted or incorporated in the
     regulations, and the date from which the material is so
     applied, adopted or incorporated;

(b) that the material is available for inspection, free of charge,
     and the place at which such material may be inspected;

          (c) that copies of the material can be purchased, and the place
              where the material can be purchased; and

(d) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
     details of where or how the material can be accessed or
     obtained.

 (6) In addition, the Authority must cause a copy of every material
applied, adopted or incorporated by reference in the regulations under
subsection (1), to be made available for inspection by members of the
public without charge at any of its offices during normal office hours.

 (7) To avoid doubt, any part of the material that is not applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in the regulations under
subsection (1) has no legislative effect.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Advisory guidelines

 47.—(1) The Authority may issue advisory guidelines for the
purposes of providing practical guidance or certainty in respect of any
one or more requirements imposed by or under this Act.

 (2) The Authority may consult with such person as the Authority
thinks fit for the purpose of preparing any advisory guidelines under
subsection (1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
31  District Cooling Act 2001                                2020 Ed.

(3) The advisory guidelines may —

    (a) be of general or specific application; or

    (b) specify that different provisions of the advisory guidelines
         apply to different circumstances, or are applicable to
         different persons or classes of persons.

 (4) The Authority may amend or revoke the whole or part of any
advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1).

 (5) Advisory guidelines issued or amended under this section do
not have any legislative effect.

 (6) Where, in any administrative proceedings commenced in
connection with this Act, any provision in this Act to which any
advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1) relate is alleged to
have been contravened, then —

    (a) compliance with such guidelines; or

    (b) a contravention of or failure to comply with, whether by act
         or omission, such guidelines,

may be relied upon by any party to those proceedings as tending to
negative or establish the contravention which is in question in those
proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               DISTRICT COOLING ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 12 of 2001 — District Cooling Act 2001

Bill                      : 11/2001

First Reading             : 22 February 2001

Second and Third Readings : 16 March 2001

Commencement              : 1 April 2001

2. 2002 Revised Edition — District Cooling Act (Chapter 84A)

Operation                 : 31 July 2002

3. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 469 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 32/2018

First Reading             : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement              : 30 July 2020 (section 469)

4. 2020 Revised Edition — District Cooling Act 2001

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

5. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                 Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement              : 13 January 2022

6. Act 37 of 2021 — Energy (Resilience Measures and Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 4 October 2021
                                (Bill No. 34/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 2 November 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 January 2022

7. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                      : 18/2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
First Reading                ii
Second and Third Readings  : 26 July 2021
Commencement               : 14 September 2021
                           : 1 April 2022

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
