THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            LOANS (INTERNATIONAL BANKS)
                               ACT 1958

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                      2020 Ed.

         Loans (International Banks)
                    Act 1958

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Power of Government to borrow from International Bank
     5.  Power to issue instruments including bonds
     6.  Borrowing by statutory authority from Bank
     7.  Application of loan moneys by statutory authority
         Power of Government to guarantee loans by Bank to statutory
     8.  authorities
         Restriction on borrowing powers of statutory authority so long
     9.  as guarantee outstanding
         Powers exercisable by Government in event or prospect of
   10.   default by statutory authority
         Statutory authority to repay to Government sums paid under
   11.   guarantee
   12.   Arbitration
         Implementation of obligations under the agreement

An Act to provide for the raising of loans from the International Bank
  for Reconstruction and Development and the Asian Development
  Bank by the Government of Singapore and by statutory authorities
  and for matters connected therewith.

                                                              [8 October 1964]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Loans (International Banks) Act 1958.

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
                Loans (International Banks)

2               Act 1958                     2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

       “Bank” means the International Bank for Reconstruction and
           Development or the Asian Development Bank;

       “statutory authority” means a local authority and any body
           incorporated directly by any written law and exercising
           powers vested in such body by law for a public purpose.

Power of Government to borrow from International Bank

 3.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and this Act,
the Government may in such manner and on such terms and subject to
such conditions as may be agreed between the Government and the
Bank borrow from the Bank from time to time such sums as may be
required by the Government.

 (2) Any sums borrowed by the Government under the power
conferred by subsection (1) for the requirements of the Government
shall be paid into the Development Fund and shall, notwithstanding
section 3 of the Development Fund Act 1959, be applied and are
hereby appropriated to the purposes for which they were borrowed as
specified in any agreement concluded with the Bank in respect of the
sums so borrowed:

      Provided that where any part of such a sum cannot be applied to
those purposes that part may be applied to such other purposes as may
be approved by the Minister and the Bank.

 (3) Any agreement between the Government and the Bank in
respect of sums borrowed under the powers conferred by
subsection (1) shall be made in the name of the Republic of
Singapore and may be signed on behalf of the Government by the
Minister or by any person authorised thereto in writing by the
Minister.

 (4) As soon as possible after the conclusion of it a copy of any
agreement concluded with the Bank in respect of any sum borrowed
under the powers conferred by subsection (1) shall be presented by
the Minister to Parliament.
          Loans (International Banks)

2020 Ed.  Act 1958                     3

 (5) Nothing in this section shall affect or derogate from any other
power to borrow money possessed by the Government.

Power to issue instruments including bonds

 4.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in any written law, the
Government may issue such bonds, promissory notes or other
instruments on such terms and conditions as may be necessary for the
purpose of giving effect to the terms of any agreement which may be
entered into by it with the Bank in respect of any borrowing
authorised by section 3(1).

 (2) Any such bond, promissory note or other instrument may be
signed on behalf of the Government by the Minister or by any other
person authorised thereto in writing by the Minister.

Borrowing by statutory authority from Bank

 5.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and this Act, a
statutory authority may in such manner and on such terms and subject
to such conditions as may be agreed between the statutory authority
and the Bank and with the approval in writing first obtained of the
Minister borrow from the Bank from time to time such sums as may
be required by the statutory authority.

 (2) Notwithstanding anything in the written law by which a
statutory authority is established any agreement between the
statutory authority and the Bank shall be valid and binding on the
authority if signed on behalf of the authority by a person authorised
thereto in writing under the seal of the statutory authority.

 (3) The power to borrow conferred by this section on a statutory
authority shall be in addition to any power to borrow conferred on
such authority by any other written law.

 (4) Notwithstanding anything in the written law by which a
statutory authority is established, the statutory authority may
charge or mortgage all or any of its property (movable or
immovable), undertaking or revenue to secure any sum owing to
the Bank in respect of sums borrowed by it under the powers
conferred by subsection (1).

                                       31.12.2021
   Loans (International Banks)

4  Act 1958                     2020 Ed.

 (5) Notwithstanding anything in any written law, a statutory
authority may issue such bonds, promissory notes and other
instruments on such terms and conditions as may be necessary for
the purpose of giving effect to the terms of any agreement which may
be entered into by it with the Bank in respect of any borrowing
authorised by subsection (1).

Application of loan moneys by statutory authority

 6. Any sums borrowed by a statutory authority under the powers
conferred by section 5(1) shall be applied by the authority to the
purposes for which the sums were borrowed as specified in any
agreement concluded with the Bank in respect of the sums so
borrowed:

 Provided that where any part of such a sum cannot be applied to the
purposes aforesaid such part may be applied by the statutory authority
to such other purposes as may be approved by the Minister and the
Bank.

Power of Government to guarantee loans by Bank to statutory
authorities

 7.—(1) The Government with the President’s concurrence under
Article 144(1)(b) of the Constitution may in such manner and on such
terms and subject to such conditions as may be agreed between it and
the Bank —

       (a) guarantee the discharge by a statutory authority of its
            obligations under any agreement which may be entered
            into by the statutory authority with the Bank in respect of
            any borrowing authorised by section 5(1) or under any
            bond, promissory note or other instrument issued pursuant
            to any such agreement; and

       (b) undertake such other obligations as may be agreed between
            the Government and the Bank in relation to or pursuant to
            any such agreement, bond, promissory note or instrument.

                                                                                                               [11/91]
          Loans (International Banks)

2020 Ed.  Act 1958                     5

 (2) Any guarantee or undertaking given under this section shall be
given in writing in the name of the Republic of Singapore and it and
any indorsement on any bond, promissory note or other instrument of
any guarantee given under this section may be signed on behalf of the
Government by the Minister or by any person or persons authorised
thereto in writing by the Minister.

 (3) As soon as possible after a guarantee or undertaking is given
under this section, the Minister shall present to Parliament a
statement of the guarantee or undertaking.

Restriction on borrowing powers of statutory authority so long
as guarantee outstanding

 8. So long as the Government continues to be liable under any
guarantee or other undertaking given in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 7(1) in respect of any borrowing by a statutory
authority the statutory authority shall not except with the consent of
the Minister exercise any other power to borrow possessed by it.

Powers exercisable by Government in event or prospect of
default by statutory authority

 9.—(1) Where it is made to appear to the President that there is
reasonable cause to believe —

       (a) that a statutory authority is likely to fail or be unable to
            discharge any of its obligations under any agreement
            concluded by it with the Bank or under any bond,
            promissory note or other instrument issued pursuant to
            any such agreement; and

                                       31.12.2021
   Loans (International Banks)

6  Act 1958                     2020 Ed.

   (b) that the Government is or may become liable under any
        guarantee or other undertaking given in exercise of the
        powers conferred by section 7(1) in respect of such
        obligation,

the President may by order give or authorise any other person to give
such directions to the statutory authority as he or that other person
may from time to time think necessary or desirable to ensure that
satisfactory arrangements are made by the authority to enable it duly
to discharge its obligations under the agreement, bond, promissory
note or instrument or under this Act.

 (2) The statutory authority shall notwithstanding any provision in
the written law by which it is established comply with any directions
given by or under any such order.

 (3) Nothing in this section shall affect or derogate from any other
power conferred by law on the President or any Minister or public
officer in respect of the statutory authority.

Statutory authority to repay to Government sums paid under
guarantee

 10.—(1) If any sum is paid out of the Consolidated Fund in respect
of any liability incurred by the Government under a guarantee or
other undertaking given in exercise of the powers conferred by
section 7(1) in respect of any borrowing by a statutory authority the
statutory authority shall repay that sum (together with interest on it at
the same rate as that payable on the loan under the agreement by the
statutory authority with the Bank) to the Consolidated Fund in such
manner and at such time or by such instalments as the Minister may
direct.

 (2) If any sum is so paid out of the Consolidated Fund the Minister
shall, as soon as possible after the end of each financial year
beginning with that in which the sum was paid and ending with that in
which all liability in respect of it and any interest payable on it is
finally discharged by the statutory authority concerned, present to
Parliament a statement relating to it.
             Loans (International Banks)

2020 Ed.     Act 1958                     7

Arbitration

 11. If any dispute between the Bank on the one part and the
Government or a statutory authority or both on the other part arises
under any agreement concluded or guarantee or undertaking given in
exercise of the powers conferred by this Act or under any bond,
promissory note or other instrument issued pursuant to any such
agreement it shall be determined by arbitration in the manner agreed
between the parties, and any award made in the arbitration shall be
enforceable in Singapore in all respects as if it had been validly made
in an arbitration under the provisions of the Arbitration Act 2001 or
any other written law relating to arbitration for the time being in force
in Singapore, and for the purposes of this section the provisions of
that Act or law shall be binding on the Government.

Implementation of obligations under the agreement

 12.—(1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution but
notwithstanding anything in any other existing law, any agreement
concluded with the Bank in respect of any borrowing authorised by
section 3(1) or 5(1) and any bond, promissory note or other
instrument issued pursuant to any such agreement and any
guarantee or undertaking given in respect of any such agreement,
bond, promissory note or instrument by the Government or a
statutory authority shall be valid and enforceable and have full force
and effect in Singapore in accordance with their respective terms.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) —

       (a) the Minister may provide by order published in the Gazette
            that any tax or duty payable under the Income Tax
            Act 1947 or the Stamp Duties Act 1929 respectively
            shall be remitted where such remission is necessary to give
            full and complete effect to any such agreement, bond,
            promissory note, instrument or guarantee;

       (b) nothing in the provisions of the Exchange Control
            Act 1953 shall apply to any transaction required to effect
            payment in any currency of any sum in accordance with the
            terms of any such agreement, instrument, bond or
            guarantee in any currency.

                                          31.12.2021
   Loans (International Banks)

8  Act 1958                     2020 Ed.

 (3) Neither the Government nor any agency thereof nor any
statutory authority nor any central bank for Singapore which may
at any time be established shall, except as is otherwise agreed
between the Minister and the Bank, create any lien on any of its assets
as security for any external debt unless it is expressly provided that
the lien will ipso facto equally and rateably secure the payment of the
principal and interest and other charges on any loan made by or any
bonds, promissory notes or instruments issued pursuant to any loan
made by the Bank to the Government or to a statutory authority.

 (4) In subsection (3) —

   “external debt” means any debt payable in any medium other
      than currency which at the time in question is legal tender for
      the payment of private and public debt in Singapore whether
      the debt is payable absolutely or at the option of the creditor
      in the other medium;

   “lien” includes mortgages, pledges, charges, privileges and
      priorities of any kind.
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                 LOANS (INTERNATIONAL BANKS)

                                   ACT 1958

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                     PART 1
      LOANS (INTERNATIONAL BANK) ORDINANCE, 1963

                         (ORDINANCE 2 OF 1963)

1. Ordinance 2 of 1963 — Loans (International Bank) Ordinance, 1963

Bill                 : Information not available

First and Second Readings : 5 April 1963

Notice of Amendment  : 5 April 1963

Third Reading        : 5 April1963

Commencement         : 19 April 1963

                                PART 2
      LOANS (INTERNATIONAL BANKS) ACT 1958

                   (2020 REVISED EDITION)

2. M. Ordinance 41 of 1958 — Loans (International Bank) Ordinance, 1958

Commencement         : 13 November 1958

Application          : 8 October 1964

Note: This Ordinance was extended to Singapore with modifications by the
        Modification of Laws (International Bank and Guarantee Loans)
        (Extension) Order, 1964 (L.N. 325/1964 (G.N. Sp. No. S 169/1964))
        on 8 October 1964.

                                                  31.12.2021
                     ii

3. L.N. 325/1964 (G.N. Sp. No. S 169/1964) — Modification of Laws
                                                             (International Bank and
                                                             Guarantee Loans)
                                                             (Extension) Order, 1964

Commencement         : 8 October 1964

Note: This Order extended the Federation of Malaya Loans (International
        Bank) Ordinance, 1958 (M. Ordinance 41 of 1958) with modifications
        to Singapore.

4. G.N. No. S 160/1966 — Modification of Laws [Loans (International
                                   Bank)] Order, 1966

Commencement         : 29 July 1966

5. 1966 Reprint — Loans (International Bank) Ordinance, 1958

Reprint              : 3 August 1966

6. Act 1 of 1971 — Loans (International Bank) (Amendment) Act, 1971

Bill                 : 56/1970

First Reading        : 30 December 1970

Second and Third Readings : 11 January 1971

Commencement         : 1 December 1970

7. 1970 Revised Edition — Loans (International Bank) Act (Chapter 71)

Operation            : 1 April 1971

8. 1985 Revised Edition — Loans (International Banks) Act (Chapter 164)

Operation            : 30 March 1987

9. Act 11 of 1991 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1991
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (16) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                 : 4/1991

First Reading        : 3 January 1991

Second Reading       : 14 January 1991

Notice of Amendment  : 14 January 1991

Third Reading        : 14 January 1991

Commencement         : 30 November 1991 (section 2 read
                           with item (16) of the Schedule)
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
