TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS ACT 2018

         (No. 36 of 2018)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Purpose of Act
     2.  Act binds Government
     3.  Application of Act
     4.  Application outside Singapore
     5.  Interface with other written laws
     6.
     7.

                                        PART 2

           TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATION BUREAU
                                  OF SINGAPORE

 8. Transport Safety Investigation Bureau of Singapore
 9. Functions of TSIB
10. International obligations
11. Director of TSIB

                                        PART 3
              REPORTING OF TRANSPORT OCCURRENCES

12. Immediately and ordinary reportable matters
13. Director may require report

                                        PART 4
                      INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS

                            Division 1 — Investigations
14. Preliminary assessment after notification
15. Duty to investigate
16. Restriction on transport occurrence investigated

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
2  NO. 36 OF 2018

Section
   17. Reopening of investigation
   18. Recovery of costs and expenses of investigation

                           Division 2 — Investigation reports

   19. Draft reports
   20. Investigation reports, etc., to be published
   21. Reports inadmissible as evidence
   22. Responses to reports of, or containing, safety recommendations

                                Division 3 — Investigators

   23. Investigators
   24. Identification cards
   25. Public servants

                          Division 4 — Powers of investigation

   26. Access to accident site premises, transport vehicle wreckage,
            etc.

   27. Powers after entering accident site premises, wreckage, etc.
   28. Power to obtain information
   29. Power to require medical examination, etc.
   30. Powers to detain transport vehicle
   31. Power to control accident site, etc.
   32. Exception for rescue efforts, etc.

                                            PART 5

                                         OFFENCES

                                   Division 1 — Offences

   33. Adversely affecting investigations, etc.
   34. Otherwise hindering investigations, etc.
   35. Unauthorised entry to cordoned‑off area, etc.
   36. Non‑compliance with requirement to answer, etc.

                                   Division 2 — Defences

   37. Self‑incrimination not defence
   38. Other defences

                                   Division 3 — General

   39. Offences by corporations
   40. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   41. Jurisdiction of courts

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                                   3

Section
   42. Composition of offences

                                            PART 6
                  LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

   43. Restricted information
   44. Not compellable to give evidence
   45. Acts of unlawful interference

                                            PART 7
                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   46. Protection from liability
   47. General exemption
   48. Service of documents
   49. Regulations
   50. Presentation to Parliament

                                            PART 8
                          AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

   51. Amendment of Air Navigation Act
   52. Amendment of Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act
   53. Amendment of Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
   54. Amendment of Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act
   55. Amendment of Public Utilities Act
   56. Amendment of Rapid Transit Systems Act
   57. Saving and transitional

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
4  NO. 36 OF 2018

An Act to provide for investigation of transport occurrences and other
  matters affecting transport safety and for related purposes, and to
  make consequential and related amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018 and
comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “accident” means an accident associated with the operation of a
         transport vehicle involving circumstances prescribed;

      “accident site” means any premises associated with an
         occurrence involving a transport vehicle, and includes —

              (a) premises containing the transport vehicle or any of its
                   wreckage;

              (b) premises where there is an impact point associated
                   with an accident involving the transport vehicle;

              (c) if the accident involved destruction or serious
                   damage to property (other than the transport
                   vehicle) — premises containing the damaged
                   property or any of its remains or wreckage; and

              (d) such area around those premises as the Director
                   determines to be reasonably necessary to facilitate
                   the investigation of the occurrence and securing the
                   premises for the purposes of the investigation;

      “accident site premises” means —

              (a) an accident site; or

              (b) premises that it is necessary to enter in order to get to
                   an accident site;

      “aircraft” means any machine that can derive support from the
         atmosphere from the reactions of the air otherwise than by the
         reactions of the air against the surface of the earth, and
         includes an unmanned aircraft;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
6  NO. 36 OF 2018

   “appropriate foreign authority” means an authority of a foreign
      country responsible for transport safety investigations and
      functions corresponding to investigations that must be carried
      out by the TSIB, and the functions of the TSIB, under this
      Act;

   “aviation occurrence” means —

           (a) any occurrence associated with the operation of an
                aircraft where the aircraft is —

                  (i) destroyed or damaged; or

                  (ii) missing or completely inaccessible;

           (b) any situation where an individual —

                  (i) dies as a result of an occurrence associated with
                       the operation of an aircraft; or

                  (ii) is injured or incapacitated as a result of an
                       occurrence associated with the operation of an
                       aircraft;

           (c) any situation where any property is damaged as a
                result of an occurrence associated with the operation
                of an aircraft;

           (d) any situation where an aircraft is involved in a
                near‑accident;

           (e) any situation where an aircraft is involved in an
                occurrence that affected, or could have affected, the
                safety of the operation of the aircraft; or

           (f) any situation or condition that the Director has
                reasonable grounds to believe could, if left
                unattended, induce an occurrence or a situation
                described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e);

   “Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore” or “CAAS” means the
      Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore reconstituted by
      section 4 of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
      Act (Cap. 41);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           7

“civil proceedings” means any proceedings before a Singapore
   court other than criminal proceedings, and includes a
   coroner’s inquiry;

“Commissioner of Police” means a public officer who is
   appointed under section 6(1) of the Police Force
   Act (Cap. 235) as the Commissioner of Police, and
   includes a police officer who is for the time being
   appointed under that section to execute the duties of that
   office;

“consultant” means a consultant mentioned in section 8(2)(d);

“control area” means an area in a transport vehicle from which
   essential operational duties or functions in connection with
   the operation or safety of the transport vehicle are directed or
   controlled;

“cordon”, in relation to an accident site, a transport vehicle or its
   wreckage, includes —

        (a) a physical barrier around the site, vehicle or its
             wreckage; or

        (b) a roadblock on any road or barrier in any waterway
             in, around or in the vicinity of, the site, vehicle or
             wreckage;

“cordoned‑off area” means an area on which a cordon is placed
   by or under section 31;

“criminal proceedings” means proceedings before —

        (a) a Singapore court for an offence punishable under
             any written law other than a military offence within
             the meaning given by the Singapore Armed Forces
             Act (Cap. 295); or

        (b) a subordinate military court or the Military Court of
             Appeal, or a disciplinary officer or Senior
             Disciplinary Committee, under the Singapore
             Armed Forces Act for a military offence or civil
             offence within the meaning given by that Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
8  NO. 36 OF 2018

   “Director”, in relation to any provision of this Act or the
      regulations, means the Director of the Transport Safety
      Investigation Bureau of Singapore appointed under
      section 11(1), and includes —

           (a) an individual for the time being appointed under
                section 11(2) to execute the duties of that office; and

           (b) any TSIB staff member delegated under section 11(3)
                the power of the Director under that provision of this
                Act or the regulations;

   “disclose” —

           (a) in relation to information, includes divulge or
                communicate the information in any way; and

           (b) in relation to information contained in a document or
                other article, also includes produce the document or
                other article in whole or part, or make it available (in
                whole or part) for inspection;

   “draft report” includes a draft report from an appropriate foreign
      authority about a transport occurrence;

   “engage in conduct” means any act or omission, any series of
      acts or omissions, or both;

   “evidential material” means anything that may be relevant to an
      investigation;

   “exempt transport vehicle” means —

           (a) an aircraft used in the military, customs or police
                services of a foreign country;

           (b) a ship used in the military, customs or police services
                of a foreign country;

           (c) a Singapore military aircraft;

           (d) a Singapore military vessel;

           (e) a vessel owned by the Government and used by
                police officers or officers of the border control or
                civil defence departments of the Government; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           9

        (f) a vessel wearing the State Marine Ensign under the
             authority of the Chief of Navy;

“film” means —

        (a) a cinematograph film;

        (b) a video recording, or a slide, disc, tape or solid state
             recording device containing information by the use of
             which one or more series of visual images may be
             produced electronically and shown as a moving
             picture; or

        (c) any other form of recording from which a moving
             visual image, including a computer generated image,
             can be produced and viewed (together with its
             soundtrack);

“foreign country” means a country or territory outside of
   Singapore;

“identification card” means an identification card issued under
   section 24;

“immediately reportable matter” means a transport occurrence
   that is prescribed to be an immediately reportable matter;

“information” includes data, text, maps, images, sound, codes,
   computer programs, software and databases;

“international agreement” means a treaty or other agreement
   whose parties are Singapore and a foreign country, or
   Singapore and 2 or more foreign countries;

“investigation” means an investigation under this Act;

“investigator”, for an investigation, means an individual
   appointed under section 23 in relation to that investigation;

“investigator‑in‑charge”, for an investigation, means an
   investigator who is designated under section 23 as the
   investigator‑in‑charge in relation to that investigation;

“Land Transport Authority of Singapore” or “LTA” means the
   Land Transport Authority of Singapore established under the
   Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act (Cap. 158A);

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
10  NO. 36 OF 2018

    “marine occurrence” means —

            (a) any occurrence associated with the operation of a
                 ship where the ship is —

                   (i) destroyed or damaged; or

                   (ii) abandoned, disabled, stranded or missing in
                        operation;

            (b) any situation where an individual —

                   (i) dies as a result of an occurrence associated with
                        the operation of a ship; or

                   (ii) is injured or incapacitated as a result of an
                        occurrence associated with the operation of a
                        ship;

            (c) any situation where any property is damaged as a
                 result of an occurrence associated with the operation
                 of a ship;

            (d) any situation where a ship is involved in a
                 near‑accident;

            (e) any situation where a ship is involved in an
                 occurrence that affected, or could have affected, the
                 safety of the operation of the ship; or

            (f) any situation or condition that the Director has
                 reasonable grounds to believe could, if left
                 unattended, induce an occurrence or a situation
                 described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e);

    “Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore” or “MPA” means
       the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore established
       under section 4 of the Maritime and Port Authority of
       Singapore Act (Cap. 170A);

    “nominated official”, in relation to a reportable matter, means a
       TSIB staff member nominated (by name or office) by the
       Director in relation to that reportable matter;

    “occupier”, for any premises, includes a person present at the
       premises who apparently represents the occupier;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           11

“occurrence” includes an accident and a near‑accident;

“ordinary reportable matter” means a transport occurrence
   that —

        (a) is not an immediately reportable matter; and

        (b) is prescribed to be an ordinary reportable matter;

“other proceedings” means —

        (a) an arbitration under the Arbitration Act (Cap. 10);

        (b) proceedings before an Inquiry Committee appointed
             under the Workplace Safety and Health
             Act (Cap. 354A) relating to any accident,
             dangerous occurrence or occupational disease that
             has occurred in a workplace;

        (c) proceedings before any tribunal, authority, person or
             body that has power by or under any written law to
             require the production of documents or answering of
             questions, or constituted and vested by or under any
             written law to make a decision of an administrative
             character; or

        (d) proceedings by an employer with a view to
             disciplining an individual employed or engaged by
             the employer, including proceedings before —

               (i) a disciplinary officer relating to a disciplinary
                    or service offence under the Civil Defence Act
                    (Cap. 42) or the Police Force Act; or

               (ii) the Public Service Commission, the Judicial
                    Service Commission or the Legal Service
                    Commission relating to the misconduct of a
                    public officer or other disciplinary matter,

   but does not include proceedings in Parliament or a
   committee of Parliament;

                                                                       [Act 33 of 2021 wef 10/04/2024]

“photograph” means a product of photography or of a process
   similar to photography, other than an article or a thing in
   which visual images forming part of a cinematograph film

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
12  NO. 36 OF 2018

       have been embodied, and includes a product of xerography,
       photocopy, and record of an image, whether digitally or in
       another way;

    “police officer” includes —

            (a) a member of the Special Constabulary established
                 under the Police Force Act; and

            (b) an auxiliary police officer appointed as such under
                 Part IX of the Police Force Act;

    “power” includes a function or duty;

    “preliminary assessment” means a preliminary assessment
       under section 14;

    “premises” includes —

            (a) a building, structure or place, whether built on or not
                 and whether situated underground or underwater, or
                 any part of a building, structure or place; or

            (b) any vehicle, vessel or aircraft or part of it;

    “public authority” means —

            (a) any ministry, department or Organ of State of the
                 Government; or

            (b) any body established by or under any public Act to
                 perform a public function;

    “public passenger service motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle
       when used to provide regular route services under a public
       bus services contract entered into with the LTA; and “regular
       route service” and “public bus services contract” have the
       respective meanings given by the Bus Services Industry
       Act 2015 (Act 30 of 2015);

    “rail vehicle” means a vehicle that operates on a railway
       (including a vehicle that does not have wheels) and used or
       capable of being used —

            (a) as a means of transport of passengers or cargo, or
                 both passengers and cargo; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
   TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           13

   (b) for movement on a railway in order to maintain the
        railway;

.                 Examples

   (a) Any train and rolling stock, coaches, wagons,
        maintenance or engineering vehicles or other railway
        equipment that is designed for movement along a line of
        railway.

   (b) Any locomotive, engine, track car, tender, flanger and
        railway crane.

   (c) Any tram.

   “railway” means a system by which vehicles are guided —

           (a) by means of parallel rails, tracks, grooves or other
                guide‑ways;

           (b) by means of a single rail, track, groove or other
                guide‑way; or

           (c) by any other means prescribed,

      but excludes an amusement ride within the meaning of the
      Amusement Rides Safety Act (Cap. 6A);

   “railway occurrence” means —

           (a) any occurrence associated with the operation of a rail
                vehicle where the rail vehicle is —

                  (i) destroyed or damaged; or

                  (ii) abandoned, disabled, stranded or missing in
                       operation;

           (b) any situation where an individual —

                  (i) dies as a result of an occurrence associated with
                       the operation of a rail vehicle; or

                  (ii) is injured or incapacitated as a result of an
                       occurrence associated with the operation of a
                       rail vehicle;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
14  NO. 36 OF 2018

            (c) any situation where any property is damaged as a
                 result of an occurrence associated with the operation
                 of a rail vehicle;

            (d) any situation where a rail vehicle is involved in a
                 near‑accident;

            (e) any situation where a rail vehicle is involved in an
                 occurrence that affected, or could have affected, the
                 safety of the operation of the rail vehicle; or

            (f) any situation or condition that the Director has
                 reasonable grounds to believe could, if left
                 unattended, induce an occurrence or a situation
                 described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e);

    “regulations” means regulations made under this Act;

    “reportable matter” means —

            (a) an immediately reportable matter; or

            (b) an ordinary reportable matter;

    “responsible person”, in relation to a transport occurrence which
       is a reportable matter, means —

            (a) if the reportable matter involves an aircraft —

                   (i) in all cases, the owner, operator and
                        pilot‑in‑command of the aircraft, respectively,
                        when the aviation occurrence happens;

                   (ii) where the aviation occurrence happens on or
                        adjacent to an aerodrome in Singapore, the
                        owner or operator of the aerodrome also;

                  (iii) where the aviation occurrence happens in
                        Singapore airspace, the provider of air traffic
                        services also; and

                  (iv) also such persons as may be prescribed for the
                        particular type of aviation occurrence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           15

        (b) if the reportable matter involves a ship —

               (i) in all cases, the owner, master and
                    person‑in‑charge of the ship, respectively,
                    when the marine occurrence happens;

               (ii) where the marine occurrence happens on or
                    adjacent to a port in Singapore, the operator of
                    the port also; and

              (iii) also such persons as may be prescribed for the
                    particular type of marine occurrence;

        (c) if the reportable matter involves a rail vehicle —

               (i) in all cases, the owner, operator and driver of
                    the rail vehicle, respectively, when the railway
                    occurrence happens;

               (ii) where the railway occurrence happens on or
                    adjacent to a depot or railway station in
                    Singapore, the owner or operator of the depot
                    or railway station also; and

              (iii) also such persons as may be prescribed for the
                    particular type of railway occurrence; or

        (d) if the reportable matter involves a public passenger
             service motor vehicle, such person as may be
             prescribed for the particular type of occurrence;

“safety action statement” means a statement —

        (a) setting out any safety issues identified during the
             course of an investigation that should be addressed;
             or

        (b) setting out any steps taken by persons to remedy
             safety issues identified during the course of an
             investigation;

“ship” means any vessel which is used or capable of being used
   in navigation by water without regard to method or lack of
   propulsion, and includes —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
16  NO. 36 OF 2018

            (a) a craft designed, used or capable of being used, solely
                 or partly for navigation at sea or on an inland
                 waterway or a body of water;

            (b) an air‑cushioned vehicle (such as a hovercraft) or a
                 submersible craft; and

            (c) an unmanned vessel,

       but excludes any vessel which permanently rests on, or is
       permanently attached to, the seabed or is withdrawn from
       navigation by water or laid up;

    “Singapore aircraft” means an aircraft registered in Singapore
       under the Air Navigation Act (Cap. 6), or an aircraft owned
       by the Government;

    “Singapore military aircraft” means an aircraft used by the
       Singapore Armed Forces but does not include an aircraft that
       is registered under written law or in a foreign country;

    “Singapore military vessel” means a ship owned by the
       Government and used by the Singapore Armed Forces;

    “Singapore ship” means —

            (a) a ship registered, provisionally or otherwise, under
                 Part II of the Merchant Shipping Act (Cap. 179) and
                 its registry is not closed or deemed to be closed or
                 suspended under that Part;

            (b) a ship owned by the Government; and

            (c) a fishing vessel, or a ship used to process fish, that is
                 registered under any written law;

    “transport” means transport by —

            (a) an aircraft;

            (b) a ship;

            (c) a rail vehicle; or

            (d) a public passenger service motor vehicle;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           17

      “transport occurrence” means —
              (a) an aviation occurrence;
              (b) a marine occurrence;
              (c) a railway occurrence; or
              (d) an occurrence associated with the operation of a
                   public passenger service motor vehicle;

      “Transport Safety Investigation Bureau of Singapore” or
         “TSIB” means the Government department of that name
         established by section 8(1);

      “transport vehicle” means —
              (a) an aircraft;
              (b) a ship;
              (c) a rail vehicle; or
              (d) a public passenger service motor vehicle;

      “TSIB staff member” means —
              (a) the Director; or
              (b) an individual mentioned in section 8(2)(b) or (c);

      “unmanned aircraft” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
         the Air Navigation Act;

      “unmanned vessel” means a vessel equipped wholly or
         substantially with an autonomous system (such as an
         unmanned surface vehicle and a saildrone) and includes a
         barge drawn by an unmanned vessel.

Purpose of Act
 3. The purpose of this Act is to maintain and improve transport

safety by providing for —
       (a) the reporting of transport occurrences;
       (b) the conduct of investigations of transport occurrences and
            other matters affecting transport safety with a view to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
18  NO. 36 OF 2018

            preventing similar occurrences in the future rather than to
            ascribe blame to any person;

       (c) the publication of investigation results; and

       (d) the regulation of the disclosure and admissibility of certain
            information obtained or derived from investigations under
            this Act into transport occurrences.

Act binds Government

 4.—(1) This Act binds the Government.

 (2) However, nothing in this Act renders the Government liable to
prosecution for an offence under this Act.

 (3) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government.

Application of Act

 5.—(1) Except where provided by this section, this Act applies to
any transport occurrence, whenever occurring.

 (2) This Act applies in respect of aviation occurrences —

       (a) in or over Singapore; or

       (b) in or over any place outside Singapore if —

               (i) Singapore is requested to investigate, or to
                   participate or assist in the investigation of, the
                   aviation occurrence by an appropriate foreign
                   authority; or

              (ii) the aviation occurrence —

                    (A) involves an aircraft in respect of which, or that
                          is operated by a person to whom, an aviation
                          safety instrument is or has been issued under
                          the Air Navigation Act; and

                     (B) is in a location which cannot be definitely
                          established as being in the territory of any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           19

                          country and evidential material relating to the
                          aviation occurrence is found in Singapore.

 (3) This Act applies in respect of marine occurrences —

       (a) in Singapore; or

       (b) in or over any place outside Singapore if —

               (i) Singapore is requested to investigate, or to
                   participate or assist in the investigation of, the
                   marine occurrence by an appropriate foreign
                   authority;

              (ii) the marine occurrence involves a Singapore ship or
                   other ship licensed under any written law
                   administered by the MPA; or

             (iii) a witness to, or a person having information
                   concerning a matter that may have contributed to,
                   the marine occurrence arrives or is found at any place
                   in Singapore.

 (4) This Act applies in respect of railway occurrences happening on
or after the relevant date —

       (a) in Singapore; or

       (b) in any place outside Singapore, if Singapore is requested to
            investigate, or to participate or assist in the investigation
            of, the railway occurrence by an appropriate foreign
            authority.

 (5) In subsection (4), “relevant date” means a date specified in an
order made by the Minister and published in the Gazette for the
purposes of that subsection.

 (6) This Act applies in respect of occurrences happening in
Singapore involving the operation of a public passenger service
motor vehicle.

Application outside Singapore

 6. This Act extends to acts, omissions, matters and things outside
Singapore, unless the contrary intention appears.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
20  NO. 36 OF 2018

Interface with other written laws

 7.—(1) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act affects a police officer’s
powers or duties under the Criminal Procedure Code (Cap. 68) or any
other written law.

 (2) This Act does not affect the powers of the CAAS, the LTA, the
MPA or other public authority —

       (a) in regulating any mode of transport under any other written
            law; or

       (b) in performing their respective functions relating to
            transport safety or improving transport safety,

unless expressly provided otherwise by or under this Act.

                                    PART 2

        TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATION BUREAU
                              OF SINGAPORE

Transport Safety Investigation Bureau of Singapore

 8.—(1) A Government department called the Transport Safety
Investigation Bureau of Singapore or TSIB is established by this
section.

 (2) The TSIB consists of the following personnel:

       (a) the Director;

       (b) such other public officers as are necessary for the proper
            functioning of the department;

       (c) every employee of a public authority performing duties in
            the TSIB under a secondment arrangement making
            available temporarily to the Government the services of
            the employee in connection with the performance of the
            TSIB’s functions;

       (d) every consultant engaged by the Government for the
            purposes of any investigation into transport occurrences or
            any TSIB function.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           21

 (3) When performing services for the TSIB under a secondment
arrangement under subsection (2), the employee of the public
authority concerned is subject to the directions of the Director.

Functions of TSIB

 9.—(1) The function of the TSIB is to improve transport safety by
means that include the following:

       (a) receiving and assessing reports of reportable matters, and
            other safety information that is prescribed;

       (b) independently investigating transport occurrences;

       (c) reporting publicly on those investigations;

       (d) identifying factors that —

               (i) contribute, or have contributed, to transport
                   occurrences; or

              (ii) affect, or might affect, transport safety;

       (e) communicating those factors to relevant sectors of the
            transport industry and the public in any way, including in
            any one or more of the following ways:

               (i) by making safety action statements;

              (ii) by making safety recommendations;

             (iii) by issuing safety advisory notices;

        (f) conducting public educational programmes about matters
            relating to transport safety;

       (g) any other means as appear to the Director to be incidental,
            advantageous, necessary or convenient for the TSIB to
            carry on for or in connection with the performance of its
            functions and the discharge of its duties under this Act.

 (2) In addition, the TSIB has the following functions:

       (a) cooperating and coordinating with a public authority that
            has functions or powers relating to transport safety or
            functions affected by the TSIB’s function of improving
            transport safety;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
22  NO. 36 OF 2018

       (b) cooperating and coordinating with an appropriate foreign
            authority, or any other body of a foreign country that has
            functions or powers relating to transport safety, including
            taking evidence on their behalf;

       (c) coordinating and directing all investigations mentioned in
            subsection (1)(b) and determining which other parties (if
            any) should be involved in such investigations;

       (d) doing anything incidental, advantageous, necessary or
            convenient to the TSIB’s function of improving transport
            safety.

 (3) However, the following are not functions of the TSIB:

       (a) to apportion blame for any transport occurrence;

       (b) to provide the means to determine the liability of any
            person in respect of any transport occurrence;

       (c) to assist in court proceedings or other proceedings between
            parties (except as provided by this Act, whether expressly
            or impliedly);

       (d) to allow any adverse inference to be drawn from the fact
            that a person was involved in a transport occurrence,

and even though blame or liability may be inferred, or an adverse
inference may be made, by a person other than the TSIB, this does not
prevent the TSIB or any of its personnel from carrying out its
functions under this Act.

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsection (3) does not prevent the prosecution
of any offence under this Act.

 (5) Nothing in this section imposes on the Director or the TSIB,
directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by
proceedings before any court to which the Director or the TSIB would
not otherwise be subject.

International obligations

 10.—(1) The Director must ensure that his or her powers and any
investigator’s powers under this Act are exercised in a manner that is
consistent with Singapore’s obligations under international

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           23

agreements (as in force from time to time) that are identified by the
regulations for the purpose of this section.

 (2) In exercising powers under this Act, the Director must also have
regard to any rules, recommendations, guidelines, codes or other
instruments (as in force from time to time) that are promulgated by an
international organisation which is, and that are, identified by the
regulations for the purposes of this section.

Director of TSIB

 11.—(1) There must be a Director of the Transport Safety
Investigation Bureau of Singapore, who is an individual the
Minister appoints from among the individuals mentioned in
section 8(2)(b).

 (2) The Minister may appoint an individual from among the
individuals mentioned in section 8(2)(b) or (c) to act temporarily as
the Director during any period, or during all periods, when the
Director is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the office.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Director may delegate the exercise
of all or any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the
Director by any provision in this Act or the regulations to such TSIB
staff member as the Director specifies in relation to that provision;
and any reference in that provision to the Director includes a
reference to such a TSIB staff member.

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case, and may be subject to such conditions or limitations
as set out in this Act or as the Director may specify.

 (5) However, nothing in subsection (3) authorises delegating the
power of delegation conferred by that subsection.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
24  NO. 36 OF 2018

                                    PART 3

          REPORTING OF TRANSPORT OCCURRENCES

Immediately and ordinary reportable matters

 12.—(1) If a responsible person has knowledge of an immediately
reportable matter, then the person must report to a nominated official
within the time and by the means prescribed —

       (a) the immediately reportable matter; and

       (b) the prescribed particulars about the matter that are known
            to the responsible person.

 (2) If a responsible person has knowledge of an ordinary reportable
matter, then the person must, if so required by the Director by notice
in writing, give a written report of the matter (containing the
prescribed particulars about the matter, if prescribed) to a nominated
official within the time specified in the notice.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply if the responsible person
knows that another responsible person has, or other responsible
persons have, already reported the reportable matter to a nominated
official with all the particulars required by that subsection.

 (4) A responsible person who, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Director may require report

 13.—(1) Where the Director is satisfied that the responsible person
to whom section 12(1) or (2) does apply may have information that
was not communicated in a report given by the person under
section 12(1) or (2) (as the case may be), the Director may, by notice
in writing, require that responsible person to give a written report of
the immediately reportable matter or ordinary reportable matter (as
the case may be), containing the particulars prescribed for the
purposes of that section, to a nominated official within the time
specified in the notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           25

 (2) A responsible person who, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

                                    PART 4

                  INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS

                        Division 1 — Investigations

Preliminary assessment after notification

 14.—(1) Upon receiving a notification under section 12(1) or (2)
about a transport occurrence, the Director must determine —

       (a) whether or not a duty to investigate under section 15 arises
            in respect of that transport occurrence; or

       (b) if no such duty arises, whether or not an investigation in
            respect of that transport occurrence should be conducted.

 (2) The Director may exercise any powers conferred on an
investigator under this Part for the purposes of making a
preliminary assessment under this section.

Duty to investigate

 15.—(1) Subject to section 16, as soon as an immediately
reportable matter has been notified to a nominated official under
section 12(1), and if the Director believes that the circumstances of
the reportable matter —

       (a) have, or are likely to have, significant implications for
            transport safety; and

       (b) may allow the TSIB to establish findings or make
            recommendations which may improve transport safety,

an investigation must be carried out into the matter.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
26  NO. 36 OF 2018

 (2) Subject to section 16, the Director —

       (a) may cause an investigation into any other transport
            occurrence notified to a nominated official under
            section 12(1) or (2); and

       (b) must cause an investigation into a transport occurrence
            (whether or not notified under section 12(1) or (2)) if
            ordered in writing by the Minister to do so.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the duty or power to investigate a transport
occurrence under subsection (1) or (2) may extend to a transport
occurrence that involves —

       (a) a combination of modes of transport vehicles; and

       (b) a combination of military and non‑military transport
            vehicles.

 (4) The Director may discontinue an investigation at any time
except an investigation into a transport occurrence ordered by the
Minister under subsection (2)(b).

Restriction on transport occurrence investigated

 16.—(1) A transport occurrence must not be investigated under this
Act unless —

       (a) it occurs in Singapore;

       (b) it involves —

               (i) a Singapore aircraft;

              (ii) a Singapore ship;

             (iii) a rail vehicle operating on a railway located wholly
                   or partly in Singapore; or

             (iv) a public passenger service motor vehicle operating
                   within Singapore and an order is given under
                   section 15(2)(b) in respect of the occurrence; or

       (c) it occurs outside Singapore and any of the following apply:

               (i) evidence relating to the transport occurrence is found
                   in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           27

              (ii) an appropriate foreign authority requests the Director
                   or TSIB to conduct, or to participate or assist in, an
                   investigation into the transport occurrence;

             (iii) the Director considers that it is necessary to conduct,
                   or to participate or assist in, an investigation into the
                   transport occurrence and the agreement of the
                   appropriate foreign authority is obtained for the
                   TSIB to conduct, or to participate in, such an
                   investigation;

             (iv) Singapore has a right or an obligation, under an
                   international agreement, to participate or assist in an
                   investigation into the transport occurrence.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), a transport occurrence cannot be
investigated under this Act if —

       (a) it involves, or relates to, an exempt transport vehicle;

       (b) it does not involve, or relate to, any other transport vehicle
            that is not an exempt transport vehicle; and

       (c) it does not involve, or relate to, a civil transport facility
            unless the occurrence is associated with a flying display
            and the accident site is outside of military premises.

 (3) However, subsection (2) does not prevent an investigation of a
transport occurrence that involves a Singapore military ship or
Singapore military aircraft if an appropriate authority in the
Singapore Armed Forces requests the Director or TSIB to conduct
an investigation into the matter.

 (4) Where a transport occurrence involving or relating to —

       (a) a Singapore military aircraft or Singapore military vessel;

       (b) a vessel wearing the State Marine Ensign under the
            authority of the Chief of Navy; or

       (c) a motor vehicle used by the Singapore Armed Forces for
            military purposes,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
28  NO. 36 OF 2018

is being investigated, the TSIB and the Singapore Armed Forces must
take reasonable measures to ensure that investigations are
coordinated.

 (5) In this section —

      “civil transport facility” means any premises that is designed or
         used, wholly or mainly, to facilitate the operation or
         maintenance of a transport vehicle that is not an exempt
         transport vehicle;

      “flying display” means a civilian organised event (including any
         rehearsal for such event) which —

              (a) consists, wholly or partly, of an exhibition of flying
                   of any non‑military or military aircraft; and

              (b) takes place at an aerodrome or premises that is not
                   military premises;

      “military premises” means premises occupied by the Singapore
         Armed Forces.

Reopening of investigation

 17.—(1) Despite section 20, the Director may cause the
investigation of a transport occurrence previously concluded to be
reopened if —

       (a) new and important evidential material which could not be
            produced at the previously concluded investigation has
            been discovered; and

       (b) it appears to the Director that the evidential material may
            materially affect the analysis and conclusions in the report,
            or any safety action statements or safety recommendations,
            published in relation to that concluded investigation.

 (2) However, the Director may exercise the power under
subsection (1) with respect to a previously concluded investigation
of a transport occurrence only with the approval of the Minister if the
Director was an investigator in that investigation.

 (3) A reopened investigation must be carried out in accordance with
this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           29

 (4) In this section, a reference to the investigation of a transport
occurrence previously concluded includes a reference to an
investigation or inquiry into an accident or incident which was
completed before the date of commencement of this section —

       (a) under Part IIA of the Air Navigation Act; or

       (b) under Part V of the Merchant Shipping Act by an inspector
            appointed under section 108 of that Act.

Recovery of costs and expenses of investigation

 18. The Director may recover from the owner or operator of a
transport vehicle or both, as a debt due to the Government —

       (a) a reasonable part of the remuneration of an investigator;
            and

       (b) all expenses reasonably incurred by an investigator in the
            exercise of any powers,

in relation to conducting, participating or assisting in an investigation
into a transport occurrence involving that transport vehicle.

                    Division 2 — Investigation reports

Draft reports

 19.—(1) The Director may provide a draft report, on a confidential
basis, to any person whom the Director considers appropriate, for the
purpose of —

       (a) allowing the person to make submissions to the Director
            about the draft report; or

       (b) giving the person advance notice of the likely form of the
            published report.

 (2) A person who receives a draft report under subsection (1) or (4)
must not —

       (a) make a copy of the whole or any part of the draft report; or

       (b) disclose any of the contents of the draft report to any other
            person or to a court.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
30  NO. 36 OF 2018

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (4) Subsection (2) does not apply to any copying or disclosure that
is necessary for the purpose of —

       (a) preparing submissions on the draft report; or

       (b) taking steps to remedy safety issues that are identified in
            the draft report.

 (5) A person who receives a draft report under subsection (1) or (4)
cannot be required to disclose it to a court.

 (6) A person who receives a draft report under subsection (1) or (4)
is not entitled to institute other proceedings against anyone on the
basis of information in the report.

 (7) A draft report provided under subsection (1) must not include
the name of an individual.

Investigation reports, etc., to be published

 20.—(1) The Director must, as soon as practicable after an
investigation has been completed, publish, by electronic or other
means, a report in relation to the investigation.

 (2) The Director may, at any time before an investigation has been
completed, publish, by electronic or other means, a report in relation
to the investigation if the Director considers that the publication of the
report is necessary or desirable for the purposes of transport safety.

 (3) A published report may include submissions that were made by
persons to the Director in response to a draft report, safety action
statements or safety recommendations.

 (4) A published report must not include the name of an individual.

 (5) Despite anything in the National Library Board Act (Cap. 197),
the Director and an investigator are not required to hold any
documents or information concerning a transport safety matter that is
being or has been investigated under this Act beyond such time as is
necessary for the completion of the investigation and reports.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           31

 (6) In this section, “report” means any one or more of the following:

       (a) a report;

       (b) safety action statements;

       (c) safety recommendations.

Reports inadmissible as evidence

 21.—(1) A report under section 20 is not admissible in evidence in
any civil or criminal proceedings or other proceedings.

 (2) However, subsection (1) does not apply to a coroner’s inquiry.

 (3) A draft report under section 19 is not admissible in evidence in
any civil or criminal proceedings or other proceedings.

Responses to reports of, or containing, safety recommendations

 22.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) the Director —

               (i) publishes a report under section 20 in relation to an
                   investigation;

              (ii) receives a report from an appropriate foreign
                   authority about a transport occurrence; or

             (iii) publishes a report in relation to a transport safety
                   matter; and

       (b) the report is, or contains, a recommendation that a person,
            unincorporated association, or a public authority or public
            officer, in Singapore take safety actions.

 (2) The person, unincorporated association, public authority or
public officer to whom a recommendation mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) is made must give a written response to the
Director within a prescribed time after the report was published, that
sets out whether the person, association, authority or officer accepts
the recommendation (in whole or part), and —

       (a) if the person, unincorporated association, public authority
            or public officer accepts the recommendation in whole —
            details of any action that the person, association, authority

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
32  NO. 36 OF 2018

            or officer proposes to take to give effect to the
            recommendation; or

       (b) if the person, unincorporated association, public authority
            or public officer does not accept the recommendation in
            whole — the reasons why the person, association,
            authority or officer does not accept the recommendation
            in whole.

 (3) A person, unincorporated association, public authority or public
officer who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (2) commits an offence.

 (4) A person, unincorporated association, public authority or public
officer who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                         Division 3 — Investigators

Investigators

 23.—(1) Where a duty to investigate a transport occurrence under
section 15(1) or (2)(b) arises or section 15(2)(a) or 17(1) applies, the
Director must, without delay, appoint such number of TSIB staff
members or consultants as the Director thinks fit as investigators for
the purpose of carrying out the investigation.

 (2) Where more than one investigator is appointed for an
investigation of a particular transport occurrence, the Director must
also designate one of the investigators as the investigator‑in‑charge
for that investigation.

 (3) Where a single investigator is appointed for an investigation of a
transport occurrence, the investigator must be treated as designated
under subsection (2) as the investigator‑in‑charge for that
investigation.

 (4) The Director must issue to every investigator a written
authorisation specifying which of the powers conferred on an
investigator under this Division the investigator may exercise.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           33

 (5) The powers that an investigator may be authorised under this
Act to exercise may be exercised only to the extent authorised by the
Director under this section.

 (6) The written authorisation under subsection (4) for an
investigator may do all or any of the following:

       (a) limit the powers conferred on an investigator under this
            Division that the investigator may exercise;

       (b) limit where in Singapore the investigator may exercise his
            or her powers under this Act or any of them;

       (c) limit when the investigator may exercise his or her powers
            under this Act or any of them;

       (d) limit the circumstances in which the investigator may
            exercise his or her powers under this Act or any of them.

 (7) An investigator may be accompanied and assisted by police
officers or other individuals when exercising powers under this
Division if that assistance is necessary and reasonable; and any
reference to the investigator in sections 26 to 31 includes a reference
to such a police officer or other individual accompanying and
assisting the investigator.

 (8) To avoid doubt, this section does not prevent the Director
appointing himself or herself as an investigator for the purpose of
carrying out any investigation.

Identification cards

 24.—(1) The Director must issue to each investigator an
identification card.

 (2) Every investigator must return to the Director any identification
card issued to him or her under subsection (1) when —

       (a) for a consultant, his or her appointment as such ceases; and

       (b) for any other investigator, he or she ceases to be a TSIB
            staff member.

 (3) An investigator must produce his or her identification card for
inspection —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
34  NO. 36 OF 2018

       (a) before exercising a power under this Act; and

       (b) at any time during the exercise of a power under this Act, if
            asked to do so.

Public servants

 25. An investigator who, in the course of his or her duty as an
investigator, exercises any power under this Division in accordance
with the authorisation issued to him or her under section 23(4) is
taken to be a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code
(Cap. 224) when exercising that power.

                  Division 4 — Powers of investigation

Access to accident site premises, transport vehicle wreckage,
etc.

 26.—(1) For the purpose of an investigation into a reportable
matter, and pursuant to an authorisation under section 23(4), an
investigator may without payment of any charge —

       (a) enter any accident site premises relating to the
            investigation;

       (b) enter any transport vehicle involved in the reportable
            matter (whether or not at the accident site) or its wreckage;
            and

       (c) take equipment and material onto those premises or the
            transport vehicle (or its wreckage), and use it, for any of the
            purposes in section 27.

 (2) An investigator —

       (a) is authorised to enter any premises or transport vehicle (or
            its wreckage) under subsection (1) whether or not the
            occupier of the premises or person in possession of the
            transport vehicle (or its wreckage) consents to the entry;
            and

       (b) is entitled to enter and remain on those premises or the
            transport vehicle (or its wreckage) without payment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           35

 (3) An investigator may use such force, and with such assistance of
a police officer, as is reasonably necessary to obtain entry to the
accident site premises or the transport vehicle (or its wreckage)
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b).

Powers after entering accident site premises, wreckage, etc.

 27.—(1) After entering an accident site premises or a transport
vehicle (or its wreckage) mentioned in section 26(1)(a) or (b), an
investigator may, for the purpose of an investigation into a reportable
matter involving those premises or that vehicle (as the case may be)
and pursuant to an authorisation under section 23(4), do all or any of
the following:

       (a) examine or observe any activity conducted in or on the
            accident site or the transport vehicle (or its wreckage);

       (b) examine, take measurements of, conduct tests on, or take
            samples of, evidential material in or on the accident site or
            the transport vehicle (or its wreckage);

       (c) take any photograph or film of the accident site or the
            transport vehicle (or its wreckage), or any thing in or on the
            accident site or the transport vehicle (or its wreckage) that
            is evidential material;

       (d) operate equipment in or on the accident site or the transport
            vehicle in order to access evidential material;

       (e) in the case of evidential material that is equipment in or on
            the accident site or the transport vehicle, operate the
            evidential material;

        (f) search, without payment, the accident site or the transport
            vehicle (or its wreckage), and any thing in or on the
            accident site or the transport vehicle (or its wreckage), for
            evidential material;

       (g) seize any thing which is found in or on the accident site or
            the transport vehicle (or its wreckage) during the exercise
            of powers under this section that the investigator
            reasonably suspects is evidential material;

       (h) exercise such other powers as may be prescribed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
36  NO. 36 OF 2018

 (2) The power that an investigator may exercise under
subsection (1)(d) or (e) in relation to an accident site or a transport
vehicle (or its wreckage) includes the power —

       (a) to use a disc, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            accident site or the transport vehicle and can be used with
            the equipment or in association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the accident site or
            the transport vehicle to put the relevant data in
            documentary form and remove the documents so
            produced from the site or vehicle; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the place to
            transfer the relevant data to a disc, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the accident site or the transport vehicle
                   for the exercise of the power; or

              (ii) is in or on the accident site or the transport vehicle
                   and the use of which for that purpose has been agreed
                   in writing by the occupier of the accident site or
                   transport vehicle, as the case may be,

       (c) and to remove the disc, tape or other storage device from
            that site or vehicle, as the case may be.

 (3) The power that an investigator may exercise under
subsection (1)(f) in relation to an accident site or a transport
vehicle (or its wreckage) includes —

       (a) opening anything at the accident site or the transport
            vehicle (or its wreckage), or in the possession of an
            individual found in or on the site or the transport vehicle,
            that is locked and to inspect anything in it;

       (b) removing or causing to be removed an obstruction from the
            accident site or the transport vehicle (or its wreckage); and

       (c) digging up anything at the accident site, removing roofing
            material, wall or ceiling linings or floors of a building, or
            panels or other parts of the transport vehicle (or its
            wreckage).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           37

 (4) If any thing was seized under subsection (1)(g), the thing
must —

       (a) be returned to the person in whose possession it was when
            it was seized; or

       (b) if it is not reasonably practicable to return it to that person,
            be disposed of in such manner as the Director thinks fit,

when the thing is no longer required for the purposes of an
investigation.

Power to obtain information

 28.—(1) For the purpose of an investigation into a reportable
matter, and pursuant to an authorisation under section 23(4), an
investigator may require any person in Singapore whom the
investigator has reason to believe to be acquainted with any facts
or circumstances relevant to that purpose —

       (a) to attend before the investigator to answer, on oath or
            affirmation if required by the investigator, any question;
            and

       (b) to provide any document or information.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any document or
information under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any individual who is or was an
            officer or employee of the person, to provide an
            explanation of the document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that person or individual in paragraph (a), to state, to the
            best of the knowledge and belief of that person or
            individual (as the case may be), where the document or
            information is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            investigator in legible form.

 (3) An investigator is entitled without payment to keep any
document or information, or make a copy or an extract of any

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
38  NO. 36 OF 2018

document or information, provided to the investigator under
subsection (1).

 (4) If any person fails to comply with a requirement under
subsection (1) or (2), the court may, on the application of the
Director, make such order as the court thinks fit to secure compliance
with the requirement, and any such order may provide that all the
costs or expenses of and incidental to the application must be borne
by such person or by any officer of a company or other association
who is responsible for the failure.

 (5) However, subsection (4) does not apply if the person or
individual to whom a requirement is made under subsection (1)
or (2) —

       (a) does not possess the document or information required; or

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person or
            individual to obtain the document or information required
            and has been unable to obtain it.

Power to require medical examination, etc.

 29.—(1) Where an investigator believes on reasonable grounds that
the medical examination of an individual who is directly or indirectly
involved in the operation of a transport vehicle involved in a transport
occurrence is, or may be, relevant to the investigation, the
investigator may, by written notice, require the individual to submit
to a medical examination with a medical practitioner.

 (2) Where an investigator believes on reasonable grounds that the
performance of an autopsy on the body of a deceased, or the carrying
out of other medical examinations of human remains, is, or may be,
relevant to the conduct of the investigation, the investigator may
cause such an autopsy or a medical examination to be performed.

 (3) The power of an investigator under subsection (2) to cause such
an autopsy or a medical examination to be performed includes the
power to require, by written notice —

       (a) the person having custody of the body of the deceased or
            other human remains to permit the performance of that
            autopsy or medical examination; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           39

       (b) the autopsy report or medical examination report to be
            given to the investigator.

 (4) However, the requirement under subsection (1) that an
individual submit to a medical examination does not extend to a
requirement that the individual submit to any procedure involving
surgery or the injection into the body of any drug, but includes
requiring the individual to undergo a breath‑analyser test or a
toxicological examination or to provide blood or urine for a
laboratory test.

Powers to detain transport vehicle

 30.—(1) If the Director believes, on reasonable grounds, that —

       (a) evidential material is in or on a transport vehicle; and

       (b) it is necessary to exercise other powers under this Division
            in order to prevent the material from being removed from
            Singapore, or from being interfered with or to prevent its
            concealment, loss, deterioration or destruction,

the Director may, by order, detain the vehicle for the purpose of
exercising those other powers.

 (2) The power of the Director under subsection (1) to detain a
transport vehicle includes all or any of the following powers:

       (a) to stop the transport vehicle from leaving Singapore;

       (b) to take control and possession of the transport vehicle;

       (c) to move the transport vehicle, or cause the transport
            vehicle to be moved, to a place approved by the Director.

 (3) An order under subsection (1) may be given orally, and if an oral
direction is given to a group of individuals, it is deemed to have been
given to each member of the group if the oral direction is made in a
manner which is likely to be audible to all the members of the group
or as many of them as reasonably practicable.

 (4) The Director may exercise the power under subsection (1) with
such assistance of police officers, and by such force, as is necessary
and reasonable.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
40  NO. 36 OF 2018

 (5) However, the Director must not detain a transport vehicle under
this section for longer than is necessary and reasonable to exercise
any other powers under this Act.

Power to control accident site, etc.

 31.—(1) An investigator may, for the purpose of an investigation
into a transport occurrence, and pursuant to an authorisation under
section 23(4), exercise such powers as are necessary to secure either
or both of the following against unauthorised disturbance:

       (a) any accident site related to the transport occurrence;

       (b) any transport vehicle involved in the transport occurrence
            (whether or not at the accident site) or its wreckage.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the powers that an investigator
may exercise under this section in relation to a transport occurrence
include —

       (a) placing a cordon around an accident site or a transport
            vehicle involved in the transport occurrence (whether or
            not at the accident site) or its wreckage;

       (b) restricting entry to an accident site or a transport vehicle
            (or its wreckage) to people, animals and vehicles, that are
            authorised by the investigator or this Act;

       (c) preventing any unauthorised individual, animal or vehicle
            from disturbing or entering an accident site or a transport
            vehicle (or its wreckage);

       (d) removing, or ordering the removal of, any unauthorised
            individual, animal or vehicle from an accident site or a
            transport vehicle (or its wreckage);

       (e) preventing a transport vehicle (or its wreckage) from being
            moved;

        (f) preventing any evidential material or thing relevant to the
            investigation from being concealed or disturbed;

       (g) preventing any individual from removing evidential
            material from or otherwise interfering with an accident

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           41

            site or a transport vehicle (or its wreckage) or anything in it
            and, for that purpose, detain and search the individual.

 (3) The cordoned‑off area on which a cordon is placed under this
section must, so far as is reasonably practicable, be indicated by
means of any form of physical barrier as appears to the investigator
responsible for carrying out the arrangements for applying the cordon
to be appropriate.

 (4) An investigator is authorised to exercise any power under
subsection (1) whether or not the occupier of the accident site or
person in possession of the transport vehicle (or its wreckage)
consents to the exercise of those powers.

Exception for rescue efforts, etc.

 32. Nothing in this Act prevents or prohibits any person engaging in
conduct that is necessary —

       (a) to ensure the safety of persons, animals or property;

       (b) to remove deceased persons or animals, or human or
            animal remains, from an accident site;

       (c) to move a transport vehicle, or the wreckage of a transport
            vehicle, to a safe place;

       (d) to protect the environment from significant damage or
            pollution; or

       (e) to prevent any danger or obstruction to the public or other
            transport vehicles in the vicinity.

                                    PART 5
                                  OFFENCES
                           Division 1 — Offences
Adversely affecting investigations, etc.
 33.—(1) A person commits an offence where —
       (a) the person engages in conduct;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
42  NO. 36 OF 2018

       (b) the person knows that the conduct, or is reckless as to
            whether the conduct, will adversely affect an investigation
            or a preliminary assessment that is being conducted at that
            time or that could be conducted at a later time;

       (c) the conduct has the result of adversely affecting such an
            investigation or a preliminary assessment (whether or not
            the investigation or assessment, as the case may be, has
            started at that time); and

       (d) the conduct is not authorised by section 32, or by the
            Director or an investigator or any person acting under the
            authority of the Director or an investigator.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Otherwise hindering investigations, etc.

 34.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person engages in conduct;

       (b) the person knows that the conduct, or is reckless as to
            whether the conduct, will hinder or delay the Director or an
            investigator in the exercise of his or her powers under this
            Act;

       (c) the conduct has the result of hindering or delaying such an
            investigation or a preliminary assessment, as the case may
            be; and

       (d) the conduct is not authorised by section 32, or by the
            Director or an investigator or any person acting under the
            authority of the Director or an investigator.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) knowingly obstructs or prevents, or with intent to delay; or

       (b) attempts to obstruct or prevent, or to delay,

another person from complying with a notice under section 29, or an
order under section 30 or 31.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           43

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Unauthorised entry to cordoned‑off area, etc.

 35.—(1) An individual commits an offence if —

       (a) the individual enters or remains in the cordoned‑off area;
            and

       (b) the individual’s entry into, or remaining in, the
            cordoned‑off area is not authorised by section 32, or by
            the Director or an investigator or any person acting under
            the authority of the Director or an investigator.

 (2) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Non‑compliance with requirement to answer, etc.

 36.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person, without
reasonable excuse —

       (a) refuses to answer a question addressed to the person under
            section 28;

       (b) refuses to take an oath or make an affirmation when
            required by an investigator to do so under section 28;

       (c) fails or refuses to do or refrain from doing anything
            required of the person under section 28 or 29; or

       (d) fails or refuses to do anything required of the person by
            order under section 30.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
            or information which the person has been required under
            section 28 or 29 to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document or information required
            under section 28 or 29, makes any statement which the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
44  NO. 36 OF 2018

            person knows to be false in a material particular, or
            recklessly makes such a statement.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

                           Division 2 — Defences

Self‑incrimination not defence

 37.—(1) A person is not excused from answering a question or
producing evidential material in response to a requirement under this
Act on the ground that the answer, or the production of the material,
might tend to incriminate the person.

 (2) Where a person, who is an individual, claims, before answering
a question or producing evidential material that he or she is required
by an investigator under this Act to give, that the answer or the
production of evidential material might tend to incriminate him or
her —

       (a) that answer or evidential material;

       (b) the giving of the answer or production of evidential
            material; and

       (c) any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or
            an indirect consequence of the giving of the answer or the
            production of evidential material,

are not admissible in evidence against that person in any civil
proceedings or any criminal proceedings in a court, other than
proceedings for an offence under any written law in respect of the
falsity of the answer or evidential material produced.

Other defences

 38.—(1) It is not an offence under this Act for any person to refuse
to comply with any requirement, notice or order made or given by the
Director or any investigator under this Act if the Director or
investigator —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           45

       (a) failed to comply with section 24(3) when making the
            requirement or giving the notice or order; or

       (b) refused to produce his or her identification card on demand
            being made by that person.

 (2) It is also not an offence under Part 4 for any person to refuse to
comply with any requirement made or given by the Director or any
investigator under section 28 or 29 to provide any document or
information if the person to whom the requirement is made —

       (a) does not possess the document or information required; or

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person to
            obtain the document or information required and has been
            unable to obtain it.

                            Division 3 — General

Offences by corporations

 39.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
46  NO. 36 OF 2018

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters V and VA of the Penal Code; or

       (b) the Evidence Act (Cap. 97) or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
         meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
         Act (Cap. 163A);

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           47

        (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
             members, any of those members as if the member
             were a director of the corporation;

“reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
   includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
   following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

        (a) action towards —

               (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                    the provision creating the offence; and

               (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                    professional assessments of its compliance
                    with the provision;

        (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
             employees, agents and contractors are provided
             with information, training, instruction and
             supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
             comply with the provision creating the offence so far
             as the provision is relevant to them;

        (c) action towards ensuring that —

               (i) the plant, equipment and other resources; and

               (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                    processes,

        (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
             the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

        (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
             culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
             lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
             the offence;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

        (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
             of the person; and

        (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
             or purpose.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
48  NO. 36 OF 2018

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 40.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association of
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           49

                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters V and VA of the Penal Code; or

       (b) the Evidence Act or any other law or practice regarding the
            admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the same meaning as in section 39(6);

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
50  NO. 36 OF 2018

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Jurisdiction of courts

 41. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code, a District Court has
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and has power to impose
the full punishment for any such offence.

Composition of offences

 42.—(1) The Director, or a TSIB staff member authorised in
writing by the Director for the purpose of this provision, may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence.

 (2) A compoundable offence may be compounded under this
section by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (3) On payment of such sum of money, no further criminal
proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of the
offence.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 6

          LIMITS ON DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

Restricted information

 43.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a person commits an offence
if —

       (a) the person is, or has been, a Director, a TSIB staff member
            or a consultant;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           51

       (b) the person —

               (i) makes a record of information; or

              (ii) discloses information to another person or to a court;

       (c) the person knew, or is reckless as to whether, when making
            a record or disclosing information that the information is
            restricted information; and

       (d) the information is restricted information.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person, being a person other than an individual in
            subsection (1) —

               (i) makes a record of information; or

              (ii) discloses information to another person or to a court;

       (b) the person knew, or is reckless as to whether, when making
            a record or disclosing information that the information is
            restricted information; and

       (c) the information is restricted information.

 (3) However, subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any of the
following:

       (a) anything done by a person in performing functions or
            exercising powers under, or in connection with, any
            investigation or section 45;

       (b) disclosure to a court in criminal proceedings for an offence
            under any provision of this Act;

       (c) disclosure to a court in civil proceedings where the General
            Division of the High Court makes an order under
            subsection (4).

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2019 wef 10/01/2025]

 (4) If the General Division of the High Court is satisfied that any
adverse domestic or international impact that a disclosure of
restricted information might have on any current or future
collection and availability of transport safety related information is
outweighed by the public interest in the administration of justice, the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
52  NO. 36 OF 2018

General Division of the High Court may order the disclosure of the
restricted information.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2019 wef 10/01/2025]

 (5) In making an order under subsection (4), the General Division
of the High Court may direct that the restricted information, or any
information obtained from the restricted information, must not —

       (a) be published or communicated to any person; or

       (b) be published or communicated except —

               (i) in an anonymised form or as statistics which do not
                   identify any person; or

              (ii) in such manner, and to such persons, as the General
                   Division of the High Court specifies.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2019 wef 10/01/2015]

 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (7) In this section —

      “OBR information” means —

              (a) an OBR or any part of an OBR;

              (b) a copy or transcript of the whole or any part of an
                   OBR, including a copy made before the happening of
                   the transport occurrence that caused the recording to
                   become an OBR; or

              (c) any information obtained from an OBR or any part of
                   an OBR;

      “on‑board recording” or “OBR” means a recording that satisfies
         all of the following:

              (a) the recording consists of (or consists mainly of)
                   sounds or images, or sounds and images, of persons
                   in the control area of a transport vehicle;

              (b) the recording was made in order to comply with a law
                   in force in any country;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           53

        (c) any part of the recording was made at the time of the
             occurrence of an immediately reportable matter that
             involved the transport vehicle,

   but excludes a recording that is of a kind declared by
   regulations not to be an OBR for the purposes of this Act;

“restricted information”, in relation to a transport occurrence,
   means any of the following:

        (a) all statements (whether oral or in writing) obtained
             from persons by an investigator, a TSIB staff member
             or a consultant in the course of an investigation
             (including any record of such a statement) of the
             transport occurrence;

        (b) all information recorded by an investigator, a TSIB
             staff member or a consultant in the course of an
             investigation of the transport occurrence;

        (c) all communications with a person involved in the
             operation of a transport vehicle that is or was the
             subject of an investigation of the transport
             occurrence, such as OBR information;

        (d) medical or private information regarding persons
             (including deceased persons) involved in the
             transport occurrence that is being or has been
             investigated;

        (e) in relation to a transport vehicle that is or was the
             subject of an investigation of the transport
             occurrence — information recorded for the
             purposes of monitoring or directing the progress of
             the vehicle from one place to another or information
             recorded in relation to the operation of the vehicle;

        (f) records of the analysis of information or evidential
             material acquired in the course of an investigation of
             the transport occurrence, including opinions
             expressed by a person in that analysis;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
54  NO. 36 OF 2018

              (g) any other information that is obtained or derived
                   from investigations of the transport occurrence and
                   prescribed in relation to that transport occurrence.

Not compellable to give evidence

 44.—(1) If a person is prohibited by section 43 from disclosing any
restricted information, then —

       (a) the person cannot be required by any court to disclose the
            information; and

       (b) any information disclosed by the person in contravention
            of this section is not admissible in any civil proceedings or
            other proceedings or any criminal proceedings other than
            proceedings against the person under section 43.

 (2) The Director, a TSIB staff member or a consultant who is an
investigator is not compellable to give an expert opinion in any civil
or criminal proceedings or other proceedings in relation to a matter
related to transport safety.

 (3) However, this section does not apply in relation to coroner’s
inquiries.

Acts of unlawful interference

 45. If, in the course of an investigation of a transport occurrence, it
becomes known or is suspected that an act of unlawful interference
was associated with or involved in the occurrence, the investigator
must, after consulting the Director and the Minister —

       (a) immediately inform the Commissioner of Police; and

       (b) take steps to ensure that the appropriate foreign authorities
            concerned are informed of the fact.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           55

                                    PART 7

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Protection from liability

 46. No liability shall lie against a person who, acting in good faith
and with reasonable care, does or omits to do anything —

       (a) in the execution or purported execution of this Act;

       (b) in complying with an order or a direction given under this
            Act; or

       (c) when assisting an investigator.

General exemption

 47. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons or any transport vehicle or class of transport
vehicles from all or any provisions of this Act, either generally or in a
particular case and subject to such conditions as may be specified in
the order.

Service of documents

 48.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
56  NO. 36 OF 2018

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual;

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address;

       (g) by giving an electronic notice to the individual by the
            individual’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the individual may use the
            individual’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (h) by any other method authorised by regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the individual consents
            to service of a document of that kind in that way.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner or other like officer of the
            partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address;

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address;

       (e) by giving an electronic notice to the partnership by the
            partnership’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the partnership may use the
            partnership’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

        (f) by any other method authorised by regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the partnership
            consents to service of a document of that kind in that way.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           57

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other like officer of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association, or the limited
            liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
            registered office or principal office in Singapore;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
            corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
            office or principal office in Singapore;

       (d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
            unincorporated association’s email address;

       (e) by giving an electronic notice to the body corporate or
            unincorporated association by the body corporate’s or
            unincorporated association’s chosen means of notification,
            stating that the document is available and how the body
            corporate or unincorporated association (as the case may
            be) may use its chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

        (f) by any other method authorised by regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the body corporate or
            unincorporated association (as the case may be) consents
            to service of a document of that kind in that way.

 (5) Service of a document under subsection (1) takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
58  NO. 36 OF 2018

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email, or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent to
service in that way.

 (7) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice or order permitted or required by
         this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act, or the last email address of the addressee
         concerned known to the person giving or serving the
         document;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in civil
proceedings or criminal proceedings in court or other proceedings.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           59

Regulations

 49.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing matters
required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed or necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Minister may make
regulations for the following matters:

       (a) the appointment of nominated officials for reporting of
            reportable matters, which may include different nominated
            officials for different reportable matters;

       (b) the reporting of reportable matters, which may include
            different periods for reporting for different reportable
            matters;

       (c) the conduct of investigations into transport occurrences;

       (d) the participation or representation of individuals other than
            investigators in any investigation as allowed under
            international agreements, including recovery or
            reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by these
            individuals by reason of their participation in the
            investigation from owners or operators of the transport
            vehicle involved;

       (e) the recovery of costs and expenses incurred in carrying out
            the investigations;

        (f) the methods of service of documents required or permitted
            by this Act to be served;

       (g) the offences under this Act that may be compounded;

       (h) the fees to be paid in connection with the administration of
            this Act, and the waiver, reduction or refund of fees
            charged.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may —

       (a) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
            regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
60  NO. 36 OF 2018

            exceeding $100,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 5 years or with both; and

       (b) provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
            is necessary or expedient.

Presentation to Parliament

 50. All orders and regulations made under sections 5(5), 47 and 49,
respectively, must be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication in the Gazette.

                                    PART 8

                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS

Amendment of Air Navigation Act

 51. The Air Navigation Act (Cap. 6, 2014 Ed.) is amended —

       (a) by deleting the definitions of “Air Accident Investigation
            Bureau of Singapore” or “AAIB” and “Inspector of
            Accidents” or “Inspector” in section 2(1);

       (b) by deleting paragraphs (a) to (d) of the definition of
            “excluded information” in section 12 and substituting the
            following paragraphs:

                        “(a) all statements (whether oral or in writing)
                               obtained from persons by an investigator,
                               or a staff member or consultant of the
                               Transport Safety Investigation Bureau of
                               Singapore in the course of an investigation
                               or a preliminary assessment (including any
                               record of such a statement) under the
                               Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                          (b) all information recorded by an investigator,
                               or a staff member or consultant of the
                               Transport Safety Investigation Bureau of
                               Singapore in the course of an investigation

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           61

                       or a preliminary assessment under the
                       Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                  (c) all communications with a person involved
                       in the operation of an aircraft that is or was
                       the subject of an investigation or a
                       preliminary assessment under the
                       Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                  (d) all medical or private information
                       regarding persons (including deceased
                       persons) involved in an accident or
                       incident that is being or has been
                       investigated, or the subject of a
                       preliminary assessment, under the
                       Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;

                 (da) all records of the analysis of information or
                       evidential material acquired in the course
                       of an investigation or a preliminary
                       assessment under the Transport Safety
                       Investigations Act 2018 (such as but not
                       limited to flight recorder information),
                       including any opinion expressed by a
                       person in the analysis of such information
                       or evidential material;”;

(c) by deleting the heading of Part IIA and substituting the
     following heading:

                “AIR TRANSPORT UNDERTAKINGS”;

(d) by repealing sections 13 to 14E (including the Division 1, 2
     and 3 headings);

(e) by deleting the words “Without prejudice to section 14C,
     a” in section 29D(1) and substituting the word “A”;

(f) by inserting the word “or” at the end of section 29D(1)(b);
     and

(g) by deleting paragraph (c) of section 29D(1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
62  NO. 36 OF 2018

Amendment of Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act

 52. Section 7(1) of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Act
(Cap. 41, 2014 Ed.) is amended by deleting paragraph (ga) and
substituting the following paragraph:

          “(ga) to cooperate with the Transport Safety Investigation
                  Bureau of Singapore in relation to investigations
                  under the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;”.

Amendment of Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act

 53. Section 7(1) of the Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act
(Cap. 158A, 1996 Ed.) is amended by inserting, immediately after
paragraph (l), the following paragraph:

           “(la) to cooperate with the Transport Safety Investigation
                  Bureau of Singapore in relation to investigations
                  under the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;”.

Amendment of Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act

 54. Section 7(1) of the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore
Act (Cap. 170A, 1997 Ed.) is amended by inserting, immediately
after paragraph (l), the following paragraph:

           “(la) to cooperate with the Transport Safety Investigation
                  Bureau of Singapore in relation to investigations
                  under the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;”.

Amendment of Public Utilities Act

 55. Section 6(1) of the Public Utilities Act (Cap. 261, 2002 Ed.) is
amended by deleting the word “and” at the end of paragraph (ja), and
by inserting immediately thereafter the following paragraph:

           “(jb) cooperate with the Transport Safety Investigation
                  Bureau of Singapore in relation to investigations
                  under the Transport Safety Investigations Act 2018;
                  and”.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATIONS                           63

Amendment of Rapid Transit Systems Act

 56. The Rapid Transit Systems Act (Cap. 263A, 2004 Ed.) is
amended by deleting paragraph (e) of section 45(2) and substituting
the following paragraph:

            “(e) reporting to the Authority of accidents on any part of a
                  railway operated by a licensee, and investigating into
                  such accidents;”.

Saving and transitional

 57.—(1) Every investigation or inquiry into an accident or incident
that —

       (a) started before the date of commencement of section 51 —

               (i) under Part IIA of the Air Navigation Act; or

              (ii) under Part V of the Merchant Shipping Act by an
                   inspector appointed under section 108 of that Act;
                   and

       (b) remains uncompleted immediately before that date,

must continue as if this Act had not been enacted.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), every investigation or inquiry
mentioned in that subsection must be treated as if an investigation
under this Act for the purposes of —

       (a) Part 6, and particularly the definition of “restricted
            information” in section 43; and

       (b) section 12 of the Air Navigation Act as amended by this
            Act.

 (3) Every individual who, immediately before the date of
commencement of section 23, is appointed —

       (a) an Inspector of Accidents under section 13B(1) of the Air
            Navigation Act; or

       (b) an inspector under section 108 of the Merchant Shipping
            Act,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
64  NO. 36 OF 2018

continues to hold such office as if he or she were appointed an
investigator under this Act.

 (4) Every report published by the Air Accident Investigation
Bureau of Singapore under section 13B(7) of the Air Navigation
Act is to be treated as a report published under section 20.

 (5) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe such
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of that provision as the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 10/1/2025
