         DEBT COLLECTION ACT 2022

         (No. 27 of 2022)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         General interpretation
     1.  Appointment of officers
     2.  Compliance officers
     3.  Protection from personal liability
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

         REGULATION OF DEBT COLLECTION BUSINESSES
           AND DEBT COLLECTION ACTIVITIES RELATING

                        TO REGULATED BUSINESSES

 6. Regulation of debt collection businesses and debt collection
         activities relating to regulated businesses

                               Division 1 — Licences

 7. Application for or to renew licence
 8. Grant or renewal of licence
 9. Form and validity of licence
10. Licence conditions
11. Modification of conditions of licence
12. Lapse of licence
13. Register of licensees

                            Division 2 — Class licences

14. Class licence
15. Variation and revocation of class licence

                          Division 3 — Codes of practice

16. Codes of practice

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
2        NO. 27 OF 2022

         PART 3

         DEBT COLLECTORS

Section  Individuals acting as debt collectors
   17.   Deployment of individuals to perform debt collection activities
   18.   by licensees
         Application for approval
   19.   Grant of approval
   20.   Conditions of approval
   21.

                                           PART 4

                    ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

                  Division 1 — Regulatory action against licensees
                                    and class licensees

   22. Regulatory action against licensees and class licensees
   23. Proceedings for regulatory action against licensees and class

            licensees
   24. Immediate suspension of licence or application of class licence

        Division 2 — Regulatory action against approved debt collectors

   25. Regulatory action in respect of approved individuals
   26. Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approved

            individuals
   27. Immediate suspension of approval
   28. Notification of cessation of deployment of debt collectors

                           Division 3 — Enforcement powers

   29. Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable
   30. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
   31. Powers of investigation
   32. Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   33. Offences to be arrestable
   34. Offences
   35. Composition of offences

                                           PART 5
                                          APPEALS

   36. Interpretation of this Part
   37. Appeal to Minister

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                                 3

Section
   38. Designation of others to hear appeals

                                            PART 6

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   39. Offences by corporations
   40. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   41. Jurisdiction of courts
   42. Service of documents
   43. General exemption
   44. Amendment of Schedules
   45. Regulations
   46. Saving and transitional provisions

            First Schedule
            Second Schedule

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
4  NO. 27 OF 2022

An Act to regulate the operation of debt collection businesses and the
  conduct of certain debt collection activities and to provide for other
  connected or incidental matters.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           5

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Debt Collection Act 2022 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

General interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Assistant Licensing Officer” means a public officer appointed
         under section 3(1)(b);

      “authorised officer” means a public officer appointed under
         section 3(3);

      “class licence” means a class licence determined under an order
         made under section 14(1);

      “class licensee” means a person to whom an order under
         section 14(1) applies;

      “code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
         by the Licensing Officer under section 16, and includes any
         such code of practice as amended from time to time under
         that section;

      “compliance officer” means an individual appointed under
         section 4(1);

      “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967;

      “debt” means a monetary obligation owed by a debtor;

      “debt collection activity” means any activity undertaken in
         Singapore that involves finding the debtor of a debt or
         requesting, demanding or collecting from the debtor money
         due under the debt;

      “debt collection business” means the business carried on by a
         person of collecting any debt from a debtor —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
6  NO. 27 OF 2022

           (a) on behalf of another person; or

           (b) where the firstmentioned person has acquired the
                debt;

   “debt collector” means an individual who carries out any debt
      collection activity for or on behalf of another person;

   “entity” means any of the following:

           (a) a corporation registered under section 19 of the
                Companies Act 1967;

           (b) a sole proprietorship or partnership registered under
                the Business Names Registration Act 2014;

           (c) a limited liability partnership registered under the
                Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

           (d) a limited partnership registered under the Limited
                Partnerships Act 2008;

           (e) an entity having a business or corporate structure as
                may be prescribed;

   “excluded person” means a person specified in Part 1 of the
      First Schedule;

   “inspecting officer” means the Licensing Officer, an Assistant
      Licensing Officer, an authorised officer or a police officer;

   “key appointment holder”, in relation to an entity, means any of
      the following persons:

           (a) where the entity is a corporation —

                  (i) a member of the board of directors or
                       committee or board of trustees or other
                       governing board of the corporation; or

                  (ii) an individual for the time being holding the
                       office of chairperson or chief executive officer
                       of the corporation;

           (b) where the entity is a sole proprietorship — the sole
                proprietor;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           7

              (c) where the entity is a partnership or limited
                   partnership — a partner of the partnership or
                   limited partnership, as the case may be;

              (d) where the entity is a limited liability partnership — a
                   partner or manager of the limited liability
                   partnership;

              (e) any person, other than a person mentioned in
                   paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d), by whatever name
                   called, who is principally responsible for the
                   management and conduct of the entity’s business
                   activities;

      “licence” means a licence granted or renewed under section 8;

      “licensee” means a person who is the holder of a licence, but
         does not include a class licensee;

      “Licensing Officer” means the public officer appointed under
         section 3(1)(a);

      “modification” and “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
         licence or the conditions of an approval granted under
         section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a debt collector
         of a licensee, include deleting, varying and substituting a
         condition, and adding a condition;

      “police officer” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Police Force Act 2004;

      “public authority” means —

              (a) any Ministry, department of the Government or
                   Organ of State; or

              (b) any body established or constituted by or under any
                   public Act to perform a public function;

      “regulated business” means a business specified in Part 2 of the
         First Schedule.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, any debt that is owed to a person
who carries on a regulated business in the course of the regulated

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
8  NO. 27 OF 2022

business includes a debt that is owed to the person as a consequence
of a merger with, or acquisition of, a regulated business.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a person (A) deploys an
individual (B) as A’s debt collector, if B —

       (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
            arrangement with, A; and

       (b) is authorised to carry out any debt collection activity for or
            on behalf of A.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) a licensee is not regarded as being granted a licence to
            carry on a debt collection business or to carry out any debt
            collection activity in the course of the business, during the
            period the licensee’s licence is suspended under
            section 22(2)(b) or 24(2);

       (b) a class licensee is not regarded as authorised under a class
            licence to carry out any debt collection activity to collect
            any debt that is owed to the class licensee in the course of
            the regulated business carried on by the class licensee,
            during the period the application of the class licence to that
            class licensee is suspended under section 22(2)(b) or 24(2);
            and

       (c) a licensee and an individual to whom approval is granted
            by the Licensing Officer under section 20 for the individual
            to be deployed as a debt collector of the licensee, are not
            regarded as being so approved during the period the
            approval is suspended under section 25(2)(c) or 27(2).

Appointment of officers

 3.—(1) The Minister may, for the purposes of this Act, appoint —

       (a) a public officer as the Licensing Officer; and

       (b) any number of public officers as Assistant Licensing
            Officers that the Minister considers necessary.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           9

 (2) The Licensing Officer and Assistant Licensing Officers may be
known by the titles that the Minister may determine from time to
time.

 (3) The Licensing Officer may, in relation to any provision of this
Act, appoint any public officer to be an authorised officer for the
purposes of that provision, either generally or in a particular case.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), the Licensing Officer may, with the
approval of the Minister, delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Licensing Officer by
any provision of this Act (except the power of delegation conferred
by this subsection) to an Assistant Licensing Officer.

 (5) Any delegation under subsection (4) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to the conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Licensing Officer may specify; and any
reference in the provision of this Act to the Licensing Officer includes
a reference to such an Assistant Licensing Officer.

Compliance officers

 4.—(1) The Licensing Officer may, with the general or specific
approval of the Minister, appoint an individual who —

       (a) is at least 18 years of age;

       (b) is not an employee of a public authority;

       (c) is not a public officer; and

       (d) has suitable qualifications or experience,

to be a compliance officer to assist the Licensing Officer or an
authorised officer in the exercise of enforcement powers in Division 3
of Part 4 in any particular area in Singapore.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may, for any reason that appears to the
Licensing Officer to be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s
appointment as a compliance officer.

 (3) The Licensing Officer must issue to each compliance officer an
identification card, which must be carried at all times by the
compliance officer when exercising any power under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
10  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (4) A compliance officer whose appointment ceases must return
any identification card issued to him or her under subsection (3) to the
Licensing Officer.

 (5) The Licensing Officer must also issue to each compliance
officer, a written authorisation specifying one or more of the powers
expressly specified in Division 3 of Part 4 as exercisable by a
compliance officer, as what the compliance officer may exercise, and
no other powers.

 (6) The authorisation of the Licensing Officer under subsection (5)
issued to a compliance officer may also do all or any of the following:

       (a) limit the powers mentioned in subsection (1) that the
            compliance officer may exercise;

       (b) limit when, and where in the particular area in Singapore,
            the compliance officer may exercise those powers or any of
            them;

       (c) limit the circumstances in which the compliance officer
            may exercise those powers or any of them.

 (7) To avoid doubt, the Licensing Officer cannot authorise under
this section a compliance officer —

       (a) to detain or arrest any individual;

       (b) to search any place or individual; or

       (c) to seize any property.

 (8) The powers that a compliance officer may be authorised under
this section to exercise may be exercised only —

       (a) on production of the identification card issued under
            subsection (3);

       (b) to the extent authorised by the Licensing Officer under
            subsection (5); and

       (c) as directed (generally or specially) by the Licensing
            Officer or an authorised officer.

 (9) A compliance officer who is authorised under subsection (5) to
exercise any power expressly specified in that authorisation as

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           11

exercisable by a compliance officer is deemed to be a public servant
for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising that power.

 (10) To avoid doubt, a compliance officer does not cease to be
acting on the direction of the Licensing Officer or an authorised
officer by reason only that the Licensing Officer or authorised officer
is not present at all times.

 (11) An individual who is appointed as a compliance officer under
subsection (1) does not, by virtue only of the appointment, become an
agent of the Government.

Protection from personal liability

 5. No liability shall lie personally against the Licensing Officer, an
Assistant Licensing Officer, an authorised officer, a compliance
officer, a police officer or any other person acting under the direction
of the Licensing Officer for anything which is done or purported to be
done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with reasonable care
in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            under this Act.

                                    PART 2

     REGULATION OF DEBT COLLECTION BUSINESSES
       AND DEBT COLLECTION ACTIVITIES RELATING

                    TO REGULATED BUSINESSES

Regulation of debt collection businesses and debt collection
activities relating to regulated businesses

 6.—(1) A person must not, on or after the start date, carry on a debt
collection business, or carry out any debt collection activity in the
course of the business, unless the person is an entity which is
authorised to carry on the debt collection business by a valid licence
under this Act.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
12  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (2) A person who carries on a regulated business must not, on or
after the start date, carry out any debt collection activity to collect any
debt that is owed to the person in the course of the regulated business,
unless the person is authorised to carry out the debt collection activity
under a class licence determined by the Minister under section 14(1).

 (3) A person must not, on or after the start date, advertise or
otherwise hold himself, herself or itself out that the person is carrying
on a debt collection business unless the person holds a valid licence
under this Act.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (3) do not apply to an excluded person.

 (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 2 years or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine of not less
            than $20,000 and not more than $100,000 or to
            imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (6) In this section, “start date” means the date which falls 3 months
after the date of commencement of this section.

                           Division 1 — Licences

Application for or to renew licence

 7.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to the
Licensing Officer in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be in the form and manner required by the Licensing
            Officer;

       (b) be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee
            (if prescribed) paid in the manner required by the
            Licensing Officer; and

       (c) be accompanied by any information that the Licensing
            Officer requires to decide on the application.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           13

 (3) In addition to the requirements under subsection (2),
an application to renew a licence must —

       (a) be made not later than the prescribed time before the date
            the licence expires (called in this subsection the renewal
            deadline); and

       (b) if made later than the renewal deadline, be accompanied by
            a non‑refundable late renewal application fee
            (if prescribed) paid in the manner required by the
            Licensing Officer.

 (4) The Licensing Officer or an authorised officer may —

       (a) carry out any inquiry or investigation in relation to an
            application under subsection (1) that is necessary for a
            proper consideration by the Licensing Officer of the
            application; and

       (b) request that the applicant provide, within a specified time,
            any additional information that the Licensing Officer
            requires for a proper consideration of the application.

 (5) The Licensing Officer may refuse an application under
subsection (1) —

       (a) that is incomplete or otherwise not made in accordance
            with this section; or

       (b) if the applicant fails to provide the additional information
            requested under subsection (4)(b).

 (6) An applicant who, in an application under subsection (1), makes
a statement which the applicant knows to be false in a material
particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Grant or renewal of licence

 8.—(1) After considering an application for or to renew a licence,
the Licensing Officer may —

       (a) on payment of a licence fee or renewal fee (if prescribed),
            grant or renew the licence, as the case may be; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
14  NO. 27 OF 2022

       (b) refuse (without compensation) to grant or renew the
            licence, as the case may be.

 (2) The Licensing Officer must not grant or renew a licence if the
Licensing Officer is satisfied that —

       (a) the applicant is not a fit and proper person to hold a licence;
            or

       (b) a key appointment holder of the applicant is not a fit and
            proper person to act in that capacity.

 (3) In determining whether —

       (a) an applicant is a fit and proper person to hold a licence; or

       (b) a key appointment holder of an applicant is a fit and proper
            person to act in that capacity,

the Licensing Officer may have regard to, and give any weight that
the Licensing Officer considers appropriate to, any criteria and
requirements that are prescribed.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the Licensing Officer is not confined to
consideration of the criteria and requirements prescribed under
subsection (3), and may take into account any other matter or
evidence that may be relevant.

Form and validity of licence

 9.—(1) Every licence is to be in the form that the Licensing Officer
determines.

 (2) Every licence granted or renewed under this Act continues in
force for the period specified in the licence unless it is earlier revoked
under section 22(1) or suspended under section 22(2)(b) or 24(2).

 (3) A licence is not transferable or assignable to any person, and a
purported transfer or assignment of a licence, or of any rights,
benefits or privileges under the licence, is void and of no effect.

Licence conditions

 10.—(1) In granting or renewing a licence under section 8, the
Licensing Officer may impose any condition that the Licensing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           15

Officer considers requisite or expedient having regard to the purpose
of this Act.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may impose —

       (a) conditions generally applicable to all licences;

       (b) conditions specifically applicable to a class of licences; or

       (c) conditions specifically applicable to a particular licence.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a licence may include
conditions —

       (a) requiring the licensee to put in place measures to ensure
            that every debt collector of the licensee carries out any debt
            collection activity in compliance with —

               (i) all the conditions of the approval granted under
                   section 20 for the debt collector to be deployed as a
                   debt collector of the licensee;

              (ii) all the codes of practice that are applicable to the
                   licensee; and

             (iii) this Act and any other written law, including the
                   Penal Code 1871 and the Protection from
                   Harassment Act 2014; and

       (b) requiring the licensee to undergo and pass any audit that
            the Licensing Officer may determine for compliance
            with —

               (i) the provisions of this Act;

              (ii) the conditions of the licence or any approval granted
                   under section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a
                   debt collector of the licensee;

             (iii) the codes of practice that are applicable to the
                   licensee; and

             (iv) any direction given by the Licensing Officer under
                   section 11(4), 21(6), 22(2)(a), 25(2)(b) or 26(5).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
16  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (3)(b) —

       (a) the audit may be conducted only by —

               (i) an authorised officer; or

              (ii) any qualified individual or qualified audit team that
                   may be approved by the Licensing Officer for that
                   purpose; and

       (b) the Licensing Officer may require the licensee to submit to
            the Licensing Officer or to the persons conducting the audit
            any information that the Licensing Officer may specify
            which pertains to the licensee.

 (5) Without limiting subsection (1), the Licensing Officer may
grant a renewal of a licence with or without modifying the conditions
of the licence, but section 11 does not apply to or in relation to
granting a renewal of a licence with modifications to the conditions of
the licence.

Modification of conditions of licence

 11.—(1) The Licensing Officer may modify the conditions of a
licence in accordance with this section without compensating the
licensee to whom the licence is granted.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a licence, the Licensing
Officer must give notice to the licensee —

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer intends to make the
            modification in the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
            service of the notice on the licensee) within which the
            licensee may make written representations to the Licensing
            Officer with respect to the proposed modification.

 (3) On receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2)(b), the Licensing Officer must consider that
representation and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           17

       (b) amend the proposed modification in any manner that the
            Licensing Officer thinks fit having regard to the
            representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the Licensing Officer rejects any written representation
            under subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the Licensing Officer amends any proposed modification
            to the conditions of the licence under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no representation is received by the Licensing Officer
            within the time specified in subsection (2)(b), or any
            representation made under that provision is subsequently
            withdrawn, and the licensee has not given immediate effect
            to the modification,

the Licensing Officer must issue a direction in writing to the licensee
in question requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the
Licensing Officer, to give effect to the modification as specified in the
notice under subsection (2) or as amended by the Licensing Officer,
as the case may be.

Lapse of licence

 12.—(1) Unless expired or earlier revoked under section 22(1), a
licence lapses —

       (a) when the licensee ceases to exist; or

       (b) if the licensee is a sole proprietorship of which the sole
            proprietor is an individual — on the death of the sole
            proprietor.

 (2) No part of any licence fee or renewal fee may be refunded upon
the lapse of a licence under this section.

Register of licensees

 13. The Licensing Officer must cause to be kept and maintained a
register of licensees, in the form and manner and containing the
information that the Licensing Officer thinks fit.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
18  NO. 27 OF 2022

                        Division 2 — Class licences

Class licence

 14.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, determine a
class licence that authorises any person who carries on a regulated
business to carry out any debt collection activity to collect any debt
that is owed to the person in the course of the regulated business —

       (a) for a specified period or indefinitely, or to an extent
            specified in that order; and

       (b) subject to the conditions as may be specified in that order.

 (2) To avoid doubt, there may be more than one class licence
determined.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1)(b), an order made under
subsection (1) may include conditions —

       (a) restricting the manner or method by which a class licensee
            collects, or attempts to collect, any debt;

       (b) prohibiting a class licensee from collecting or attempting
            to collect any debt from any person unless the class
            licensee has first ascertained that the person is the debtor of
            the debt;

       (c) requiring a class licensee to only deploy employees of the
            class licensee as the class licensee’s debt collectors;

       (d) requiring a class licensee to put in place measures to ensure
            that every debt collector of the class licensee carries out
            any debt collection activity in compliance with —

               (i) all the conditions of the applicable class licence;

              (ii) all the codes of practice that are applicable to the
                   class licensee; and

             (iii) this Act and any other written law, including the
                   Penal Code 1871 and the Protection from
                   Harassment Act 2014;

       (e) restricting a class licensee from continuing to deploy an
            employee as the class licensee’s debt collector, if the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           19

            employee had previously failed to conduct any debt
            collection activity in compliance with —

               (i) all the conditions of the class licence that are
                   applicable to the class licensee;

              (ii) all the codes of practice that are applicable to the
                   class licensee; or

             (iii) this Act or any other written law, including the Penal
                   Code 1871 and the Protection from Harassment
                   Act 2014; and

        (f) prohibiting a class licensee from collecting debts which are
            not owed to the class licensee.

 (4) An order under subsection (1) continues in force, unless it is
revoked, for the period that may be specified in the order.

 (5) A class licensee to which an order under subsection (1) applies
may carry out any debt collection activity in respect of any debt owed
to the class licensee in the course of a regulated business carried on by
the class licensee subject to the conditions of the order being
complied with.

Variation and revocation of class licence

 15.—(1) Subject to this section, the Minister may, by order in the
Gazette, vary a class licence determined under an order made under
section 14(1) by —

       (a) varying or revoking any condition specified in the class
            licence; or

       (b) specifying additional conditions of the class licence.

 (2) Before varying a class licence determined under an order made
under section 14(1) or revoking such an order, the Minister must,
unless the Minister considers it impractical or undesirable in the
circumstances of the case, cause to be published, in accordance with
subsection (3), a written notice that —

       (a) states that the Minister proposes to vary the class licence or
            to end the class licence;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
20  NO. 27 OF 2022

       (b) describes the proposed variation or ending; and

       (c) invites interested persons to make representations about
            the proposed variation or ending by a specified date that is
            at least one month after the date of publication of the
            notice.

 (3) A notice under subsection (2) must be published on the
prescribed website or in one or more other forms that are readily
accessible by the public.

 (4) The Minister must, before varying a class licence under
subsection (1) or revoking the order, give due consideration to any
representations made to the Minister pursuant to the notice given in
accordance with subsection (2).

                      Division 3 — Codes of practice

Codes of practice

 16.—(1) The Licensing Officer may, with respect to all or any of
the matters in subsection (2), from time to time —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice applicable to all
            licensees or class licensees or a specified class of licensees
            or class licensees;

       (b) approve as a code of practice applicable to all licensees or
            class licensees or a specified class of licensees or class
            licensees any document prepared by a person other than the
            Licensing Officer, as in force at a particular time or as
            amended from time to time, if the Licensing Officer
            considers the document suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued under
            paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b).

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) are —

       (a) the conduct, duties and responsibilities of a licensee;

       (b) the conduct, duties and responsibilities of a class licensee;

       (c) the management, administration and operation of debt
            collection businesses; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           21

       (d) the manner in which debt collection activities are to be
            carried out.

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, such provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

       (a) is to have effect subject to this Act; or

       (b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

 (4) Where any code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the Licensing Officer under subsection (1), the Licensing
Officer must —

       (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice on
            the prescribed website or in one or more other forms that
            are readily accessible by the public;

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a), the date
            of the issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the
            case may be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
            copies of that code of practice are available for inspection,
            free of charge, by licensees or class licensees to whom the
            code of practice applies.

 (5) No code of practice, no amendment to any code of practice, and
no revocation of any code of practice, has any force or effect until the
notice mentioned in subsection (4) is published in accordance with
that subsection.

 (6) A code of practice issued or approved under this section does
not have any legislative effect.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), every licensee or class licensee must
comply with the codes of practice applicable to the licensee or class
licensee, as the case may be.

 (8) The Licensing Officer may, either generally or for any time that
the Licensing Officer may specify, waive the application of any code
of practice or any part of a code of practice issued or approved under
this section to any licensee or class licensee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
22  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (9) Any contravention or failure to comply by a licensee or class
licensee of or with any code of practice applicable to the licensee or
class licensee (as the case may be) does not of itself render the
licensee or class licensee (as the case may be) liable to criminal
proceedings, but any such contravention may, in any proceedings
(criminal or otherwise under this Act) in connection with an offence
under this Act, be relied on by any party to those proceedings as
tending to establish or negate any liability which is in question in
those proceedings.

                                    PART 3

                           DEBT COLLECTORS

Individuals acting as debt collectors

 17.—(1) An individual must not, on or after the start date, act as a
debt collector for a person who carries on a debt collection business
unless —

       (a) the person is a licensee which is approved to deploy the
            individual as the licensee’s debt collector under section 20;
            or

       (b) the person is the individual’s employer and is an excluded
            person.

 (2) An individual must not, on or after the start date, act as a debt
collector for a person who carries on a regulated business unless —

       (a) the person is the individual’s employer and is a class
            licensee; and

       (b) the individual is deployed by the person as the person’s
            debt collector in respect of a debt that the person is
            authorised to collect under a class licence that is applicable
            to the person.

 (3) An individual who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           23

       (b) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) In this section, “start date” means the date which falls 3 months
after the date of commencement of this section.

Deployment of individuals to perform debt collection activities
by licensees

 18.—(1) A licensee must not deploy an individual as the licensee’s
debt collector unless the Licensing Officer has granted approval
under section 20 for the individual to be deployed as a debt collector
by the licensee.

 (2) A licensee who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

       (b) where the licensee is a repeat offender — to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

Application for approval

 19.—(1) An application for approval for a licensee to deploy an
individual as a debt collector of the licensee must be made jointly by
the licensee and the individual to the Licensing Officer in accordance
with this section.

 (2) To avoid doubt —

       (a) the Licensing Officer may grant approval for an individual
            to be deployed as a debt collector of 2 or more licensees;
            but

       (b) each of the licensees mentioned in paragraph (a) must
            (jointly with the individual) make a separate application
            under subsection (1) for the Licensing Officer’s approval
            for the individual to be deployed as a debt collector of that
            licensee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
24  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be in the form and manner required by the Licensing
            Officer;

       (b) be accompanied by a non-refundable application fee
            (if prescribed) paid in the manner required by the
            Licensing Officer; and

       (c) be accompanied by any information the Licensing Officer
            requires to determine the application.

 (4) The Licensing Officer or an authorised officer may —

       (a) carry out any inquiry or investigation in relation to an
            application under subsection (1) that is necessary for a
            proper consideration by the Licensing Officer of the
            application; and

       (b) request that the applicants provide, within a specified time,
            any additional information that the Licensing Officer
            requires for a proper consideration of the application.

 (5) The Licensing Officer may refuse an application under
subsection (1) —

       (a) that is incomplete or otherwise not made in accordance
            with this section; or

       (b) if the applicants fail to provide the additional information
            requested under subsection (4)(b).

Grant of approval

 20.—(1) After considering an application for approval for an
individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a licensee, the
Licensing Officer may —

       (a) on payment of a fee (if prescribed), grant the approval; or

       (b) refuse (without compensation) to grant the approval.

 (2) The Licensing Officer must not grant approval for an
application if the Licensing Officer is satisfied that the individual
is not a fit and proper person to be deployed as a debt collector by the
licensee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           25

 (3) In determining whether an individual is a fit and proper person
to be deployed as a debt collector by the licensee, the Licensing
Officer may have regard to, and give any weight that the Licensing
Officer considers appropriate to, any criteria and requirement that is
prescribed.

 (4) To avoid doubt, the Licensing Officer is not confined to
consideration of the criteria and requirements prescribed under
subsection (3) and may take into account any other matter or evidence
that may be relevant.

Conditions of approval

 21.—(1) In granting any approval under section 20 in respect of an
individual, the Licensing Officer may impose any condition on the
licensee or the individual (or both) that the Licensing Officer
considers requisite or expedient having regard to the purpose of this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an approval granted under
section 20 may be subject to conditions —

       (a) requiring the licensee or the individual (or both) to notify
            the Licensing Officer of any change in the particulars of
            the individual in respect of whom the approval is granted;
            and

       (b) requiring the licensee to take reasonable steps to ensure
            that the individual carries out any debt collection activity in
            compliance with one or more other conditions imposed
            under subsection (1).

 (3) Subject to subsections (4), (5) and (6), it is lawful for the
Licensing Officer to modify the conditions of an approval without
compensating the licensee or the individual in respect of whom the
approval is granted.

 (4) Before modifying any conditions of an approval, the Licensing
Officer must give notice to the licensee and the individual in respect
of whom the approval is granted, respectively —

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer intends to make the
            modification in the manner specified in the notice; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
26  NO. 27 OF 2022

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
            service of the notice on the licensee and the individual or
            (where the notices are served on the licensee and the
            individual on different dates) on the later of those dates)
            within which the licensee and the individual may make
            their written representations to the Licensing Officer with
            respect to the proposed modification.

 (5) Upon receiving any written representation mentioned in
subsection (4)(b), the Licensing Officer must consider that
representation and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

       (b) amend the proposed modification in any manner that the
            Licensing Officer thinks fit having regard to the
            representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (6) Where —

       (a) the Licensing Officer rejects any written representation
            under subsection (5)(a);

       (b) the Licensing Officer amends any proposed modification
            to the conditions of the approval under subsection (5)(b);
            or

       (c) no representation is received by the Licensing Officer
            within the time specified in subsection (4)(b), or any
            representation made under that provision is subsequently
            withdrawn, and the licensee or the individual, or both
            (as the case may be) have not given immediate effect to the
            modification,

the Licensing Officer must issue a direction in writing to the licensee,
or the individual, or both (as the case may be) requiring the licensee
or the individual, or both (as the case may be), within the time
specified by the Licensing Officer, to give effect to the modification
as specified in the notice under subsection (4) or as amended by the
Licensing Officer, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           27

                                    PART 4

             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

           Division 1 — Regulatory action against licensees
                             and class licensees

Regulatory action against licensees and class licensees

 22.—(1) Subject to section 23, if the Licensing Officer is satisfied
that —

       (a) a licensee or class licensee has contravened or not
            complied with —

               (i) any condition of its licence or class licence;

              (ii) any provision of this Act applicable to the licensee or
                   class licensee, the contravention of or
                   non‑compliance with which is not an offence under
                   this Act;

             (iii) any provision of a code of practice applicable to the
                   licensee or class licensee;

             (iv) in the case of the licensee — any direction given to
                   the licensee under subsection (2)(a) or section 11(4),
                   21(6), 25(2)(b) or 26(5); or

              (v) in the case of a class licensee — any direction given
                   to the class licensee under subsection (2)(a);

       (b) a licensee or class licensee has gone or is likely to go into
            compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (c) a licensee or class licensee has made any assignment to, or
            composition with, its creditors or, if a corporation or
            limited liability partnership, is unable to pay its debts;

       (d) a licensee or class licensee has been convicted of any of the
            following offences that is committed during the term of the
            licence or class licence, as the case may be:

               (i) an offence under this Act;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
28  NO. 27 OF 2022

              (ii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
                   involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
                   involved a finding that the licensee or class licensee
                   had acted dishonestly;

             (iii) an offence specified in the Second Schedule;

       (e) the licence of a licensee had been obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

        (f) a licensee is no longer a fit and proper person to hold a
            licence, having regard to the criteria or requirements
            mentioned in section 8(3) or the matter or evidence
            mentioned in section 8(4);

       (g) a key appointment holder of a licensee is no longer a fit and
            proper person to act in that capacity, having regard to the
            criteria or requirements mentioned in section 8(3) or the
            matter or evidence mentioned in section 8(4);

       (h) a licensee has ceased to carry on the debt collection
            business; or

        (i) the public interest so requires,

the Licensing Officer may (without any compensation) revoke the
licensee’s licence or disapply the class licence with respect to that
class licensee.

 (2) However, the Licensing Officer may, in lieu of revoking a
licensee’s licence or disapplying a class licence with respect to a class
licensee under subsection (1), do (without compensation) one or more
of the following:

       (a) direct the licensee or class licensee to do, or to refrain from
            doing, the things that are specified in a direction to rectify
            any contravention or non-compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a);

       (b) suspend the licence or application of the class licence with
            respect to the class licensee for not more than 6 months;

       (c) in the case of a licensee — modify any condition of the
            licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           29

 (3) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or a class licensee for a criminal offence,
the Licensing Officer may accept the licensee’s or class licensee’s
conviction as final.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c) —

       (a) a corporation is unable to pay its debts if it is deemed to be
            so unable under section 125(2) of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018; and

       (b) a limited liability partnership is unable to pay its debts if it
            is deemed to be so unable under paragraph 3(2) of the
            Fifth Schedule to the Limited Liability Partnerships
            Act 2005.

Proceedings for regulatory action against licensees and class
licensees

 23.—(1) Before exercising any power under section 22, the
Licensing Officer must give written notice to the licensee or class
licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer intends to take regulatory
            action against the licensee or class licensee;

       (b) specifying the type of regulatory action in section 22(1) or
            (2) the Licensing Officer proposes to take, and the ground
            for taking the regulatory action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date the
            written notice is served on the licensee or class licensee)
            within which written representations may be made to the
            Licensing Officer with respect to the proposed regulatory
            action.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may decide to take the appropriate
regulatory action described in section 22(1) or (2) —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to him or
            her pursuant to the written notice mentioned in
            subsection (1); or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
30  NO. 27 OF 2022

       (b) after the time delimited in the written notice under
            subsection (1)(c) lapses, where no representation is so
            made or any representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (3) Where the Licensing Officer has made any decision under
subsection (2) against any licensee or class licensee, the Licensing
Officer must serve on the licensee or class licensee a notice of his or
her decision.

 (4) Subject to section 37, a decision to revoke a licence or disapply
a class licence under section 22(1), or to impose a regulatory action
under section 22(2), which is specified in the notice given under
subsection (1), takes effect on the date that is immediately after the
date on which that notice is given, or on any other date that may be
specified in the notice.

 (5) Any suspension or revocation of any licence of any licensee, or
any suspension of application or disapplication of a class licence with
respect to any class licensee, under section 22 does not affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the licensee or class licensee or the former licensee or
            former class licensee, as the case may be; or

       (b) the enforcement by the licensee or class licensee or the
            former licensee or former class licensee (as the case may
            be) of any right or claim against any person.

Immediate suspension of licence or application of class licence

 24.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) a licensee or class licensee is subject to criminal
            proceedings in respect of —

               (i) an offence under this Act;

              (ii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
                   involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
                   involved a finding that the licensee or class licensee
                   (as the case may be) had acted dishonestly; or

             (iii) an offence specified in the Second Schedule; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           31

       (b) the Licensing Officer is of the opinion that it is undesirable
            in the public interest for the licensee to carry on a debt
            collection business or the class licensee to carry out any
            debt collection activity mentioned in section 6(2), as the
            case may be,

and this section applies despite section 23.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may (without compensation) —

       (a) in the case of a licensee — serve on the licensee a notice of
            immediate suspension of the licensee’s licence; or

       (b) in the case of a class licensee — serve on the class licensee
            a notice of immediate suspension of application of the
            relevant class licence with respect to the class licensee,

which takes immediate effect and remains in force until the Licensing
Officer makes an order under subsection (5)(a) or any appeal to the
Minister under section 37 against an order under subsection (5)(b) is
determined.

 (3) The licensee or class licensee must, upon a notice being served
under subsection (2) but subject to subsection (5), immediately cease
to carry on the debt collection business or carry out the debt collection
activity mentioned in section 6(2), as the case may be.

 (4) A licensee or class licensee who is served with a notice under
subsection (2) may, within 14 days after being served with the notice,
apply to the Licensing Officer to review his or her decision under
subsection (5).

 (5) The Licensing Officer may, on reviewing his or her decision, by
order —

       (a) rescind the immediate suspension of the licensee’s licence
            or the immediate suspension of application of the class
            licence with respect to the class licensee; or

       (b) refuse to rescind the immediate suspension of the
            licensee’s licence or the immediate suspension of
            application of the class licence with respect to the class
            licensee.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
32  NO. 27 OF 2022

 Division 2 — Regulatory action against approved debt collectors

Regulatory action in respect of approved individuals

 25.—(1) Subject to section 26, the Licensing Officer may (without
compensation) cancel an approval granted under section 20 for an
individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a licensee on any of
the following grounds:

       (a) any ground that would have entitled the Licensing Officer
            to refuse an application for approval in respect of the
            individual;

       (b) the individual is, in the opinion of the Licensing Officer, no
            longer a fit and proper person to be deployed by the
            licensee as the licensee’s debt collector, having regard to
            the criteria or requirements mentioned in section 20(3) or
            the matter or evidence mentioned in section 20(4);

       (c) the approval had been obtained by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (d) the individual has (during the period of approval) been —

               (i) convicted of an offence under this Act;

              (ii) convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of an
                   offence involving dishonesty or the conviction for
                   which involved a finding that the individual had
                   acted dishonestly;

             (iii) convicted of an offence specified in the
                   Second Schedule; or

             (iv) ordered to be detained under Part 5 of the Criminal
                   Law (Temporary Provisions) Act 1955 or Chapter 2
                   of Part 2 of the Internal Security Act 1960;

       (e) the licensee or individual has contravened or not complied
            with —

               (i) any condition of the approval that is applicable to the
                   licensee or individual, as the case may be;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           33

              (ii) any provision of this Act applicable to the licensee or
                   individual, the contravention of or non‑compliance
                   with which is not an offence under this Act; or

             (iii) any direction issued under subsection (2)(b) or
                   section 26(5).

 (2) However, the Licensing Officer may, in lieu of cancelling the
approval, do (without compensation) one or more of the following:

       (a) modify any condition of the approval;

       (b) direct the licensee or individual to do, or to refrain from
            doing, the things that are specified in a direction to rectify
            any contravention or non‑compliance mentioned in
            subsection (1)(e);

       (c) suspend the approval in respect of the individual carrying
            out all or any debt collection activities for not more than
            6 months.

 (3) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of an individual for a criminal offence, the Licensing
Officer may accept the individual’s conviction as final.

Proceedings for regulatory action in respect of approved
individuals

 26.—(1) Before exercising any power under section 25, the
Licensing Officer must give written notice to the licensee and the
individual concerned, respectively —

       (a) stating that the Licensing Officer intends to take regulatory
            action under section 25;

       (b) specifying the type of regulatory action in section 25(1) or
            (2) that the Licensing Officer proposes to take, and the
            ground for taking the regulatory action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date the
            written notice is served on the licensee and the individual
            or (where the written notice is served on the licensee and
            the individual on different dates) the later of those dates)
            within which written representations may be made to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
34  NO. 27 OF 2022

            Licensing Officer with respect to the proposed regulatory
            action.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may decide to take the appropriate
regulatory action described in section 25(1) or (2) —

       (a) after considering any written representation made to him or
            her pursuant to the written notice mentioned in
            subsection (1); or

       (b) after the time delimited in the written notice under
            subsection (1)(c) lapses, where no representation is so
            made or any representation made is subsequently
            withdrawn.

 (3) Where the Licensing Officer has made any decision under
subsection (2), the Licensing Officer must serve on the licensee and
the individual concerned a notice of the Licensing Officer’s decision.

 (4) Subject to section 37, a decision under section 25(1) to cancel an
approval granted under section 20 for an individual to be deployed as
a debt collector of a licensee, or to impose a regulatory action in
section 25(2), which is specified in the notice given under
subsection (1), takes effect on the date that is immediately after the
date on which that notice is given, or on any other date that may be
specified in the notice.

 (5) In the case of the suspension of any approval granted under
section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a
licensee, the Licensing Officer may (without compensation), in
addition to the notice mentioned in subsection (3), issue any direction
to the licensee or the individual, or both, that the Licensing Officer
thinks fit.

 (6) Without limiting subsection (5), the Licensing Officer may
issue a direction to the licensee under that subsection requiring the
licensee to —

       (a) put in place measures, including proper training, to ensure
            that the licensee’s debt collectors understand and comply
            with this Act and do not conduct debt collection activities
            in a manner that would contravene other written laws,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           35

            including the Penal Code 1871 and the Protection from
            Harassment Act 2014; or

       (b) keep proper records of any matter that relates to the
            deployment of the licensee’s debt collectors.

 (7) Any suspension or cancellation of an approval granted under
section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a
licensee does not affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the individual; or

       (b) the enforcement by the individual of any right or claim
            against any person.

Immediate suspension of approval

 27.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) an individual in respect of whom approval has been
            granted under section 20 for the individual to be deployed
            as a debt collector of a licensee, is subject to criminal
            proceedings in respect of —

               (i) an offence under this Act;

              (ii) an offence, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
                   involving dishonesty or the conviction for which
                   involved a finding that the individual had acted
                   dishonestly; or

             (iii) an offence specified in the Second Schedule; and

       (b) the Licensing Officer is of the opinion that it is undesirable
            in the public interest for the individual to continue to act as
            the licensee’s debt collector,

and this section applies despite section 26.

 (2) The Licensing Officer may (without compensation) serve on the
individual and the licensee which deploys the individual as a debt
collector with the Licensing Officer’s approval granted under
section 20, a notice of immediate suspension of the approval which
takes immediate effect and remains in force until the Licensing

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
36  NO. 27 OF 2022

Officer makes an order under subsection (6)(a) or any appeal to the
Minister under section 37 against an order under subsection (6)(b) is
determined.

 (3) The individual must, upon a notice being served on him or her
under subsection (2) but subject to subsection (6), immediately cease
to act as the licensee’s debt collector.

 (4) The licensee must, upon a notice being served on it under
subsection (2) but subject to subsection (6), immediately cease to
deploy the individual as a debt collector.

 (5) An individual who is served with a notice under subsection (2)
may, within 14 days after being served with the notice, apply to the
Licensing Officer to review his or her decision under subsection (6).

 (6) The Licensing Officer may, on reviewing his or her decision, by
order —

       (a) rescind the immediate suspension of the approval granted
            under section 20 for the individual to be deployed as a debt
            collector of the licensee; or

       (b) refuse to rescind the immediate suspension of that
            approval.

Notification of cessation of deployment of debt collectors

 28.—(1) A licensee must notify the Licensing Officer of the
cessation of the deployment of any individual as a debt collector of
the licensee not later than the prescribed time after the cessation of the
deployment.

 (2) On receipt of a notification made under subsection (1), the
Licensing Officer must cancel the approval granted under section 20
for the individual to be deployed by the licensee.

 (3) A licensee who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           37

                    Division 3 — Enforcement powers

Purpose for which enforcement powers are exercisable

 29.—(1) An inspecting officer may exercise the powers set out in
this Division for any of the following purposes:

       (a) to determine compliance with this Act, including whether
            an offence under this Act has been committed;

       (b) to determine compliance with any condition of a licence or
            class licence;

       (c) to determine compliance with any direction issued by the
            Licensing Officer under this Act;

       (d) to determine compliance with any condition of an approval
            granted under section 20 for an individual to be deployed
            as a debt collector of a licensee;

       (e) to determine whether information provided to an
            inspecting officer or a compliance officer under a
            provision of this Act is correct;

        (f) to investigate whether there is any ground for —

               (i) taking any regulatory action under section 22 against
                   a licensee or class licensee; or

              (ii) taking any regulatory action under section 25 in
                   respect of an approval granted under section 20 for
                   an individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a
                   licensee.

 (2) A compliance officer may exercise the powers set out in this
Division where specified, but subject to section 4 in respect of the
compliance officer; and any reference in this Division to a
compliance officer is a reference to a compliance officer who is so
authorised.

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 30.—(1) An inspecting officer or a compliance officer may, in
accordance with subsections (3) and (4), enter any premises occupied
by a relevant person which the inspecting officer or compliance

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
38  NO. 27 OF 2022

officer reasonably believes are used for or in connection with the
conduct of any debt collection business or regulated business, and do
all or any of the following at the premises:

       (a) examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the premises;

       (b) make a still or moving image or recording of the premises
            and any thing in or on the premises;

       (c) inspect any document in or on the premises and take
            extracts from, or make copies of, any such document;

       (d) take into or onto the premises any equipment and material
            that the inspecting officer or compliance officer requires
            for the purpose of exercising any power in relation to the
            premises;

       (e) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

        (f) require any individual found in or on the premises to
            answer any question (to the best of that individual’s
            knowledge, information and belief) and to provide any
            document or information that the inspecting officer or
            compliance officer reasonably requires for any of the
            purposes of section 29(1).

 (2) The inspecting officer mentioned in subsection (1) may also, in
accordance with subsection (4) —

       (a) search the premises and any thing in or on the premises;

       (b) secure a thing for a period not exceeding 24 hours if the
            thing is found in or on the premises, where the inspecting
            officer believes on reasonable grounds that —

               (i) the thing is evidential material that the inspecting
                   officer reasonably requires for any of the purposes of
                   section 29(1); and

              (ii) it is necessary to secure the thing in order to prevent
                   it from being concealed, lost or destroyed before a
                   warrant to seize the thing is obtained; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           39

       (c) seize any thing found in or on the premises which the
            inspecting officer reasonably suspects is as described in
            paragraph (b)(i).

 (3) A compliance officer is not authorised to enter any premises
which are not premises mentioned in subsection (1) to exercise any
power mentioned in that provision except —

       (a) with the consent of the occupier; or

       (b) under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District Court.

 (4) An inspecting officer —

       (a) is not authorised to enter any premises which are not
            premises mentioned in subsection (1) to exercise any
            power mentioned in subsection (1) or (2)(a) or (b),
            except —

               (i) with the consent of the occupier; or

              (ii) under a warrant of a Magistrate’s Court or District
                   Court; and

       (b) is not authorised to seize any thing in or on any premises
            unless the seizure is made under a warrant of a Magistrate’s
            Court or District Court.

 (5) A warrant mentioned in subsection (3) may be issued if a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court is satisfied that it is necessary for
a compliance officer to enter any premises to exercise any power
mentioned in subsection (1) for any of the purposes of section 29(1).

 (6) A warrant mentioned in subsection (4) may be issued if a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court is satisfied that it is necessary for
an inspecting officer to enter any premises to exercise any power
mentioned in subsection (1) or (2)(a) or (b) or seize any thing (as the
case may be) for any of the purposes of section 29(1).

 (7) The power under subsection (1)(e) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
40  NO. 27 OF 2022

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises.

 (8) The power under subsection (2)(b) to secure any thing which is
found during the exercise of enforcement powers in or on any
premises includes the power —

       (a) to secure the thing by locking it up, placing a guard or any
            other means; and

       (b) to prohibit any person from dealing with the thing.

 (9) The power to require an individual to provide any document or
information under subsection (1)(f) includes the power —

       (a) to require that individual to provide an explanation of the
            document or information;

       (b) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            that individual to state, to the best of the individual’s
            knowledge and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            inspecting officer or compliance officer in legible form.

 (10) In this section, “relevant person” means —

       (a) a person to whom a licence is or was granted;

       (b) a person who is or was a class licensee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           41

       (c) an individual who is or was a key appointment holder of a
            person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

       (d) an individual who is or was deployed as a debt collector of
            a person mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

       (e) an individual who is or was employed in any capacity
            (other than as a debt collector) by a person mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or (b); or

        (f) a person whom an inspecting officer or a compliance
            officer suspects on reasonable grounds has committed an
            offence under this Act.

Powers of investigation

 31.—(1) An inspecting officer or a compliance officer may do all or
any of the following:

       (a) where the inspecting officer or compliance officer
            reasonably believes a person to have committed an
            offence under this Act or contravened any provision of
            this Act — require that person to provide evidence of that
            person’s identity;

       (b) require any person whom the inspecting officer or
            compliance officer reasonably believes has —

               (i) any information; or

              (ii) any document or article in the person’s possession,
                   custody or control,

       (b) that the inspecting officer or compliance officer reasonably
            requires for any of the purposes of section 29(1), to
            provide, within a reasonable period specified by the
            inspecting officer or compliance officer, that information
            or produce that document or article, and to provide an
            explanation of the information or document;

       (c) issue a written notice requiring any person within the limits
            of Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts
            or circumstances of a matter that is relevant to any of the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
42  NO. 27 OF 2022

            purposes of section 29(1), to attend before an inspecting
            officer or compliance officer;

       (d) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with the facts or circumstances of a matter that is relevant
            to any of the purposes of section 29(1) —

               (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
                   charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; and

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter.

 (2) The power to require a person to provide any information,
document or article under subsection (1)(b) includes the power —

       (a) if the information, document or article is not provided, to
            require the person to state, to the best of the knowledge and
            belief of the person, where it is; and

       (b) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            inspecting officer or compliance officer in legible form.

 (3) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the matter,
except that the person need not say anything that might expose the
person to a criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.

 (4) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
            a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

 (5) If any person fails to comply with a written notice issued to the
person under subsection (1)(c), an inspecting officer or a compliance
officer may report the failure to a Magistrate who may then, in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           43

Magistrate’s discretion, issue a warrant ordering that person to
comply with the written notice.

 (6) An inspecting officer or a compliance officer may make copies
of any document or article produced under subsection (1)(b) for
further investigation.

 (7) An inspecting officer may take possession of any document or
article produced under subsection (1)(b) for further investigation.

Application of Criminal Procedure Code 2010

 32. Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010 apply, with the necessary modifications, when an
inspecting officer seizes any thing under this Division.

Offences to be arrestable

 33. Every offence under the following provisions is arrestable for
the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010:

       (a) section 6(5) in respect of a contravention of section 6(1);

       (b) section 17(3).

Offences

 34.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by an inspecting officer or a
compliance officer under section 30(1) or 31(1)(a) or (b), or by notice
under section 31(1)(c), shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            document, information or article which the person has
            been required by an inspecting officer or a compliance
            officer under section 30(1)(f) or 31(1)(b) to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any document, information or article
            required by an inspecting officer or a compliance officer
            under section 30(1)(f) or 31(1)(b), makes any statement
            which the person knows or ought reasonably to know that,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
44  NO. 27 OF 2022

            or is reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a
            material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall be liable
on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the person —

       (a) does not possess the document, information or article
            required; or

       (b) has taken all reasonable steps available to the person to
            obtain the document, information or article required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (5) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or article or answer any question
if doing so might tend to incriminate that person.

Composition of offences

 35.—(1) The Licensing Officer or an authorised officer may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION  45

 (2) On payment of the sum of money under subsection (1), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 5

                                   APPEALS

Interpretation of this Part

 36. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the Licensing Officer:

              (a) a decision refusing the grant or renewal of a licence
                   under section 8;

              (b) a decision under section 10 imposing a condition in a
                   licensee’s licence;

              (c) a modification under section 11 of a condition in a
                   licensee’s licence;

              (d) the issue, approval or amendment of a code of
                   practice applicable to a licensee or class licensee
                   under section 16, in respect of any provision in the
                   code of practice;

              (e) a decision refusing the grant of an approval under
                   section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a debt
                   collector of a licensee;

              (f) a decision under section 21(1) imposing a condition
                   in respect of an approval granted under section 20 for
                   an individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a
                   licensee;

              (g) a modification under section 21(3) of a condition in
                   respect of an approval granted under section 20 for an
                   individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a
                   licensee;

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
46  NO. 27 OF 2022

            (h) a decision under section 22(1) to revoke a licence or
                 disapply a class licence;

            (i) a decision under section 22(2) to impose a regulatory
                 action against a licensee or class licensee;

            (j) a decision under section 24(5)(b) to refuse to rescind
                 the immediate suspension of a licensee’s licence or
                 immediate suspension of application of a class
                 licence with respect to a class licensee;

            (k) a decision under section 25(1) to cancel an approval
                 granted under section 20 for an individual to be
                 deployed as a debt collector of a licensee;

            (l) a decision under section 25(2) to take regulatory
                 action in respect of an approval granted under
                 section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a
                 debt collector of a licensee;

           (m) a decision under section 27(6)(b) to refuse to rescind
                 the immediate suspension of an approval granted
                 under section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a
                 debt collector of a licensee;

    “appellant” means any of the following in relation to the
       following appealable decisions:

            (a) an applicant for the grant or renewal of a licence,
                 where the appealable decision is within paragraph (a)
                 of the definition of “appealable decision”;

            (b) a licensee, where the appealable decision is within
                 paragraph (b) or (c) of the definition of “appealable
                 decision”;

            (c) a licensee or class licensee, where the appealable
                 decision is within paragraph (d) of the definition of
                 “appealable decision”;

            (d) the applicants for the grant of an approval under
                 section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a debt
                 collector of a licensee, where the appealable decision

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           47

                   is within paragraph (e) of the definition of
                   “appealable decision”;

              (e) the grantees of the grant of an approval under
                   section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a
                   debt collector of a licensee, where the appealable
                   decision is within paragraph (f) or (g) of the
                   definition of “appealable decision”;

              (f) a licensee or former licensee or a class licensee or
                   former class licensee, where the appealable decision
                   is within paragraph (h), (i) or (j) of the definition of
                   “appealable decision”;

              (g) the grantees or former grantees of the grant of an
                   approval under section 20 for an individual to be
                   deployed as a debt collector of a licensee, where the
                   appealable decision is within paragraph (k), (l) or (m)
                   of the definition of “appealable decision”;

      “Minister of State” means a Minister of State or Senior Minister
         of State assisting the Minister on matters within the purposes
         of this Act;

      “Parliamentary Secretary” includes a Senior Parliamentary
         Secretary appointed to assist the Minister in the discharge
         of the Minister’s duties and functions under this Act;

      “Second Minister” means the Second Minister to the Minister,
         if any.

Appeal to Minister

 37.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision
may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and must be made within 14 days after
the date the decision appealed against is served.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
48  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (4) After considering an appeal, the Minister may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Licensing Officer’s
            decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the Licensing
            Officer’s decision.

 (5) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

 (6) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (4).

 (7) An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

Designation of others to hear appeals

 38. The Minister may designate a Second Minister, Minister of
State or Parliamentary Secretary to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeal or a specific appeal under section 37; and
any reference in that section to the Minister includes a reference to the
Second Minister, Minister of State or Parliamentary Secretary so
designated for that appeal.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Offences by corporations

 39.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           49

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
50  NO. 27 OF 2022

(6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
        partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
        officer of the corporation, and includes —

            (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

            (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                 members, any of those members as if the member
                 were a director of the corporation;

    “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
        includes, but is not limited to, any action (if any) of the
        following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

            (a) action towards —

                    (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                        the provision creating the offence; and

                   (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                        professional assessments of its compliance
                        with the provision;

            (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                 employees, agents and contractors are provided
                 with information, training, instruction and
                 supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                 comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                 as the provision is relevant to them;

            (c) action towards ensuring that —

                    (i) the equipment and other resources; and

                   (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                        processes,

            (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                 the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

            (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                 culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           51

                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 40.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
52  NO. 27 OF 2022

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           53

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 39(6)
         except that any reference to the corporation is a reference to
         the unincorporated association or a partnership mentioned in
         subsection (2);

      “state of mind” has the meaning given by section 39(6).

Jurisdiction of courts

 41. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has the power to impose the full punishment for that offence.

Service of documents

 42.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
54  NO. 27 OF 2022

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (5) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
            to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
            the body corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received — on the day of
            transmission;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           55

       (b) if the document is sent by email — at the time that the
            email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to
            whom it is sent; or

       (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post — 2 days
            after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
            undelivered).

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior consent (express or
implied) to service in that way.

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
         to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

General exemption

 43. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to the conditions that the
Minister may impose.

Amendment of Schedules

 44.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary Part 1 of the First Schedule or the Second Schedule.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
56  NO. 27 OF 2022

 (2) The Minister may, in an order under subsection (1), make
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order that the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

 (3) All orders made under subsection (1) are to be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 45.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) In particular, the Minister may make regulations for any of the
following:

       (a) classes of licences;

       (b) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for the grant or renewal of a licence may be
            made, and the information and evidence required to be
            provided in connection with such an application;

       (c) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for the Licensing Officer’s approval under
            section 20 for an individual to be deployed as a debt
            collector of a licensee may be made, and the information
            and evidence required to be provided in connection with
            such an application;

       (d) the carrying out of inquiries and investigations of
            applicants;

       (e) the duties and responsibilities of licensees, including
            putting in place measures to ensure that their debt
            collectors comply with their duties and responsibilities;

        (f) the duties and responsibilities of the licensees’ debt
            collectors;

       (g) the duties and responsibilities of class licensees;

       (h) the conduct of the licensees or class licensees, and their
            debt collectors, in collecting debts;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           57

 (i) restricting the manner or methods by which a licensee or
     any of its debt collectors, collect, or attempt to collect, any
     debt;

 (j) prohibiting a licensee or any of its debt collectors, from
     collecting or attempting to collect any debt from any
     person unless the licensee or debt collector has first
     ascertained that the person is the person asserted by the
     creditor of the debt to be the debtor of that debt;

(k) prohibiting a licensee from recovering, or attempting to
     recover from any debtor, any remuneration or payment in
     connection with the collection of a debt, unless —

        (i) the licensee is recovering or attempting to recover on
            behalf of the creditor of the debt enforcement
            expenses reasonably incurred by the creditor; and

       (ii) a term of an agreement between the creditor and the
            debtor permits the recovery of those expenses;

 (l) prohibiting a licensee or class licensee or any of its debt
     collectors, from collecting or attempting to collect any debt
     from any person if the debtor has informed the licensee or
     class licensee (in the prescribed manner) that the debt is in
     dispute, or the debtor wishes to settle the debt through
     other means including mediation or court proceedings and
     has taken the prescribed measures to initiate such means;

(m) prohibiting a licensee from recovering, or attempting to
     recover, from a person who engaged the licensee to collect
     a debt, the costs incurred by the licensee in collecting the
     debt, unless a term of an agreement between the licensee
     and the person permits the recovery of those costs;

(n) restricting the manner in which, or the arrangement under
     which, a licensee may charge fees or charges for collecting
     a debt for a person;

(o) the fees to be paid in respect of —

        (i) applications for and the grant of a licence;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
58  NO. 27 OF 2022

            (ii) applications for the renewal or late renewal of a
                  licence; and

            (iii) applications for approval under section 20 for an
                  individual to be deployed as a debt collector of a
                  licensee,

      (o) and otherwise in connection with the administration of this
           Act, and the waiver, reduction or refund of such fees;

      (p) the records that must be kept by licensees and the provision
           by licensees of returns and other information with respect
           to the debt collection businesses carried on by those
           licensees;

      (q) the records that must be kept by class licensees and the
           provision by class licensees of returns and other
           information with respect to debt collection activities
           carried on by those class licensees;

      (r) the procedure for appeals under this Act;

      (s) all matters and things required or permitted to be
           prescribed under or for the purposes of this Act.

(3) Regulations made under this section may —

      (a) prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
           compounded;

      (b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
           regulations shall be an offence punishable —

             (i) with a fine not exceeding $10,000 or with
                  imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months
                  or with both; but

            (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — with a fine
                  not exceeding $20,000 or with imprisonment for a
                  term not exceeding 2 years or with both; and

      (c) provide for such saving, transitional, and other
           consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
           are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           59

Saving and transitional provisions

 46.—(1) Despite anything in this Act, every person who —

       (a) immediately before the section 6 start date was carrying on
            a debt collection business or any debt collection activity in
            the course of the business; and

       (b) on or after the section 6 start date, would be required under
            section 6(1) to be authorised to carry on the debt collection
            business by a licence,

may continue carrying on the debt collection business or the debt
collection activity on or after the section 6 start date for the period
mentioned in subsection (2), if the person has applied for a licence to
carry on a debt collection business before the section 6 start date and
the application has not been granted, refused or withdrawn before that
date.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the period is a period ending
on the happening of the earlier of the following:

       (a) the date on which the Licensing Officer grants a licence to
            the person;

       (b) the date that the application for licence is finally refused or
            withdrawn.

 (3) Despite anything in this Act, every individual who, immediately
before the section 17 start date, was deployed by a person mentioned
in subsection (1) (called in this section the principal) as a debt
collector of the principal, may continue to be so deployed on or after
the section 17 start date for the period mentioned in subsection (4), if
the principal has applied for a licence to carry on a debt collection
business before the section 17 start date and the application has not
been granted, refused or withdrawn before that date.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the period is —

       (a) a period ending on the date that the principal’s application
            for a licence is finally refused or withdrawn; or

       (b) where the Licensing Officer grants a licence to the
            principal —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
60  NO. 27 OF 2022

               (i) 3 months after the licence is granted to the principal
                   (now also the licensee); or

              (ii) if within the period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i),
                   an application for approval for the licensee to deploy
                   the individual as a debt collector of the licensee is
                   made under section 19 — the period that ends on the
                   happening of the earlier of the following:

                    (A) the date on which the Licensing Officer grants
                          the approval;

                     (B) the date on which the application for approval
                          is finally refused or withdrawn.

 (5) For a period of 2 years after the commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe
additional provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on
the enactment of the provision that the Minister may consider
necessary or expedient.

 (6) In this section —

      “section 6 start date” means the date mentioned in section 6(6);

      “section 17 start date” means the date mentioned in
         section 17(4).

    FIRST SCHEDULE

                    Sections 2(1) and 44(1)

                                          PART 1
                                EXCLUDED PERSONS
1. An excluded person is —
       (a) any of the following persons, when acting in that capacity:
                (i) the Official Assignee;
               (ii) the Official Receiver;
               (iii) a licensed insolvency practitioner;
               (iv) a regulated legal practitioner;
                (v) a regulated non-practitioner;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
                     DEBT COLLECTION                      61

                     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) a Joint Law Venture;

(c) a licensed foreign law practice;

(d) a Qualifying Foreign Law Practice;

(e) a Singapore law practice;

(ea) an accounting corporation;

                                        [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

(eb) an accounting firm;

                                        [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

(ec) an accounting limited liability partnership;

                                                                           [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

(ed) a chartered accountant, when acting in that capacity;

                                                                           [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

(ee) a public accountant, when acting in that capacity;

                                                                           [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

(f) a person who purchases a debt or debts through acquiring or merging
    with a business (other than a debt collection business) in a transaction
    that includes the transfer of accounts receivable; or

(g) a person who acquires a debt or debts through the seizure of accounts
     receivable under a security agreement.

2. In paragraph 1 —

“accounting corporation”, “accounting firm”, “accounting limited liability
   partnership” and “public accountant” have the meanings given by
   section 2(1) of the Accountants Act 2004;

                                        [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

“chartered accountant” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority Act 2004;

                                        [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

“Joint Law Venture”, “licensed foreign law practice”, “Qualifying Foreign
   Law Practice”, “regulated legal practitioner”, “regulated
   non‑practitioner” and “Singapore law practice” have the meanings
   given by section 2(1) of the Legal Profession Act 1966;

“licensed insolvency practitioner”, “Official Assignee” and “Official
   Receiver” have the meanings given by section 2(1) of the Insolvency,
   Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
62                      NO. 27 OF 2022

                          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

                                          PART 2

                             REGULATED BUSINESSES

1. A regulated business is any of the following:

       (a) a banking business conducted by a bank;

       (b) a permitted business conducted by a merchant bank;

       (c) a business of issuing credit cards or charge cards conducted by a
            licensed credit card or charge card issuer;

       (d) a financing business conducted by a finance company;

       (e) a business of moneylending conducted by a licensed moneylender or
            an exempt moneylender.

2. In paragraph 1 —

    “bank”, “banking business” and “merchant bank” have the meanings given
        by section 2(1) of the Banking Act 1970;

    “credit card” and “charge card” have the meanings given by section 56 of the
        Banking Act 1970;

    “exempt moneylender” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
        Moneylenders Act 2008;

    “finance company” and “financing business” have the meanings given by
        section 2 of the Finance Companies Act 1967;

    “licensed credit card or charge card issuer” means a person who is granted a
        licence to carry on the business of issuing credit cards or charge cards in
        Singapore under section 57B of the Banking Act 1970;

    “licensed moneylender” means a holder of a licence issued or renewed under
        the Moneylenders Act 2008;

    “permitted business” has the meaning given by section 55Q of the Banking
        Act 1970.

    SECOND SCHEDULE

                                        Sections 22(1)(d)(iii), 24(1)(a)(iii),
                                        25(1)(d)(iii), 27(1)(a)(iii) and 44(1)

1. Any offence under —

    (a) section 144, 145, 147, 148, 152, 158, 304, 304A, 307, 308, 308A, 323,
         323A, 324, 325, 326, 327, 328, 329, 332, 333, 335, 335B, 342, 347,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
DEBT COLLECTION                                           63

                         SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

            353, 356, 384, 385, 386, 387, 388, 389, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396, 397,
            399, 402, 435, 436, 440, 459, 460 or 506 of the Penal Code 1871;

                                                                                   [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

       (b) Chapter 5 of the Penal Code 1871 for the abetment of an offence
            mentioned in this paragraph or paragraph 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8;

        (c) section 300(a), read with section 302(1), of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (d) section 300(b) or (c), read with section 302(2), of the Penal Code 1871.

  2. Any offence under —

       (a) section 3, 4, 9, 10, 13, 14, 27A or 33 of the Criminal Law (Temporary
            Provisions) Act 1955;

       (b) section 17 of the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act 1955, in
            respect of any provision mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a); or

        (c) section 20 of the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act 1955 for
            the abetment of an offence mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a) or (b).

  3. Any offence under —

       (a) section 4, 5, 6, 7, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 or 27 of the Internal Security
            Act 1960; or

       (b) section 39 of the Internal Security Act 1960 for the abetment of an
            offence mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a).

3A. An offence under section 11(1)(a) of the Miscellaneous Offences (Public
     Order and Nuisance) Act 1906.

                                                                                   [S 723/2023 wef 01/12/2023]

  4. Any offence under section 19, 47 or 49 of the Moneylenders Act 2008.

  5. Any offence under section 5, 6, 7, 12 or 13 of the Organised Crime Act 2015.

  6. Any offence under section 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of the Protection from Harassment
     Act 2014.

  7. Any offence under section 14, 16, 18 or 23 of the Societies Act 1966.

  8. An offence under section 3 of the Vandalism Act 1966.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/12/2023
