THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                   TRADE MARKS ACT 1998

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Trade Marks Act 1998

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         General interpretation
     1.  Meaning of infringing goods, material or articles and counterfeit
     2.  goods or trade mark
     3.

                                       PART 2
                   REGISTRATION OF TRADE MARKS

                                    Introductory
4. Registered trade marks

                  Application for registration of trade mark

5. Application for registration
5A. Division of application for registration
6. Classification of goods and services

                      Grounds for refusal of registration

7. Absolute grounds for refusal of registration
8. Relative grounds for refusal of registration
9. Raising of relative grounds in case of honest concurrent use

                                        Priority

10. Claim to priority of Convention application
11. Claim to priority from other relevant overseas application

                               Registration procedure

12. Examination of application
13. Publication and opposition proceedings
14. Withdrawal, restriction or amendment of application

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                       2

Section
   15. Registration
   16. Revocation of acceptance

                                Series of trade marks
17. Registration of series of trade marks

         Duration, renewal and alteration of registered trade mark

18. Duration of registration
19. Renewal of registration
20. Alteration of registered trade mark

                     Cancellation, revocation and invalidity

21. Cancellation of registered trade mark
22. Revocation of registration
23. Grounds for invalidity of registration
24. Effect of acquiescence

                                    Miscellaneous
25. Amendment of other documents

                                        PART 3

             RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF PROPRIETOR OF
                         REGISTERED TRADE MARK

                  Rights of proprietor of registered trade mark

26. Rights conferred by registered trade mark
27. Acts amounting to infringement of registered trade mark
28. Acts not amounting to infringement
29. Exhaustion of rights conferred by registered trade mark
30. Registration subject to disclaimer or limitation

                             Infringement proceedings

31. Action for infringement
32. Order for erasure, etc., of offending sign
33. Order for delivery up of infringing goods, material or articles
34. Order as to disposal of infringing goods, material or articles
35. Remedy for groundless threats of infringement proceedings

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
3        Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

         PART 4

         REGISTERED TRADE MARK AS OBJECT OF PROPERTY

Section  Nature of registered trade mark
         Co-ownership of registered trade mark
   36.   Assignment, etc., of registered trade mark
   37.   Registration of transactions affecting registered trade mark
   38.   Trusts and equities
   39.   Application for registration of trade mark as object of property
   40.
   41.

                                           PART 5

                                        LICENSING

   42. Licensing of registered trade mark
   43. Exclusive licences
   44. General provisions as to rights of licensees in case of

            infringement
   45. Exclusive licensee having rights and remedies of assignee

                                           PART 6

                                         OFFENCES

   46. Counterfeiting a trade mark
   47. Falsely applying a registered trade mark to goods or services
   48. Making or possessing of article for committing offence
   49. Importing or selling, etc., goods with falsely applied trade mark
   50. Falsification of register, etc.
   51. Falsely representing trade mark as registered
   52. Representation on trade marks of Arms or Flags prohibited, etc.
   53. Forfeiture and destruction of goods, etc., on conviction
   53A. Enforcement measures

                                           PART 7
                             INTERNATIONAL MATTERS

                                The Madrid Protocol, etc.
   54. Power to make provision giving effect to Madrid Protocol, etc.

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                              4

           The Paris Convention, the TRIPS Agreement and
          well known trade marks: supplementary provisions

Section   Protection of well known trade marks
   55.    Permitted use of well known trade marks
   55A.   National emblems, etc., of Convention countries: Article 6ter of
   56.    Paris Convention, etc.
          Emblems, etc., of certain international organisations:
   57.    Article 6ter of Paris Convention, etc.
          Notification under Article 6ter of Paris Convention, etc.
   58.    Acts of agent or representative: Article 6septies of the Paris
   59.    Convention, etc.

                                        PART 8
         COLLECTIVE MARKS AND CERTIFICATION MARKS

60. Collective marks
61. Certification marks

                                        PART 9

                       ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER
                       SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

                                     The Registrar

62. Registrar of Trade Marks and other officers
63. Delegation by Registrar
64. Registry of Trade Marks
65. Seal of Registry

                                     The Register

66. The register
67. Rectification of register
68. Inspection of and extract from register

                          Powers and duties of Registrar

69. Costs awarded by Registrar
70. Security for costs
71. Evidence before Registrar
72. Disobedience to summons an offence
73. Refusal to give evidence an offence

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
5  Trade Marks Act 1998                                            2020 Ed.

Section
   74. Exclusion of liability in respect of official acts
   75. Appeals from Registrar

                   Forms, fees, hours of business and publication

   76. Forms and directions of Registrar
   77. Fees
   78. Hours of business and excluded days
   79. Publication of trade mark applications, etc.

                                     Trade mark agents
   80. Recognition of agents

                                          PART 10

                   ASSISTANCE BY BORDER AUTHORITIES

                          Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

   81. Interpretation of this Part
   81A. Administration of this Part
   81B. Fees

                       Division 2 — Seizure of goods on request

   82. Restriction of importation or exportation of infringing goods
   83. Security for liability or expense of seizure, storage and disposal
   84. Secure storage of seized goods
   85. Notice of seizure
   85A. Persons bound to give information or produce documents
   85B. Information on import or export
   86. Inspection, release, etc., of seized goods
   87. Forfeiture of seized goods by consent
   88. Compulsory release of seized goods to importer or exporter
   89. Compensation for failure to take action
   90. Actions for infringement of registered trade mark
   91. Retention of control of seized goods
   92. Disposal of seized goods
   93. Insufficient security

                       Division 3 — Ex-officio seizure of goods

   93A. Seizure and inspection of counterfeit goods
   93B. Requirements for continued detention

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                      6

Section   Notice to take action
          Persons bound to give information or produce documents
   93C.   Information on import or export
   93D.   Forfeiture of seized goods by consent
   93E.   Compulsory release of seized goods to dealer
   93F.   Provisions relating to infringement action
   93G.   Compensation for failure to take action
   93H.   Retention of control of seized goods
   93I.   Disposal of seized goods
   93J.   Insufficient security
   93K.
   93L.

          Division 4 — Powers of search

94. Powers of search in relation to vessels, aircraft and vehicles
95. Examination of packages, etc.
96. Power to remove packages and goods to police station or

         examination station
97. Search of persons and baggage
98. Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises

          Division 5 — Miscellaneous provisions

 99. Obstruction
100. Protection from personal liability

          PART 11

          MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

101.      Registration to be prima facie evidence
102.      Certificate of validity of contested registration
103.      Certificate of Registrar
104.      Costs of proceedings before Court
105.      Burden of proving use of trade mark
105A.     Composition of offences
106.      Jurisdiction of Courts
107.      Offence committed by partnership or body corporate
108.      Power to make rules
109.      Transitional provisions
          First Schedule — Collective Marks
          Second Schedule — Certification Marks
          Third Schedule — Transitional Provisions

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
7  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

An Act to establish a new law for trade marks, to enable Singapore to
  give effect to certain international conventions on intellectual
  property and for matters connected therewith.

   [15 January 1999: Except section 54 ;
            31 October 2000: Section 54 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Trade Marks Act 1998.

General interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “business” includes a trade or profession;
      “business identifier” means any sign capable of being
         represented graphically which is used to identify any
         business;
      “certification mark” has the meaning given by section 61;
      “collective mark” has the meaning given by section 60;
      “Convention country” means —
              (a) in section 10 and paragraph 13 of the Third Schedule,
                   a country or territory, other than Singapore, which
                   is —
                     (i) a party to the Paris Convention; or
                     (ii) a member of the World Trade Organisation; and
              (b) in any other provision of this Act, a country or
                   territory which is —
                     (i) a party to the Paris Convention; or
                     (ii) a member of the World Trade Organisation;
      “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     8

“dilution”, in relation to a trade mark, means the lessening of the
   capacity of the trade mark to identify and distinguish goods
   or services, regardless of whether there is —

          (a) any competition between the proprietor of the trade
               mark and any other party; or

          (b) any likelihood of confusion on the part of the public;

“earlier trade mark” means —

          (a) a registered trade mark or an international trade mark
               (Singapore), the application for registration of which
               was made earlier than the trade mark in question,
               taking account (where appropriate) of the priorities
               claimed in respect of the trade marks; or

          (b) a trade mark which, at the date of application for
               registration of the trade mark in question or (where
               appropriate) of the priority claimed in respect of the
               application, was a well known trade mark,

          and includes a trade mark in respect of which an application
          for registration has been made and which, if registered, would
          be an earlier trade mark by virtue of paragraph (a) subject to
          its being so registered;

“geographical indication” has the meaning given by section 2 of
   the Geographical Indications Act 2014;

“International Bureau” has the meaning given by Article 2(1) of
   the Madrid Protocol;

“international trade mark (Singapore)” means a trade mark
   which is entitled to protection in Singapore under the Madrid
   Protocol, or a trade mark prescribed by the Minister (by rules
   made under section 54) as an international trade mark
   (Singapore);

“Madrid Protocol” means the Protocol relating to the Madrid
   Agreement concerning the International Registration of
   Marks, adopted at Madrid on 27 June 1989, as revised or
   amended from time to time;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
9  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

   “Office” means the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore
      incorporated under the Intellectual Property Office of
      Singapore Act 2001;

   “Paris Convention” means the Convention for the Protection of
      Industrial Property signed at Paris on 20 March 1883, as
      revised or amended from time to time;

   “proprietor” means —

   (a) in relation to a registered trade mark — the person in
        whose name the trade mark is registered; or

   (b) in relation to an unregistered trade mark that is a well
        known trade mark — the person to whom the trade
        mark belongs;

   “register” means the register of trade marks maintained by the
      Registrar under section 66;

   “Registrar” means the Registrar of Trade Marks mentioned in
      section 62 and includes any Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks
      mentioned in that section;

   “Registry” means the Registry of Trade Marks established under
      section 64;

   “repealed Act” means the Trade Marks Act (Cap. 332,
      1992 Revised Edition) repealed by the Trade Marks
      Act 1998 (Act 46 of 1998, revised as Cap. 332,
      1999 Revised Edition);

   “sign” includes any letter, word, name, signature, numeral,
      device, brand, heading, label, ticket, shape, colour, aspect of
      packaging or any combination thereof;

   “trade” includes any business or profession;

   “trade mark” means any sign capable of being represented
      graphically and which is capable of distinguishing goods or
      services dealt with or provided in the course of trade by a
      person from goods or services so dealt with or provided by
      any other person;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     10

“TRIPS Agreement” means the Agreement on Trade‑Related
   Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, set out in Annex 1C
   to the WTO Agreement, as revised or amended from time to
   time;

“well known trade mark” means —

          (a) any registered trade mark that is well known in
               Singapore; or

          (b) any unregistered trade mark that is well known in
               Singapore and that belongs to a person who —

          (i) is a national of a Convention country; or

          (ii) is domiciled in, or has a real and effective
               industrial or commercial establishment in, a
               Convention country,

          (b) whether or not that person carries on business, or has
               any goodwill, in Singapore;

“WTO Agreement” means the World Trade Organisation
   Agreement signed in Marrakesh in 1994 as revised or
   amended from time to time.

                                                                        [42/2005; 16/2012; 19/2014; 40/2019]

 (2) References in this Act to a trade mark include any trade mark
which relates to a service that is ancillary to goods or services dealt
with or provided in the course of trade by a person, whether or not the
service is provided for money or money’s worth.

 (3) References in this Act to a trade mark include, unless the
context otherwise requires, a collective mark or certification mark.

 (4) References in this Act to use (or any particular description of
use) of a trade mark, or of a sign identical with, similar to, or likely to
be mistaken for a trade mark, include use (or that description of use)
otherwise than by means of a graphic representation.

 (5) References in this Act to registration (in particular, in the
expression “registered trade mark”) are, unless the context otherwise
requires, to registration in the register.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
11  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (6) In this Act, a sign is taken to be applied to goods, material or any
other thing if it is woven in, impressed on, worked into, or affixed or
annexed to, the goods, material or thing.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), in deciding, for the purposes of this
Act, whether a trade mark is well known in Singapore, it is relevant to
take into account any matter from which it may be inferred that the
trade mark is well known, including such of the following matters as
may be relevant:

    (a) the degree to which the trade mark is known to or
         recognised by any relevant sector of the public in
         Singapore;

    (b) the duration, extent and geographical area of —

    (i) any use of the trade mark; or

    (ii) any promotion of the trade mark, including any
         advertising of, any publicity given to, or any
         presentation at any fair or exhibition of, the goods
         or services to which the trade mark is applied;

    (c) any registration or application for the registration of the
        trade mark in any country or territory in which the trade
        mark is used or recognised, and the duration of such
        registration or application;

    (d) any successful enforcement of any right in the trade mark
         in any country or territory, and the extent to which the trade
         mark was recognised as well known by the competent
         authorities of that country or territory;

    (e) any value associated with the trade mark.

 (8) Where it is determined that a trade mark is well known to any
relevant sector of the public in Singapore, the trade mark is deemed to
be well known in Singapore.

 (9) In subsections (7) and (8), “relevant sector of the public in
Singapore” includes any of the following:

    (a) all actual consumers and potential consumers in Singapore
         of the goods or services to which the trade mark is applied;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     12

(b) all persons in Singapore involved in the distribution of the
     goods or services to which the trade mark is applied;

          (c) all businesses and bodies corporate in Singapore dealing in
              the goods or services to which the trade mark is applied.

                                                                                [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Meaning of infringing goods, material or articles and
counterfeit goods or trade mark

 3.—(1) For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) “infringing goods”, “infringing material” and “infringing
            articles” are to be construed in accordance with
            subsections (2), (3) and (4), respectively; and

       (b) “counterfeit goods” and “counterfeit trade mark” are to be
            construed in accordance with subsections (5) and (6),
            respectively.

 (2) Goods are “infringing goods”, in relation to a registered trade
mark, if they or their packaging bears a sign identical with or similar
to that mark and —

       (a) the application of the sign to the goods or their packaging
            was an infringement of the registered trade mark;

       (b) the goods are proposed to be imported into Singapore and
            the application of the sign in Singapore to them or their
            packaging would be an infringement of the registered trade
            mark; or

       (c) the sign has otherwise been used in relation to the goods in
            such a way as to infringe the registered trade mark.

 (3) Material is “infringing material”, in relation to a registered trade
mark, if it bears a sign identical with or similar to that mark and
either —

       (a) it is used for labelling or packaging goods, as a business
            paper, or for advertising goods or services, in such a way as
            to infringe the registered trade mark; or

       (b) it is intended to be so used and such use would infringe the
            registered trade mark.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
13  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (4) “Infringing articles”, in relation to a registered trade mark,
means articles —

    (a) which are used for making copies of a sign identical with or
         similar to that mark; and

    (b) which a person has in the person’s possession, custody or
         control, knowing or having reason to believe that they have
         been or are to be used to produce infringing goods or
         material.

 (5) Goods are “counterfeit goods”, in relation to a registered trade
mark, if —

    (a) they are infringing goods in relation to that mark; and

    (b) the sign borne by them or their packaging is a counterfeit
         trade mark.

 (6) A sign is a “counterfeit trade mark”, in relation to a registered
trade mark, if the sign —

    (a) is identical with or so nearly resembling the registered
         trade mark as to be calculated to deceive; and

    (b) is applied to goods or services —

    (i) without the express or implied consent (conditional
        or otherwise) of the proprietor of the registered trade
        mark; and

    (ii) to falsely represent the goods or services to be the
         genuine goods or actual services of the proprietor or
         a licensee of the registered trade mark.

                                    PART 2
                 REGISTRATION OF TRADE MARKS

                                  Introductory
Registered trade marks

 4.—(1) A registered trade mark is a property right obtained by the
registration of the trade mark under this Act and the proprietor of a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     14

registered trade mark has the rights and remedies provided by
this Act.

 (2) No proceedings shall lie to prevent or recover damages for the
infringement of an unregistered trade mark as such; but nothing in
this Act affects the law relating to passing off or rights under the
Geographical Indications Act 2014.

                                                                                                           [19/2014]

               Application for registration of trade mark

Application for registration

 5.—(1) An application for registration of a trade mark must be
made in the prescribed manner to the Registrar.

 (2) The application must —

       (a) contain a request for the registration of a trade mark;

       (b) state the name and address of the applicant;

       (c) contain a clear representation of the trade mark;

       (d) list the goods or services in relation to which the applicant
            seeks to register the trade mark; and

       (e) state —

               (i) that the trade mark is being used in the course of
                   trade, by the applicant or with the applicant’s
                   consent, in relation to those goods or services; or

              (ii) that the applicant has a bona fide intention that the
                   trade mark should be so used.

 (3) The application is subject to the payment of the application fee
and such other fees as may be appropriate.

 (4) The date of the application for registration of the trade mark is
the earliest date on which —

       (a) all the requirements under subsection (2) have been
            satisfied; and

       (b) all the fees payable under subsection (3) —

               (i) have been paid; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
15  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (ii) are treated by the Registrar as paid.

Division of application for registration

 5A.—(1) Subject to this section and any rules made under
subsection (3), an application for registration of a trade mark may,
at the request of the applicant, be divided into 2 or more separate
applications for registration of the trade mark.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (2) A request under subsection (1) —

       (a) must be made to the Registrar —

               (i) in the prescribed manner; and

              (ii) before the trade mark is registered; and

       (b) is subject to the payment of such fee as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (3) The Minister may make rules for the purposes of this section
and may, in those rules, provide for —

       (a) the circumstances in which an application for registration
            of a trade mark may be divided;

       (b) the conditions to be satisfied before a request under
            subsection (1) may be granted by the Registrar; and

       (c) the effect of dividing an application for registration of a
            trade mark into 2 or more separate applications for
            registration of the trade mark.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

Classification of goods and services

 6.—(1) Goods and services must be classified, for the purposes of
the registration of trade marks, according to a prescribed system of
classification.

 (2) Any question arising as to the class within which any goods or
services fall is to be determined by the Registrar, whose decision is
final.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                       16

          Grounds for refusal of registration

Absolute grounds for refusal of registration

7.—(1) The following must not be registered:

(a) signs which do not satisfy the definition of a trade mark in
     section 2(1);

(b) trade marks which are devoid of any distinctive character;

          (c) trade marks which consist exclusively of signs or
              indications which may serve, in trade, to designate the
              kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value,
              geographical origin, the time of production of goods or
              of rendering of services, or other characteristics of goods
              or services; and

(d) trade marks which consist exclusively of signs or
     indications which have become customary in the current
     language or in the bona fide and established practices of
     the trade.

 (2) A trade mark must not be refused registration by virtue of
subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d) if, before the date of application for
registration, it has in fact acquired a distinctive character as a result of
the use made of it.

 (3) A sign must not be registered as a trade mark if it consists
exclusively of —

(a) the shape which results from the nature of the goods
     themselves;

(b) the shape of goods which is necessary to obtain a technical
     result; or

          (c) the shape which gives substantial value to the goods.

(4) A trade mark must not be registered if it is —

(a) contrary to public policy or to morality; or

(b) of such a nature as to deceive the public (for instance as to
     the nature, quality or geographical origin of the goods or
     service).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
17                         Trade Marks Act 1998              2020 Ed.

 (5) A trade mark must not be registered if or to the extent that its use
is prohibited in Singapore by any written law or rule of law.

 (6) A trade mark must not be registered if or to the extent that the
application is made in bad faith.

 (7) Despite subsection (2), a trade mark must not be registered if it
contains or consists of a geographical indication in respect of a wine
or spirit and the trade mark is used or intended to be used in relation to
a wine or spirit not originating from the place indicated in the
geographical indication.

 (8) Subsection (7) applies whether or not the trade mark has, or is
accompanied by, an indication of the true geographical origin of the
wine or spirit (as the case may be) or an expression such as “kind”,
“type”, “style”, “imitation” or the like, and irrespective of the
language the geographical indication is expressed in that trade mark.

 (9) A trade mark must not be refused registration by virtue of
subsection (7) if the application for its registration had been made in
good faith, or if it had been used continuously in good faith in the
course of trade by the applicant for its registration or the applicant’s
predecessor in title, either —

    (a) before 15 January 1999; or

    (b) before the geographical indication in question is protected
         in its country of origin.

 (10) A trade mark must not be refused registration by virtue of
subsection (7) if the geographical indication in question —

    (a) has ceased to be protected; or

    (b) has fallen into disuse,

in its country of origin.

 (11) Despite subsection (2), a trade mark must not be registered
if —

    (a) it contains or consists of a geographical indication which is
         registered, or in respect of which an application for
         registration has been made, under the Geographical

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     18

          Indications Act 2014 before the date of the application for
          registration of the trade mark; and

(b) the goods for which the trade mark is sought to be
     registered —

          (i) are identical or similar to the goods for which the
              geographical indication is registered or for which
              registration of the geographical indication is sought;
              and

              (ii) do not originate in the place indicated by the
                   geographical indication.

                                                                                                           [19/2014]

 (12) Subsection (11) applies whether or not the trade mark has, or is
accompanied by, an indication of the true geographical origin of the
goods, or an expression such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitation” or
the like, and irrespective of the language the geographical indication
is expressed in that trade mark.

                                                                                                           [19/2014]

 (13) A trade mark must not be refused registration by virtue of
subsection (11) if the application for its registration had been made in
good faith, or if it had been used continuously in good faith in the
course of trade by the applicant for its registration or the applicant’s
predecessor in title, either —

(a) before the date of the application for registration of the
     geographical indication in question in Singapore; or

       (b) before the geographical indication in question became
            protected in its country of origin.

                                                                                                           [19/2014]

 (14) A trade mark must not be registered in the cases specified in
sections 56 and 57.

 (15) The Minister may make rules to provide that a sign specified in
the rules must not be registered as a trade mark, or must not be so
registered unless such conditions as may be prescribed are met.

 (16) A trade mark must not be registered if or to the extent that the
registration contravenes any rule made under subsection (15).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
19  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

Relative grounds for refusal of registration

 8.—(1) A trade mark must not be registered if it is identical with an
earlier trade mark and the goods or services for which the trade mark
is sought to be registered are identical with the goods or services for
which the earlier trade mark is protected.

(2) A trade mark must not be registered if, because —

    (a) it is identical with an earlier trade mark and is to be
         registered for goods or services similar to those for which
         the earlier trade mark is protected; or

    (b) it is similar to an earlier trade mark and is to be registered
         for goods or services identical with or similar to those for
         which the earlier trade mark is protected,

there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public.

 (3) Where an application for registration of a trade mark is made
before 1 July 2004, if the trade mark —

    (a) is identical with or similar to an earlier trade mark; and

    (b) is to be registered for goods or services which are not
         similar to those for which the earlier trade mark is
         protected,

the later trade mark must not be registered if —

    (c) the earlier trade mark is well known in Singapore;

    (d) use of the later trade mark in relation to the goods or
         services for which the later trade mark is sought to be
         registered would indicate a connection between those
         goods or services and the proprietor of the earlier trade
         mark;

    (e) there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the
        public because of such use; and

    (f) the interests of the proprietor of the earlier trade mark are
        likely to be damaged by such use.

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), where an application for registration
of a trade mark is made on or after 1 July 2004, if the whole or an

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     20

essential part of the trade mark is identical with or similar to an earlier
trade mark, the later trade mark must not be registered if —

(a) the earlier trade mark is well known in Singapore; and

(b) use of the later trade mark in relation to the goods or
     services for which the later trade mark is sought to be
     registered —

          (i) would indicate a connection between those goods or
              services and the proprietor of the earlier trade mark,
              and is likely to damage the interests of the proprietor
              of the earlier trade mark; or

          (ii) if the earlier trade mark is well known to the public at
               large in Singapore —

          (A) would cause dilution in an unfair manner of the
               distinctive character of the earlier trade mark;
               or

          (B) would take unfair advantage of the distinctive
               character of the earlier trade mark.

 (5) A trade mark must not be refused registration by virtue of
subsection (4) if the application for the registration of the trade mark
was filed before the earlier trade mark became well known in
Singapore, unless it is shown that the application was made in bad
faith.

 (6) In deciding whether any such application was made in bad faith,
it is relevant to consider whether the applicant had, at the time the
application was made, knowledge of, or reason to know of, the earlier
trade mark.

 (7) A trade mark must not be registered if, or to the extent that, its
use in Singapore is liable to be prevented —

(a) by virtue of any rule of law (in particular, the law of
     passing off) protecting an unregistered trade mark or other
     sign used in the course of trade; or

(b) by virtue of an earlier right other than those referred to in
     subsections (1), (2) and (3) or paragraph (a), in particular

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
21  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    by virtue of the law of copyright or any law with regard to
    the protection of designs.

 (8) A person entitled under subsection (7) to prevent the use of a
trade mark is referred to in this Act as the proprietor of an earlier right
in relation to the trade mark.

 (9) The Registrar may, in his or her discretion, register a trade mark
where the proprietor of the earlier trade mark or other earlier right
consents to the registration.

 (10) The Registrar may, in his or her discretion, register any trade
mark mentioned in subsection (3), (4) or (7) where the proprietor of
the earlier trade mark or other earlier right fails to give notice to the
Registrar of opposition to the registration in accordance with
section 13.

 (11) An earlier trade mark that is a registered trade mark whose
registration has expired must continue to be taken into account in
determining the registrability of the trade mark in question until the
date mentioned in subsection (12), unless the Registrar is satisfied
that there was no bona fide use of the firstmentioned trade mark
during the 2 years immediately preceding that date.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (12) The date mentioned in subsection (11) is the last date specified
in this Act or rules made under this Act on which the registration of
the earlier trade mark may be restored or renewed.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (13) An earlier trade mark that is an international trade mark
(Singapore), whose registration in the register of trade marks
maintained by the International Bureau for the purposes of the
Madrid Protocol is not renewed, must continue to be taken into
account in determining the registrability of the trade mark in question
until the date mentioned in subsection (14), unless the Registrar is
satisfied that there was no bona fide use of the firstmentioned trade
mark during the 2 years immediately preceding that date.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     22

 (14) The date mentioned in subsection (13) is the date the Registrar
receives the prescribed notice of non-renewal from the International
Bureau.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Raising of relative grounds in case of honest concurrent use

 9.—(1) Where, on an application for the registration of a trade
mark, it appears to the Registrar —

       (a) that there is an earlier trade mark in relation to which the
            conditions set out in section 8(1), (2) or (3) apply; or

       (b) that there is an earlier right in relation to which the
            condition set out in section 8(7) is satisfied,

but the applicant shows to the satisfaction of the Registrar that there
has been honest concurrent use in the course of trade in Singapore of
the trade mark for which registration is sought, the Registrar must not
refuse the application by reason of the earlier trade mark or other
earlier right unless objection on that ground is raised in opposition
proceedings by the proprietor of that earlier trade mark or other
earlier right.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects —

       (a) the refusal of registration on the grounds mentioned in
            section 7; or

       (b) the making of an application for a declaration of invalidity
            under section 23(3).

                                    Priority

Claim to priority of Convention application

 10.—(1) Subject to subsection (6), where —

       (a) a person has filed an application for the registration of a
            trade mark in a Convention country in respect of certain
            goods or services;

       (b) that application is the first application for the registration
            of the trade mark to be filed in any Convention country in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
23  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

         respect of those goods or services (called in this section the
         first Convention application);

                                                                          [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    (c) within 6 months after the date on which the first
         Convention application is filed, that person or that
         person’s successor in title applies under this Act for the
         registration of the trade mark in respect of all or any of
         those goods or services; and

                                                                          [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    (d) that person or that person’s successor in title provides to
         the Registrar in the manner specified by the Registrar any
         prescribed information within a prescribed time, and
         provides to the Registrar any supporting document
         requested by the Registrar, within the time specified by
         the Registrar,

that person or that person’s successor in title may, when filing the
application under this Act, claim a right of priority for the registration
of the trade mark in respect of all or any of the goods or services for
which registration was sought in the first Convention application.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) Where any person claims the right of priority mentioned in
subsection (1), the person has priority from (and including) the date
on which the first Convention application was filed.

 (3) Where the right of priority mentioned in subsection (1) is
claimed in respect of a trade mark, the registrability of the trade mark
is not affected by any use of the trade mark in Singapore in the period
between —

    (a) the date the first Convention application was filed; and

    (b) the date the application under this Act was filed.

 (4) Any filing which in a Convention country is equivalent to a
regular national filing, under its domestic legislation or an
international agreement, is to be treated as giving rise to the right
of priority.

 (5) In subsection (4), “regular national filing” means a filing which
is adequate to establish the date on which the application was filed in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     24

the Convention country, whatever may be the subsequent fate of the
application.

 (6) Where a subsequent application concerning the same subject as
an earlier application is filed, whether in the same or a different
Convention country, and these are the first 2 applications concerning
that subject to be filed in any Convention country, the subsequent
application is to be considered the first Convention application if, at
the date the subsequent application is filed —

(a) the earlier application has been withdrawn, abandoned or
     refused, without having been laid open to public inspection
     and without leaving any rights outstanding; and

(b) the earlier application has not yet served as a basis for
     claiming a right of priority.

(7) To avoid doubt, where subsection (6) applies —

(a) the date on which the subsequent application was filed,
     rather than that of the earlier application, is to be
     considered the starting date of the period of priority
     under subsection (2); and

(b) the earlier application may not thereafter serve as a basis
     for claiming a right of priority.

 (8) The Minister may make rules as to the manner of claiming
priority under this section.

 (9) A right of priority arising under this section may be assigned or
otherwise transmitted, either with the application or independently,
and the reference in subsection (1) to the applicant’s “successor in
title” is to be construed accordingly.

Claim to priority from other relevant overseas application

 11.—(1) The Minister may, by order, confer on a person who has
filed an application for the registration of a trade mark in a country or
territory to which the Government has entered into a treaty,
convention, arrangement or engagement for the reciprocal
protection of trade marks, a right to priority, for the purpose of
registering the same trade mark under this Act for some or all of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
25  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

same goods or services, for a specified period from the date of filing
of that application.

 (2) An order under this section may make provision corresponding
to that set out in section 10 or such other provision as appears to the
Minister to be appropriate.

                           Registration procedure

Examination of application

 12.—(1) The Registrar must examine whether an application for
registration of a trade mark satisfies the requirements of this Act
(including any requirements imposed by rules made under this Act).

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Registrar may carry out a
search, to such extent as the Registrar considers necessary, of earlier
trade marks.

 (3) If it appears to the Registrar that the requirements for
registration are not met or that additional information or evidence
is required to meet those requirements, the Registrar must inform the
applicant and give the applicant an opportunity, within such period as
may be prescribed, to make representations, to amend the application
or to provide the additional or any other information or evidence.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

 (4) If the applicant responds within the period mentioned in this
subsection or subsection (3) but fails to satisfy the Registrar that those
requirements are met, or to amend the application or provide the
additional information or evidence so as to meet them, the Registrar
may —

       (a) refuse to accept the application;

       (b) accept the application but only in relation to the goods or
            services for which —

               (i) registration is sought; and

              (ii) the requirements for registration have been met; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     26

       (c) give the applicant another opportunity within a prescribed
            period to make representations, to amend the application or
            to provide the additional information or evidence.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (5) If the applicant fails to respond within the period mentioned in
subsection (3) or (4)(c), the application, or the application insofar as it
relates to those goods or services for which registration is sought but
the requirements for registration have not been met, is treated as
withdrawn, but the Registrar must accept the application in relation to
those goods and services for which registration is sought and the
requirements for registration have been met.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (6) If it appears to the Registrar that the requirements for
registration in relation to all of the goods or services for which
registration is sought are met, the Registrar must accept the
application.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Publication and opposition proceedings

 13.—(1) When an application for registration has been accepted,
the Registrar must cause the application to be published in the
prescribed manner.

 (2) Any person may, within the prescribed time from the date of the
publication of the application, give notice to the Registrar of the
person’s opposition to the registration.

 (3) The notice must be given in writing in the prescribed manner,
and must include a statement of the grounds of opposition and such
other matter as may be prescribed.

 (4) The Minister may make rules to provide for opposition
proceedings and for matters relating thereto.

 (5) In this section and sections 15, 16 and 17, a reference to an
application for the registration of a trade mark that has been accepted
includes an application that is accepted under section 12(4) or (5) in
relation to only some of the goods or services for which the
registration is sought.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
27  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

Withdrawal, restriction or amendment of application

 14.—(1) The applicant may at any time withdraw the applicant’s
application or restrict the goods or services covered by the
application.

 (2) If the application has been published, the withdrawal or
restriction must also be published.

 (3) In other respects, an application may be amended, at the request
of the applicant, only by amending —

    (a) the name or other particular of the applicant;

                                                                          [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    (b) errors of wording or of copying; or

    (c) obvious mistakes,

and then only where the amendment does not substantially affect the
identity of the trade mark or extend the goods or services covered by
the application.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (4) Subsection (3) is subject to the rules mentioned in
section 108(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Registration

 15.—(1) Where an application has been accepted and —

       (a) no notice of opposition is given within the period referred
            to in section 13(2); or

       (b) all opposition proceedings are withdrawn or decided in
            favour of the applicant,

the Registrar must register the trade mark in relation to the goods or
services for which the application has been accepted.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) A trade mark when registered is registered as of the date of the
application for registration, and that date is deemed for the purposes
of this Act to be the date of registration.

 (3) On the registration of a trade mark, the Registrar must issue to
the applicant a certificate of registration.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     28

Revocation of acceptance

 16.—(1) Despite section 15(1), if, before a trade mark is registered,
the Registrar is satisfied —

(a) that the application for registration of the trade mark was
     accepted because of an error or omission in the course of
     the examination; or

(b) that, in the special circumstances of the case, the trade
     mark should not be registered,

the Registrar may revoke the acceptance of the application.

(2) If the Registrar revokes the acceptance —

(a) the application is taken to have never been accepted; and

(b) section 12 again applies in relation to the application.

                            Series of trade marks

Registration of series of trade marks

 17.—(1) A person may make a single application under section 5
for the registration of a series of trade marks.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, “series of trade marks” means a
number of trade marks which resemble each other as to their material
particulars and which differ only as to matters of a non‑distinctive
character not substantially affecting the identity of the trade mark.

 (3) If the Registrar is satisfied that the trade marks in question are a
series of trade marks and accepts the application, and the Registrar is
required under section 15 to register the trade marks, the Registrar
must register them as a series in one registration.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

     Duration, renewal and alteration of registered trade mark

Duration of registration

 18.—(1) A trade mark is registered for a period of 10 years from the
date of registration.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
29  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) Registration may be renewed in accordance with section 19 for
further periods of 10 years.

Renewal of registration

 19.—(1) The registration of a trade mark may be renewed at the
request of the proprietor, subject to payment of the fee mentioned in
subsection (4) or the fees mentioned in subsection (5), as the case may
be.

 (2) The Minister may make rules for the Registrar to inform the
proprietor of a registered trade mark, before the expiry of the
registration, of the date of expiry and the manner in which the
registration may be renewed.

 (3) A request for renewal must be made not earlier than the
prescribed period before the date of expiry of the registration, and not
later than another prescribed period after that date.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (4) Where the request for renewal is made on or before the date of
expiry of the registration, the fee payable is the prescribed renewal
fee.

 (5) Where the request for renewal is made within the second-
mentioned prescribed period in subsection (3) after the date of expiry
of the registration, the fees payable are the prescribed renewal fee and
the prescribed late renewal fee.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (6) Renewal takes effect from the expiry of the previous
registration.

 (7) If the registration is not renewed in accordance with this section
and the rules mentioned in subsection (2), the Registrar must remove
the trade mark from the register.

 (8) The Minister may make rules to provide for the restoration of
the registration of a trade mark which has been removed from the
register, subject to such conditions (if any) as may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     30

Alteration of registered trade mark

 20.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a registered trade mark must not
be altered in the register, either during the period of registration or on
renewal.

 (2) The Registrar may, at the request of the proprietor, allow the
alteration of a registered trade mark where the mark includes the
proprietor’s name or address and the alteration is limited to alteration
of that name or address and does not substantially affect the identity
of the mark.

 (3) The Minister may make rules for the publication of any such
alteration and the making of objections by any person claiming to be
affected by it.

                 Cancellation, revocation and invalidity

Cancellation of registered trade mark

 21.—(1) A registered trade mark may be cancelled by the
proprietor in respect of some or all of the goods or services for
which it is registered.

 (2) The Minister may make rules —

       (a) to provide for the manner and effect of a cancellation; and

       (b) for protecting the interests of other persons having a right
            in the registered trade mark.

Revocation of registration

 22.—(1) The registration of a trade mark may be revoked on any of
the following grounds:

       (a) that, within the period of 5 years following the date of
            completion of the registration procedure, it has not been
            put to genuine use in the course of trade in Singapore, by
            the proprietor or with the proprietor’s consent, in relation
            to the goods or services for which it is registered, and there
            are no proper reasons for non‑use;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
31  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) that such use has been suspended for an uninterrupted
         period of 5 years, and there are no proper reasons for
         non‑use;

    (c) that, in consequence of acts or inactivity of the proprietor,
        it has become the common name in the trade for the
        product or service for which it is registered;

    (d) that, in consequence of the use made of it by the proprietor
         or with the proprietor’s consent in relation to the goods or
         services for which it is registered, it is liable to mislead the
         public, particularly as to the nature, quality or geographical
         origin of those goods or services.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), use of a trade mark includes
use in a form differing in elements which do not alter the distinctive
character of the mark in the form in which it was registered, and use in
Singapore includes applying the trade mark to goods or to materials
for the labelling or packaging of goods in Singapore solely for export
purposes.

 (3) The registration of a trade mark must not be revoked on the
ground mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (1) if such use
as is referred to in that paragraph is commenced or resumed after the
expiry of the 5 year period and before the application for revocation is
made.

 (4) Any commencement or resumption of use referred to in
subsection (3) after the expiry of the 5 year period but within the
period of 3 months before the making of the application for
revocation must be disregarded unless preparations for the
commencement or resumption began before the proprietor became
aware that the application might be made.

 (5) An application for revocation may be made by any person, and
may be made either to the Registrar or to the Court, except that —

    (a) if proceedings concerning the trade mark in question are
         pending in the Court — the application must be made to the
         Court; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     32

(b) if in any other case the application is made to the
     Registrar — the Registrar may at any stage of the
     proceedings refer the application to the Court.

 (6) Where grounds for revocation exist in respect of only some of
the goods or services for which the trade mark is registered,
revocation must relate to those goods or services only.

 (7) Where the registration of a trade mark is revoked to any extent,
the rights of the proprietor are deemed to have ceased to that extent as
from —

(a) the date of the application for revocation; or

(b) if the Registrar or the Court is satisfied that the grounds for
     revocation existed at an earlier date, that date.

Grounds for invalidity of registration

 23.—(1) The registration of a trade mark may be declared invalid
on the ground that the trade mark was registered in breach of
section 7.

 (2) Where the registered trade mark was registered in breach of
section 7 in that it is a trade mark mentioned in subsection (1)(b), (c)
or (d) of that section, it must not be declared invalid if, in
consequence of the use which has been made of it, it has after
registration acquired a distinctive character in relation to the goods or
services for which it is registered.

 (3) The registration of a trade mark may be declared invalid on the
ground —

       (a) that there is an earlier trade mark in relation to which —

               (i) the conditions set out in section 8(1) or (2) apply;

              (ii) where the trade mark has been registered pursuant to
                   an application for registration of the trade mark made
                   before 1 July 2004 — the conditions set out in
                   section 8(3) apply; or

             (iii) where the trade mark has been registered pursuant to
                   an application for registration of the trade mark made

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
33  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    on or after 1 July 2004 — the conditions set out in
    section 8(4) apply; or

    (b) that there is an earlier right in relation to which the
         condition set out in section 8(7) is satisfied,

unless the proprietor of that earlier trade mark or other earlier right
has consented to the registration.

 (4) The registration of a trade mark may be declared invalid on the
ground of fraud in the registration or that the registration was
obtained by misrepresentation.

 (5) An application for a declaration of invalidity may be made by
any person, and may be made either to the Registrar or to the Court,
except that —

    (a) if proceedings concerning the trade mark in question are
         pending in the Court — the application must be made to the
         Court; and

    (b) if in any other case the application is made to the
         Registrar — the Registrar may at any stage of the
         proceedings refer the application to the Court.

 (6) An application for a declaration of invalidity of the registration
of a trade mark on the ground that it was in breach of section 7(7)
must not be made after the expiry of 5 years from —

    (a) the date of completion of the registration procedure; or

    (b) the date on which use of the trade mark by the person who
         applied for its registration or the person’s predecessor in
         title has become generally known in Singapore,

whichever is the earlier, unless the applicant shows that the
registration of the trade mark was applied for in bad faith.

 (7) An application for a declaration of invalidity of the registration
of a trade mark on the ground that there is an earlier trade mark in
relation to which the conditions set out in section 8(3) or (4) apply —

    (a) must not be made after the expiry of 5 years from 1 July
         2004 or the date of completion of the registration

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     34

          procedure, whichever is the later, unless the applicant for
          the declaration shows that —

          (i) the registration of the later trade mark was applied
              for in bad faith; or

          (ii) the later trade mark was never used; and

(b) must not be granted if the registration of the later trade
     mark was applied for before the earlier trade mark became
     well known in Singapore, unless the applicant for the
     declaration shows that the registration of the later trade
     mark was applied for in bad faith.

 (8) In deciding whether the registration of the later trade mark was
applied for in bad faith, it is relevant to consider whether the applicant
for the registration of the later trade mark had, at the time the
applicant’s application was made, knowledge of, or reason to know
of, the earlier trade mark.

 (9) Where the ground of invalidity exists in respect of only some of
the goods or services for which the trade mark is registered, the trade
mark must be declared invalid as regards those goods or services
only.

 (10) Where the registration of a trade mark is declared invalid to
any extent, the registration is to that extent deemed never to have been
made, but this does not affect transactions past and closed.

Effect of acquiescence

 24.—(1) Where the proprietor of an earlier trade mark or other
earlier right has acquiesced for a continuous period of 5 years in the
use in the course of trade of a registered trade mark in Singapore,
being aware of that use, there ceases to be any entitlement on the basis
of that earlier trade mark or other right —

       (a) to apply for a declaration that the registration of the later
            trade mark is invalid; or

       (b) to oppose the use of the later trade mark in relation to the
            goods or services in relation to which it has been so used,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
35  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

unless the registration of the later trade mark was applied for in bad
faith.

 (2) Where subsection (1) applies, the proprietor of the later trade
mark is not entitled to oppose the use of the earlier trade mark or (as
the case may be) the exploitation of the earlier right, even though the
earlier trade mark or right may no longer be invoked against the
proprietor’s later trade mark.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), in deciding whether the
registration of the later trade mark was applied for in bad faith, it is
relevant to consider whether the applicant for the registration of the
later trade mark had, at the time the applicant’s application was made,
knowledge of, or reason to know of, the earlier trade mark or other
right.

                                Miscellaneous

Amendment of other documents

 25.—(1) The Registrar may, at the written request of the person
who has made an application (other than an application for the
registration of a trade mark), or filed a notice or other document for
the purposes of this Act, or at the written request of the person’s
agent, amend the application, notice or document —

       (a) to correct a clerical error or an obvious mistake; or

       (b) if the Registrar is of the opinion that it is fair and
            reasonable in all the circumstances of the case to do so.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (2) Subsection (1) is subject to the rules mentioned in
section 108(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     36

          PART 3

          RIGHTS AND REMEDIES OF PROPRIETOR OF
                     REGISTERED TRADE MARK

          Rights of proprietor of registered trade mark

Rights conferred by registered trade mark

 26.—(1) The proprietor of a registered trade mark has the exclusive
rights —

(a) to use the trade mark; and

(b) to authorise other persons to use the trade mark,

in relation to the goods or services for which the trade mark is
registered.

 (2) The proprietor has the right to obtain relief under this Act for
infringement of the proprietor’s trade mark.

 (3) The acts amounting to infringement of a registered trade mark
are set out in section 27, and references in this Act to the infringement
of a registered trade mark are to be construed accordingly.

 (4) The rights accrue to the proprietor as from the date of
registration of the trade mark, except that —

(a) no infringement proceedings may be begun before the date
     on which the trade mark is in fact registered; and

(b) no offence under section 46, 47, 48 or 49 is committed by
     anything done before the date on which the trade mark is in
     fact registered.

 (5) If the trade mark is registered subject to any disclaimer or
limitation, the rights of the proprietor are restricted by the disclaimer
or limitation.

Acts amounting to infringement of registered trade mark

 27.—(1) A person infringes a registered trade mark if, without the
consent of the proprietor of the trade mark, the person uses in the
course of trade a sign which is identical with the trade mark in relation
to goods or services which are identical with those for which it is
registered.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
37  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) A person infringes a registered trade mark if, without the
consent of the proprietor of the trade mark, the person uses in the
course of trade a sign where because —

    (a) the sign is identical with the trade mark and is used in
         relation to goods or services similar to those for which the
         trade mark is registered; or

    (b) the sign is similar to the trade mark and is used in relation
         to goods or services identical with or similar to those for
         which the trade mark is registered,

there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the public.

 (3) A person infringes a registered trade mark which is well known
in Singapore if —

    (a) without the consent of the proprietor of the trade mark, the
         person uses in the course of trade a sign which is identical
         with or similar to the trade mark in relation to goods or
         services which are not similar to those for which the trade
         mark is registered;

    (b) the use of the trade mark in relation to those goods or
         services would indicate a connection between those goods
         or services and the proprietor;

    (c) there exists a likelihood of confusion on the part of the
        public because of such use; and

    (d) the interests of the proprietor are likely to be damaged by
         such use.

 (4) For the purposes of this section and sections 28, 29 and 31, a
person uses a sign if, in particular, the person —

    (a) applies it to goods or the packaging thereof;

    (b) offers or exposes goods for sale, puts them on the market or
         stocks them for those purposes under the sign, or offers or
         supplies services under the sign;

    (c) imports or exports goods under the sign;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     38

(d) uses the sign on an invoice, wine list, catalogue, business
     letter, business paper, price list or other commercial
     document, including any such document in any medium; or

          (e) uses the sign in advertising.

(5) Despite subsection (4), a person who —

(a) applies a sign to any material used or intended to be used
     for labelling or packaging goods; or

(b) uses a sign on any document described in subsection (4)(d)
     or in advertising,

is deemed not to use the sign if, at the time of such application or use,
the person does not know nor have reason to believe that the
proprietor or a licensee of the registered trade mark did not consent to
such application or use of the sign.

Acts not amounting to infringement

 28.—(1) Despite section 27, a person does not infringe a registered
trade mark when —

       (a) the person uses —

               (i) the person’s name or the name of the person’s place
                   of business; or

              (ii) the name of the person’s predecessor in business or
                   the name of the person’s predecessor’s place of
                   business;

       (b) the person uses a sign to indicate —

               (i) the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value,
                   geographical origin or other characteristic of goods
                   or services; or

              (ii) the time of production of goods or of the rendering of
                   services; or

       (c) the person uses the trade mark to indicate the intended
            purpose of goods (in particular as accessories or spare
            parts) or services,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
39  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

and such use is in accordance with honest practices in industrial or
commercial matters.

 (2) Despite section 27, a person does not infringe a registered trade
mark by using an unregistered trade mark that is identical with or
similar to the registered trade mark in relation to goods or services
identical with or similar to those for which the trade mark is
registered if the person, or the person and the person’s predecessor in
title, have continuously used in the course of trade the unregistered
trade mark in relation to those goods or services from a time before —

    (a) the date of registration of the registered trade mark; or

    (b) the date the proprietor of the registered trade mark, or a
         predecessor in title, or a person who was a registered user
         of the trade mark under the repealed Act, first used the
         trade mark,

whichever is the earlier.

 (3) Despite section 27, a registered trade mark is not infringed by
the use of another registered trade mark in relation to goods or
services for which the latter is registered.

 (4) Despite section 27, a person who uses a registered trade mark
does not infringe the trade mark if such use —

    (a) constitutes fair use in comparative commercial advertising
         or promotion;

    (b) is for a non-commercial purpose; or

    (c) is for the purpose of news reporting or news commentary.

Exhaustion of rights conferred by registered trade mark

 29.—(1) Despite section 27, a registered trade mark is not infringed
by the use of the trade mark in relation to goods which have been put
on the market, whether in Singapore or outside Singapore, under that
trade mark by the proprietor of the registered trade mark or with the
proprietor’s express or implied consent (conditional or otherwise).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     40

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply where —

(a) the condition of the goods has been changed or impaired
     after they have been put on the market; and

(b) the use of the registered trade mark in relation to those
     goods has caused dilution in an unfair manner of the
     distinctive character of the registered trade mark.

Registration subject to disclaimer or limitation

 30.—(1) An applicant for registration of a trade mark, or the
proprietor of a registered trade mark, may —

       (a) disclaim any right to the exclusive use of any specified
            element of the trade mark; or

       (b) agree that the rights conferred by the registration are
            subject to a specified territorial or other limitation.

 (2) Where the registration of a trade mark is subject to a disclaimer
or limitation, the rights conferred by section 26 are restricted
accordingly.

 (3) The Minister may make rules as to the publication and entry in
the register of a disclaimer or limitation.

                         Infringement proceedings

Action for infringement

 31.—(1) An infringement of a registered trade mark is actionable
by the proprietor of the trade mark.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, in an action for an
infringement, the types of relief that the Court may grant include the
following:

       (a) an injunction (subject to such terms (if any) as the Court
            thinks fit);

       (b) damages;

       (c) an account of profits;

       (d) in any case to which subsection (5) applies, statutory
            damages under subsection (5)(c).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
41  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) When the Court awards any damages under subsection (2)(b),
the Court may also make an order under subsection (2)(c) for an
account of any profits attributable to the infringement that have not
been taken into account in computing the damages.

 (4) Except as provided for in subsection (3), the types of relief
referred to in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of subsection (2) are
mutually exclusive.

 (5) In any action for infringement of a registered trade mark where
the infringement involves the use of a counterfeit trade mark in
relation to goods or services, the claimant is entitled, at the claimant’s
election, to —

    (a) damages and an account of any profits attributable to the
         infringement that have not been taken into account in
         computing the damages;

    (b) an account of profits; or

    (c) statutory damages —

    (i) not exceeding $100,000 for each type of goods or
        service in relation to which the counterfeit trade
        mark has been used; and

              (ii) not exceeding in the aggregate $1 million, unless the
                   claimant proves that the claimant’s actual loss from
                   such infringement exceeds $1 million.

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) In awarding statutory damages under subsection (5)(c), the
Court is to have regard to —

    (a) the flagrancy of the infringement of the registered trade
         mark;

    (b) any loss that the claimant has suffered or is likely to suffer
         by reason of the infringement;

                                                                        [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    (c) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by
         reason of the infringement;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     42

(d) the need to deter other similar instances of infringement;
     and

          (e) all other relevant matters.

Order for erasure, etc., of offending sign

 32.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), where a person is found to have
infringed a registered trade mark, the Court may make an order
requiring the person —

       (a) to cause the offending sign to be erased, removed or
            obliterated from any infringing goods, material or articles
            in the person’s possession, custody or control; or

       (b) if it is not reasonably practicable for the offending sign to
            be erased, removed or obliterated, to secure the destruction
            of the infringing goods, material or articles in question.

 (2) If an order under subsection (1) is not complied with, or it
appears to the Court likely that such an order would not be complied
with, the Court may order that the infringing goods, material or
articles be delivered up to such person as the Court may direct for
erasure, removal or obliteration of the sign, or for destruction, as the
case may be.

 (3) Where a person who is found to have infringed a registered trade
mark has in the person’s possession, custody or control any
counterfeit goods, the Court is to order that the counterfeit goods
be delivered up to such person as the Court may direct for destruction
if —

       (a) the claimant applies to the Court for such an order; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) the Court is of the view that there are no exceptional
            circumstances which justify the refusal of such an order.

Order for delivery up of infringing goods, material or articles

 33.—(1) The Court may, in addition to any relief granted under
sections 31 and 32 in any action for an infringement of a registered
trade mark, order any infringing goods, material or articles in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
43  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

possession of the defendant or before the Court to be delivered up to
the claimant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) An order is not to be made under this section unless the Court
also makes, or it appears to the Court that there are grounds for
making, an order under section 34.

 (3) A person to whom any infringing goods, material or articles are
delivered up pursuant to an order under this section must, if an order
under section 34 is not made, retain them pending the making of an
order, or the decision not to make an order, under that section.

Order as to disposal of infringing goods, material or articles

 34.—(1) Where infringing goods, material or articles have been
delivered up pursuant to an order under section 33, an application
may be made to the Court —

       (a) for an order that they be destroyed or forfeited to such
            person as the Court may think fit; or

       (b) for a decision that no such order should be made.

 (2) In considering what order (if any) should be made, the Court is
to have regard to —

       (a) whether other remedies available in an action for
            infringement of the registered trade mark would be
            adequate to compensate the claimant and protect the
            interest of the claimant; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) the need to ensure that no infringing goods, material or
            articles are disposed of in a manner that would adversely
            affect the claimant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) Despite subsection (2), where the infringing goods are
counterfeit goods, the Court is to order that the goods be destroyed
if —

       (a) the claimant applies to the Court for such an order; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     44

(b) the Court is of the view that there are no exceptional
     circumstances which justify the refusal of such an order.

 (4) The Court is to issue directions as to the service of notice on
persons having an interest in the goods, material or articles.

 (5) Any person having an interest in the goods, material or articles
is entitled —

(a) to appear in proceedings for an order under this section,
     whether or not that person is served with notice; and

(b) to appeal against any order made, whether or not that
     person appears in the proceedings.

 (6) An order made under this section does not take effect until the
end of the period within which notice of an appeal may be given or, if
before the end of that period notice of appeal is duly given, until the
final determination or abandonment of the proceedings on the appeal.

 (7) Subject to subsection (3), where there is more than one person
interested in the goods, material or articles, the Court may direct that
the goods, material or articles be sold, or otherwise dealt with, and the
proceeds divided, and is to make any other order as it thinks just.

 (8) If the Court decides that no order should be made under this
section, the person in whose possession, custody or control the goods,
material or articles were before being delivered up, is entitled to their
return.

Remedy for groundless threats of infringement proceedings

 35.—(1) Where a person threatens another with proceedings for
infringement of a registered trade mark other than —

       (a) the application of the mark to goods or to material used or
            intended to be used for labelling or packaging goods;

       (b) the importation of goods to which, or to the packaging of
            which, the mark has been applied; or

       (c) the supply of services under the mark,

any aggrieved person may bring proceedings for relief under this
section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
45  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

(2) The relief which may be applied for is any of the following:

    (a) a declaration that the threats are unjustifiable;

    (b) an injunction against the continuance of the threats;

    (c) damages in respect of any loss the person has sustained by
        the threats.

 (3) The claimant is entitled to the relief mentioned in subsection (2)
unless the defendant shows that the acts in respect of which
proceedings were threatened constitute (or if done would
constitute) an infringement of the registered trade mark concerned.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) If the defendant showed that the acts in respect of which
proceedings were threatened constitute (or if done would constitute)
an infringement of the registered trade mark concerned, the claimant
is nevertheless entitled to relief if the claimant shows that the
registration of the trade mark is invalid or liable to be revoked in a
relevant respect.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) The mere notification that a trade mark is registered, or that an
application for registration has been made, does not constitute a threat
of proceedings for the purposes of this section.

 (6) Nothing in this section renders an advocate and solicitor liable
to an action under this section in respect of an act done by him or her
in his or her professional capacity on behalf of a client.

                                    PART 4
  REGISTERED TRADE MARK AS OBJECT OF PROPERTY
Nature of registered trade mark
 36. A registered trade mark is personal property.

Co-ownership of registered trade mark
 37.—(1) Where a registered trade mark is granted to 2 or more

persons jointly, each of them is entitled, subject to any agreement to
the contrary, to an equal undivided share in the registered trade mark.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     46

 (2) Subsections (3) to (8) apply where 2 or more persons are
co‑proprietors of a registered trade mark, by virtue of subsection (1)
or otherwise.

 (3) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, each co-proprietor is
entitled, by himself, herself or itself or the co‑proprietor’s agents, to
do for the co‑proprietor’s own benefit and without the consent of or
the need to account to the other or others, any act which would
otherwise amount to an infringement of the registered trade mark.

 (4) One co-proprietor may not, without the consent of the other or
others —

(a) grant a licence to use the registered trade mark; or

(b) assign or charge that co‑proprietor’s share in the registered
     trade mark.

 (5) Infringement proceedings may be brought by any co‑proprietor,
but the co‑proprietor may not, without the permission of the Court,
proceed with the action unless the other, or each of the others, is either
joined as a claimant or added as a defendant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) A co-proprietor who is added as a defendant under
subsection (5) is not to be made liable for any costs in the action
unless that co‑proprietor takes part in the proceedings.

 (7) Nothing in subsection (5) affects the granting of interlocutory
relief on the application of a single co‑proprietor.

 (8) Nothing in this section affects the mutual rights and obligations
of trustees or personal representatives, or their rights and obligations
as such.

Assignment, etc., of registered trade mark

 38.—(1) A registered trade mark is assignable and transmissible in
the same way as other personal or movable property, and is so
assignable or transmissible either in connection with the goodwill of a
business or independently.

 (2) An assignment or transmission of a registered trade mark may
be partial, that is, limited so as to apply in relation to some but not all
of the goods or services for which the trade mark is registered.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
47  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (3) An assignment of a registered trade mark, or an assent relating
to a registered trade mark, is not effective unless it is in writing signed
by or on behalf of the assignor or (as the case may be) a personal
representative.

 (4) Subsection (3) may be satisfied in a case where the assignor or
personal representative is a body corporate by the affixing of its seal.

 (5) Subsections (1) to (4) apply to assignment by way of security as
they apply to any other assignment.

 (6) A registered trade mark may be the subject of a charge in the
same way as other personal or movable property.

 (7) Nothing in this Act is to be construed as affecting the
assignment or transmission of an unregistered trade mark as part of
the goodwill of a business.

Registration of transactions affecting registered trade mark

 39.—(1) On application being made to the Registrar by —

       (a) a person claiming to be entitled to an interest in or under a
            registered trade mark by virtue of a registrable transaction;
            or

       (b) any other person claiming to be affected by such a
            transaction,

the prescribed particulars of the transaction must be entered in the
register.

 (2) The following are registrable transactions under subsection (1):

       (a) an assignment of a registered trade mark or any right in it;

       (b) the grant of a licence under a registered trade mark;

       (c) the granting of any security interest (whether fixed or
            floating) over a registered trade mark or any right in or
            under it;

       (d) the making by personal representatives of an assent in
            relation to a registered trade mark or any right in or under
            it;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     48

          (e) an order of the Court or other competent authority
              transferring a registered trade mark or any right in or
              under it.

 (3) Until an application has been made for the registration of the
prescribed particulars of a registrable transaction mentioned in
subsection (2)(a), (c), (d) or (e), the transaction is ineffective as
against a person acquiring a conflicting interest in or under the
registered trade mark in ignorance of the transaction.

 (4) A person who becomes the proprietor of a registered trade mark
by virtue of any registrable transaction mentioned in
subsection (2)(a), (c), (d) or (e) is not entitled to damages, an
account of profits or statutory damages under section 31(5)(c) in
respect of any infringement of the registered trade mark occurring
after the date of the transaction and before the date of the application
for the registration of the prescribed particulars of the transaction.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsections (3) and (4) do not apply to any
registrable transaction relating to —

(a) a licence under a registered trade mark; or

(b) any right in or under the licence.

(6) Provision may be made by rules as to —

(a) the amendment of registered particulars relating to a
     licence so as to reflect any alteration of the terms of the
     licence; and

(b) the removal of such particulars from the register —

          (i) where it appears from the registered particulars that
              the licence was granted for a fixed period and that
              period has expired; or

          (ii) where no such period is indicated and, after such
               period as may be prescribed, the Registrar has
               notified the parties of his or her intention to
               remove the particulars from the register.

 (7) Provision may also be made by rules as to the amendment of or
removal from the register of particulars relating to a security interest

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
49  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

on the application of, or with the consent of, the person entitled to the
benefit of that interest.

Trusts and equities

 40.—(1) No notice of any implied or constructive trust is to be
entered in the register, and the Registrar is not to be affected by any
such notice.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (2) A notice of an express trust or of the beneficiary of an express
trust, or both, may be entered in the register; but —

       (a) the Registrar is not to be affected by any such notice in the
            register; and

       (b) to avoid doubt, a failure to enter such notice in the register
            does not affect any rights or duties under the trust.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, equities in respect of a
registered trade mark may be enforced in like manner as in respect of
other personal or movable property.

Application for registration of trade mark as object of property

 41.—(1) The provisions of sections 36, 37, 38 and 40 apply, with
the necessary modifications, in relation to an application for the
registration of a trade mark as they apply in relation to a registered
trade mark.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the reference in section 37(1)
to the granting of a registration is to be construed as a reference to the
making of an application for the registration of a trade mark.

 (3) Any person claiming to be —

       (a) entitled to an interest in or under an application for
            registration of a trade mark by virtue of a registrable
            transaction; or

       (b) affected by a registrable transaction,

may give to the Registrar notice of the prescribed particulars of the
transaction.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     50

(4) The following are registrable transactions under subsection (3):

(a) an assignment of an application for registration of a trade
     mark or any right in it;

(b) the grant of a licence under an application for registration
     of a trade mark;

          (c) the granting of any security interest (whether fixed or
              floating) over an application for registration of a trade
              mark or any right in or under it;

(d) the making by personal representatives of an assent in
     relation to an application for registration of a trade mark or
     any right in or under it;

       (e) an order of the Court or other competent authority
            transferring an application for registration of a trade
            mark or any right in or under it.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (5) The Registrar must maintain a record of each notice given to the
Registrar under subsection (3).

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (6) Until the notice mentioned in subsection (3) has been given to
the Registrar in respect of a transaction mentioned in
subsection (4)(a), (c), (d) or (e), the transaction is ineffective as
against a person acquiring a conflicting interest in or under the
application for registration of a trade mark in ignorance of the
transaction.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (7) To avoid doubt, subsection (6) does not apply to any registrable
transaction relating to —

(a) a licence under an application for registration of a trade
     mark; or

      (b) any right in or under the licence.                       [3/2007]
(8) Provision may be made by rules as to —

(a) the amendment of the record maintained by the Registrar
     relating to the particulars of a grant of a licence under an
     application for registration of a trade mark, notice of which

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
51  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    has been given to the Registrar under subsection (3), so as
    to reflect any alteration of the terms of the licence; and

    (b) the removal from the records maintained by the Registrar
         of the particulars of a grant of a licence under an
         application for registration of a trade mark, notice of
         which has been given to the Registrar under
         subsection (3) —

    (i) where it appears from the particulars that the licence
        was granted for a fixed period and that period has
        expired; or

              (ii) where no such period is indicated and, after such
                   period as may be prescribed, the Registrar has
                   notified the parties of his or her intention to
                   remove the particulars from the records.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

 (9) Provision may also be made by rules as to the amendment of the
record maintained by the Registrar relating to, or the removal from
the records maintained by the Registrar of, the particulars of the
granting of a security interest over an application for registration of a
trade mark on the application of, or with the consent of, the person
entitled to the benefit of that interest.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

                                    PART 5

                                 LICENSING

Licensing of registered trade mark

 42.—(1) A licence to use a registered trade mark may be general or
limited.

 (2) A limited licence may, in particular, apply in relation to some
but not all of the goods or services for which the trade mark is
registered.

 (3) A licence is not effective unless it is in writing signed by or on
behalf of the grantor.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     52

 (4) Subsection (3) may be satisfied in a case where the grantor is a
body corporate by the affixing of its seal.

 (5) Subject to subsection (7), a licence to use a registered trade
mark is binding on every successor in title to the grantor’s interest —

(a) except any person who, in good faith and without any
     notice (actual or constructive) of the licence, has given
     valuable consideration for the interest in the registered
     trade mark; or

(b) unless the licence provides otherwise,

and any reference in this Act to doing anything with, or without, the
consent of the proprietor of a registered trade mark is to be construed
accordingly.

 (6) Every person is deemed to have notice of a licence if the
prescribed particulars of the grant of the licence are entered in the
register under section 39(1).

 (7) Where an application under section 39(1) is made before 1 July
2004 to register the prescribed particulars of the grant of a licence,
then, unless the licence provides otherwise, the licence is binding on
every successor in title to the grantor’s interest.

 (8) Where the licence so provides, a sub‑licence may be granted by
the licensee; and references in this Act to a licence or licensee include
references to a sub‑licence or sub‑licensee.

Exclusive licences

 43.—(1) In this Act, an “exclusive licence” means a licence
(whether general or limited) authorising the licensee to the
exclusion of all other persons, including the person granting the
licence, to use a registered trade mark in the manner authorised by the
licence, and the expression “exclusive licensee” is to be construed
accordingly.

 (2) Section 42 applies, with the necessary modifications, to an
exclusive licence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
53  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

General provisions as to rights of licensees in case of
infringement

 44.—(1) This section has effect with respect to the rights of a
licensee in relation to infringement of a registered trade mark.

 (2) The provisions of this section do not apply where or to the
extent that, by virtue of section 45(1), the licensee has a right to bring
proceedings in the licensee’s own name.

 (3) A licensee is entitled, unless the licensee’s licence, or any
licence through which the licensee’s interest is derived, provides
otherwise, to call on the proprietor of the registered trade mark to take
infringement proceedings in respect of any matter which affects the
licensee’s interests.

(4) If the proprietor —

    (a) refuses to do so; or

    (b) fails to do so within 2 months after being called upon,

the licensee may bring the proceedings in the licensee’s own name as
if the licensee were the proprietor.

 (5) Where infringement proceedings are brought by a licensee by
virtue of this section, the licensee may not, without the permission of
the Court, proceed with the action unless the proprietor is either
joined as a claimant or added as a defendant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) Subsection (5) does not affect the granting of interlocutory relief
on an application by a licensee alone.

 (7) A proprietor who is added as a defendant under subsection (5) is
not to be made liable for any costs in the action unless the proprietor
takes part in the proceedings.

 (8) In infringement proceedings brought by the proprietor of a
registered trade mark, any loss suffered or likely to be suffered by
licensees must be taken into account.

 (9) The Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to the
extent to which the claimant is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary
remedy on behalf of licensees.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     54

 (10) The provisions of this section apply in relation to an exclusive
licensee if or to the extent that the exclusive licensee has, by virtue of
section 45(1), the rights and remedies of an assignee as if the
exclusive licensee were the proprietor of the registered trade mark.

Exclusive licensee having rights and remedies of assignee

 45.—(1) An exclusive licence may provide that the licensee has, to
such extent as may be provided by the licence, the same rights and
remedies in respect of matters occurring after the grant of the licence
as if the licence had been an assignment.

 (2) Where or to the extent that the provision referred to in
subsection (1) is made, the licensee is entitled, subject to the
provisions of the licence and to the provisions of this section, to bring
infringement proceedings, against any person other than the
proprietor, in the licensee’s own name.

 (3) Any such rights and remedies of an exclusive licensee are
concurrent with those of the proprietor of the registered trade mark,
and references to the proprietor of a registered trade mark in the
provisions of this Act relating to infringement are to be construed
accordingly.

 (4) In an action brought by an exclusive licensee by virtue of this
section, a defendant may avail himself, herself or itself of any defence
which would have been available to the defendant if the action had
been brought by the proprietor of the registered trade mark.

 (5) Where the proprietor or an exclusive licensee of a registered
trade mark brings proceedings for any infringement of the trade mark
in respect of which the proprietor and the exclusive licensee have
concurrent rights of action, the proprietor or the exclusive licensee (as
the case may be) need not —

       (a) join the other as a claimant; or

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) add the other as a defendant,

unless the Court otherwise orders.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
55  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (6) A person who is added as a defendant as mentioned in
subsection (5) is not to be made liable for any costs in the action
unless the person takes part in the proceedings.

 (7) Where an action for infringement of a registered trade mark is
brought which relates wholly or partly to an infringement in respect
of which the proprietor and an exclusive licensee have or had
concurrent rights of action —

    (a) the Court is, when assessing damages, ordering an account
         of profits or awarding statutory damages under
         section 31(5)(c), to take into account —

    (i) the terms of the licence; and

    (ii) any pecuniary remedy already awarded or available
         to either of them in respect of the infringement; and

    (b) subject to any agreement between them, the Court may —

    (i) assess the damages or award the statutory damages
        due to each of them according to the losses suffered
        or likely to be suffered by the person as a result of the
        infringement; or

    (ii) apportion between them the profits due to each of
         them according to what is attributable to the
         infringement of the person’s rights.

 (8) Subsection (7) applies whether or not the proprietor and the
exclusive licensee are both parties to the action, and if they are not
both parties, the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to
the extent to which the party to the proceedings is to hold the proceeds
of any pecuniary remedy on behalf of the other.

 (9) The Court, in making an order under section 33, may have
regard to the terms of any exclusive licence.

 (10) The provisions of subsections (5) to (9) have effect subject to
any agreement to the contrary between the exclusive licensee and the
proprietor.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.            Trade Marks Act 1998                           56

                    PART 6

                    OFFENCES

Counterfeiting a trade mark

 46.—(1) Any person who counterfeits a registered trade mark shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

(2) A person who —

(a) makes a sign identical to or so nearly resembling a
     registered trade mark as to be calculated to deceive; or

(b) falsifies a genuine registered trade mark, whether by
     alteration, addition, effacement, partial removal or
     otherwise,

without the consent of the proprietor of the registered trade mark is
deemed to counterfeit a registered trade mark.

 (3) In a prosecution under this section, the burden of proving the
consent of the proprietor lies on the accused.

Falsely applying a registered trade mark to goods or services

 47.—(1) Any person who falsely applies a registered trade mark to
goods or services shall, unless the person proves that the person acted
innocently, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (2) For the purposes of this section and sections 49, 53 and 53A, a
person falsely applies a registered trade mark to goods or services
if —

       (a) without the consent of the proprietor of the registered trade
            mark, the person applies the trade mark or a sign likely to
            be mistaken for that trade mark to the goods or services;
            and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
57  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case of an application to goods, the goods are not the
         genuine goods of the proprietor or licensee of the
         registered trade mark.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a trade mark is deemed to be
applied to goods or services if it is used in —

    (a) any sign or advertisement; or

    (b) any invoice, wine list, catalogue, business letter, business
         paper, price list or other commercial document, including
         any such document in any medium,

and the goods are delivered, or services provided (as the case may be)
to a person pursuant to a request or order made by reference to the
trade mark as so used.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (2) —

    (a) a sign is deemed to be applied to goods if —

    (i) it is applied to the goods themselves; or

    (ii) it is applied to any covering, label, reel or thing in or
         with which the goods are sold, offered or exposed for
         sale or had in possession for a purpose of trade or
         manufacture; and

    (b) a sign is deemed to be applied to goods or services if it is
         used in a manner that is likely to lead persons to believe
         that it refers to, describes or designates the goods or
         services.

(5) In subsection (4) —

    “covering” includes any stopper, glass, bottle, vessel, box,
       capsule, case, frame or wrapper;

    “label” includes any band or ticket.

 (6) In a prosecution under this section or section 49, the burden of
proving the consent of the proprietor lies on the accused.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     58

Making or possessing of article for committing offence

48. Any person who —

(a) makes an article specifically designed or adapted for
     making copies of a registered trade mark or a sign likely to
     be mistaken for that trade mark; or

(b) has such an article in the person’s possession, custody or
     control,

knowing or having reason to believe that it has been, or is to be, used
for, or in the course of, committing an offence against section 46 or
47, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 5 years or to both.

Importing or selling, etc., goods with falsely applied trade
mark

 49. Any person who —

       (a) imports into Singapore for the purpose of trade or
            manufacture;

       (b) sells or offers or exposes for sale; or

       (c) has in the person’s possession for the purpose of trade or
            manufacture,

any goods to which a registered trade mark is falsely applied shall,
unless the person proves that —

       (d) having taken all reasonable precautions against
            committing an offence under this section, the person
            had, at the time of the commission of the alleged offence,
            no reason to suspect the genuineness of the mark and on
            demand made by or on behalf of the prosecution, the
            person gave all the information in the person’s power with
            respect to the persons from whom the person obtained the
            goods; or

       (e) the person had acted innocently,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
59  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 for each goods or thing to which the trade mark is
falsely applied (but not exceeding in the aggregate $100,000) or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Falsification of register, etc.

 50. Any person who —

       (a) makes, or causes to be made, a false entry in the register;

       (b) makes, or causes to be made, any thing false purporting to
            be a copy of an entry in the register; or

       (c) produces or tenders or causes to be produced or tendered in
            evidence any thing mentioned in paragraph (b),

knowing or having reason to believe that the entry or thing (as the
case may be) is false shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Falsely representing trade mark as registered

 51.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) falsely represents that a mark is a registered trade mark; or

       (b) makes a false representation as to the goods or services for
            which a trade mark is registered,

knowing or having reason to believe that the representation is false
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) For the purposes of this section, the use in the course of trade in
Singapore in relation to a trade mark of —

       (a) the word “registered”; or

       (b) any other word or symbol importing a reference (express or
            implied) to registration,

is deemed to be a representation as to registration under this Act
unless it is shown that the reference is to registration elsewhere than

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     60

in Singapore and that the trade mark is in fact so registered for the
goods or services in question.

Representation on trade marks of Arms or Flags prohibited,
etc.

 52.—(1) Any person who causes or permits to appear on a trade
mark used by the person for the purposes of the person’s trade any
representation of the Arms or the Flag of Singapore, or of any arms or
devices likely to be mistaken for them, shall, unless such trade mark
is authorised to be used by order of the President, be guilty of an
offence.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) imports into Singapore for the purpose of trade or
            manufacture;

       (b) sells or offers or exposes for sale; or

       (c) has in the person’s possession for the purpose of trade or
            manufacture,

any goods or things to which a trade mark bearing any representation
prohibited by subsection (1) is applied shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both, and shall
forfeit to the Government any goods or things to which the trade mark
bearing the prohibited representation is applied.

Forfeiture and destruction of goods, etc., on conviction

 53.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where any person has been
convicted of an offence under any provision of this Part, the court
may, where it considers appropriate, order the person to forfeit to the
Government all or any —

       (a) goods in relation to which; or

       (b) articles by means of which,

the offence was committed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
61         Trade Marks Act 1998                              2020 Ed.

 (2) Where any person has been convicted of an offence under
section 47 or 49 in relation to a registered trade mark, the court is,
unless it is of the view that there are exceptional circumstances for
deciding otherwise, to order to be forfeited to the Government and
destroyed any goods which satisfy all of the following conditions:

    (a) the goods are goods in relation to which —

    (i) the offence was committed; and

    (ii) the trade mark has been falsely applied;

    (b) the goods or their packaging bear the trade mark or sign
         giving rise to the false application of the trade mark.

(3) Any —

    (a) forfeiture of goods or articles under subsection (1); or

    (b) forfeiture and destruction of goods under subsection (2),

is in addition to any penalty or punishment that the court may impose
for the offence committed.

Enforcement measures

 53A.—(1) Any police officer may arrest without warrant any
person who, in any street or public place —

       (a) sells or offers or exposes for sale; or

       (b) has, or is reasonably suspected of having, in the person’s
            possession for the purpose of trade or manufacture,

any goods to which a registered trade mark is falsely applied.

 (2) Any authorised officer may, without a warrant issued under
subsection (3) —

       (a) stop, search and board, whether forcibly or otherwise, any
            conveyance in which the authorised officer reasonably
            suspects there are goods to which a registered trade mark
            has been falsely applied; and

       (b) seize, remove or detain any such goods and anything which
            appears to the authorised officer —

               (i) to be or to contain; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     62

          (ii) to be likely to be or to contain,

(b) evidence of any offence under section 46, 47, 48, 49 or 52.

 (3) If information is given upon oath to a court that there is
reasonable cause for suspecting that there is in any premises or
conveyance —

(a) any goods which are the subject of an offence under
     section 46, 47, 48, 49 or 52;

(b) any material or article which has been used in the
     commission of an offence under section 46, 47, 48, 49
     or 52; or

          (c) any document which is evidence that an offence under
              section 46, 47, 48, 49 or 52 has been committed,

the court may issue, either unconditionally or subject to such
conditions as the court thinks fit, a warrant authorising a police
officer to enter and search the premises or conveyance for any goods,
material, article or document referred to in the warrant, whether
specifically or in any general category, and to seize any such goods,
material, article or document found at the premises or conveyance.

 (4) If any goods, material, article or document has been seized
under subsection (3) and —

(a) in proceedings brought under section 46, 47, 48, 49 or 52,
     no order is made —

          (i) as to the disposal of the goods, material, article or
              document; or

          (ii) in the case of any goods or article mentioned in
               section 53, under section 53(1) or (2); or

(b) no such proceedings are instituted within 6 months of the
     seizure,

the goods, material, article or document must be returned to the
person in whose possession it was when it was seized or, if it is not
reasonably practicable to return it to that person, must be disposed of
in accordance with the law regulating the disposal of lost or
unclaimed property in the hands of police authorities.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
63  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) No action or other legal proceeding shall lie against the
Government or any officer or employee thereof for anything which
is in good faith done or omitted to be done in the exercise of any
power, duty or function under this section.

 (5A) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on an authorised officer by this section.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (5B) An appointment under subsection (5A) must be published in
the Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (6) In this section —

    “authorised officer” means —

    (a) a police officer;

    (b) an officer of customs as defined in the Customs
         Act 1960;

    (c) an immigration officer as defined in the Immigration
        Act 1959; or

            (d) any officer or class or description of officers
                 appointed under subsection (5A);

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

    “conveyance” includes any vehicle, vessel, train or aircraft in
       which persons or goods can be carried;

    “document” means anything in which information of any
       description is recorded;

    “premises” includes any land, building or structure.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     64

          PART 7

          INTERNATIONAL MATTERS

          The Madrid Protocol, etc.

Power to make provision giving effect to Madrid Protocol, etc.

 54.—(1) The Minister may make rules to give effect in Singapore to
the provisions of the Madrid Protocol or of any treaty, convention,
arrangement or engagement relating to trade marks to which
Singapore is a party.

(2) Rules may, in particular, be made to provide for —

(a) the making of applications for international registrations
     by way of the Registry as office of origin;

(b) the procedures to be followed where the basic Singapore
     application or registration fails or ceases to be in force;

          (c) the procedures to be followed where the Registry receives
              from the International Bureau or any body specified in the
              rules a request for extension of protection to Singapore;

(d) the effects of a successful request for extension of
     protection to Singapore;

          (e) the transformation of an application for an international
              registration, or an international registration, into a national
              application for registration;

          (f) the communication of information to the International
              Bureau; and

(g) the payment of fees and amounts prescribed in respect of
     applications for international registrations, extensions of
     protection and renewals.

 (3) Provision may also be made in the rules to apply in relation to an
international trade mark (Singapore) the provisions of section 35 and
Parts 6 and 10.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
65  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     The Paris Convention, the TRIPS Agreement and
    well known trade marks: supplementary provisions

Protection of well known trade marks

 55.—(1) A well known trade mark is entitled to protection under
this section —

    (a) whether or not the trade mark has been registered in
         Singapore, or an application for the registration of the trade
         mark has been made to the Registrar; and

    (b) whether or not the proprietor of the trade mark carries on
         business, or has any goodwill, in Singapore.

 (2) Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the proprietor of a well
known trade mark is entitled to restrain by injunction the use in
Singapore, in the course of trade and without the proprietor’s consent,
of any trade mark which, or an essential part of which, is identical
with or similar to the proprietor’s trade mark, in relation to identical
or similar goods or services, where the use is likely to cause
confusion.

 (3) Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the proprietor of a well
known trade mark is entitled to restrain by injunction the use in
Singapore, in the course of trade and without the proprietor’s consent,
of any trade mark which, or an essential part of which, is identical
with or similar to the proprietor’s trade mark, in relation to any goods
or services, where the use of the trade mark —

    (a) would indicate a connection between those goods or
         services and the proprietor, and is likely to damage the
         interests of the proprietor; or

    (b) if the proprietor’s trade mark is well known to the public at
         large in Singapore —

    (i) would cause dilution in an unfair manner of the
        distinctive character of the proprietor’s trade mark;
        or

    (ii) would take unfair advantage of the distinctive
         character of the proprietor’s trade mark.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     66

 (4) Subject to subsections (6) and (7), the proprietor of a well
known trade mark is entitled to restrain by injunction the use in
Singapore without the proprietor’s consent of any business identifier
which, or an essential part of which, is identical with or similar to the
proprietor’s trade mark, where the use of the business identifier —

(a) would indicate a connection between the business in
     respect of which it is used and the proprietor, and is likely
     to damage the interests of the proprietor; or

(b) if the proprietor’s trade mark is well known to the public at
     large in Singapore —

          (i) would cause dilution in an unfair manner of the
              distinctive character of the proprietor’s trade mark;
              or

          (ii) would take unfair advantage of the distinctive
               character of the proprietor’s trade mark.

 (5) If the Court grants an injunction under subsection (4) restraining
the use by any business of any business identifier, the Court may
make such other order as the Court deems fit in respect of any entry in
any record maintained by any person, body or authority which
associates that business with that business identifier.

 (6) The proprietor is not entitled to the right referred to in
subsection (2), (3) or (4) if the use of the trade mark or business
identifier (as the case may be) began before the proprietor’s trade
mark became well known in Singapore, unless the trade mark or
business identifier has been used in bad faith.

 (7) The proprietor ceases to be entitled to the right referred to in
subsection (2), (3) or (4) if the proprietor has acquiesced for a
continuous period of 5 years in the use of the trade mark or business
identifier (as the case may be) in Singapore, being aware of that use,
unless the trade mark or business identifier has been used in bad faith.

 (8) In deciding whether the trade mark or business identifier (as the
case may be) has been used in bad faith, it is relevant to consider
whether the person who used the trade mark or business identifier
had, at the time the person began to use the trade mark or business

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
67  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

identifier, knowledge of, or reason to know of, the proprietor’s trade
mark.

 (9) Nothing in subsection (2) affects the continuation of any use
mentioned therein in good faith of a trade mark that was begun before
15 January 1999.

 (10) Nothing in subsection (3) or (4) affects the continuation of any
use mentioned therein in good faith of a trade mark or business
identifier (as the case may be) that was begun before 1 July 2004.

 (11) For the purposes of this section and sections 55A, 56, 57 and
59, “use”, in relation to a trade mark, means use within the meaning
of section 27(4).

Permitted use of well known trade marks

 55A.—(1) Despite section 55, the proprietor of a well known trade
mark is not entitled to restrain by injunction the use in Singapore, in
accordance with honest practices in industrial or commercial matters,
by any person of —

       (a) the name of —

               (i) the person himself or herself;

              (ii) the person’s place of business;

             (iii) the person’s predecessor in business; or

             (iv) the place of business of the person’s predecessor in
                   business;

       (b) any sign to indicate —

               (i) the kind, quality, quantity, intended purpose, value,
                   geographical origin or other characteristic of goods
                   or services; or

              (ii) the time of production of goods or of the rendering of
                   services; or

       (c) the trade mark to indicate the intended purpose of goods (in
            particular as accessories or spare parts) or services.

 (2) Despite section 55, the proprietor of a well known trade mark is
not entitled to restrain by injunction the use in Singapore of any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     68

registered trade mark in relation to goods or services for which the
latter is registered.

 (3) Despite section 55, the proprietor of a well known trade mark is
not entitled to restrain by injunction the use in Singapore of the trade
mark if such use —

(a) constitutes fair use in comparative commercial advertising
     or promotion;

(b) is for a non-commercial purpose; or

          (c) is for the purpose of news reporting or news commentary.

National emblems, etc., of Convention countries: Article 6ter of
Paris Convention, etc.

 56.—(1) A trade mark which consists of or contains the flag of a
Convention country must not be registered without the authorisation
of the competent authorities of that country, unless it appears to the
Registrar that use of the flag in the manner proposed is permitted
without such authorisation.

 (2) A trade mark which consists of or contains the armorial bearings
or any other state emblem of a Convention country which is protected
under the Paris Convention or the TRIPS Agreement must not be
registered without the authorisation of the competent authorities of
that country.

 (3) A trade mark which consists of or contains an official sign or
hallmark adopted by a Convention country and indicating control and
warranty must not, where the sign or hallmark is protected under the
Paris Convention or the TRIPS Agreement, be registered in relation
to goods or services of the same, or a similar kind, as those in relation
to which it indicates control and warranty, without the authorisation
of the competent authorities of the country concerned.

 (4) The provisions of this section as to national flags and other state
emblems, and official signs or hallmarks, apply equally to anything
which from a heraldic point of view imitates any such flag or other
emblem, or sign or hallmark.

 (5) Nothing in this section prevents the registration of a trade mark
on the application of a national of a country who is authorised to make

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
69  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

use of a state emblem, or official sign or hallmark, of that country,
even though it is similar to that of another country.

 (6) Where by virtue of this section the authorisation of the
competent authorities of a Convention country is or would be
required for the registration of a trade mark, those authorities are
entitled to restrain by injunction any use in the course of trade of the
trade mark in Singapore without their authorisation.

Emblems, etc., of certain international organisations:
Article 6ter of Paris Convention, etc.

 57.—(1) This section applies to —

       (a) the armorial bearings, flags or other emblems; and

       (b) the abbreviations and names,

of international intergovernmental organisations of which one or
more Convention countries are members.

 (2) A trade mark which consists of or contains any such emblem,
abbreviation or name which is protected under the Paris Convention
or the TRIPS Agreement must not be registered without the
authorisation of the international organisation concerned, unless it
appears to the Registrar that the use of the emblem, abbreviation or
name in the manner proposed —

       (a) is not such as to suggest to the public that a connection
            exists between the organisation and the trade mark; or

       (b) is not likely to mislead the public as to the existence of a
            connection between the user and the organisation.

 (3) The provisions of this section as to emblems of an international
organisation apply equally to anything which from a heraldic point of
view imitates any such emblem.

 (4) Where by virtue of this section the authorisation of an
international organisation is or would be required for the
registration of a trade mark, that organisation is entitled to restrain
by injunction any use in the course of trade of the trade mark in
Singapore without its authorisation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     70

 (5) Nothing in this section affects the rights of a person whose bona
fide use of the trade mark in question began before 23 February 1995
(when the relevant provisions of the Paris Convention entered into
force in relation to Singapore).

Notification under Article 6ter of Paris Convention, etc.

 58.—(1) For the purposes of section 56, state emblems of a
Convention country (other than the national flag), and official signs
or hallmarks, are regarded as protected under the Paris Convention or
the TRIPS Agreement only if, or to the extent that —

       (a) the country in question has notified Singapore in
            accordance with Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention,
            or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement,
            that it desires to protect that emblem, sign or hallmark;

       (b) the notification remains in force; and

       (c) Singapore has not objected to it in accordance with
            Article 6ter(4) of the Paris Convention, or under that
            Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, or any such
            objection has been withdrawn.

 (2) For the purposes of section 57, the emblems, abbreviations and
names of an international organisation are regarded as protected
under the Paris Convention or the TRIPS Agreement only if, or to the
extent that —

       (a) the organisation in question has notified Singapore in
            accordance with Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention, or
            under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, that
            it desires to protect that emblem, abbreviation or name;

       (b) the notification remains in force; and

       (c) Singapore has not objected to it in accordance with
            Article 6ter(4) of the Paris Convention, or under that
            Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, or any such
            objection has been withdrawn.

 (3) Notification under Article 6ter(3) of the Paris Convention, or
under that Article as applied by the TRIPS Agreement, has effect only

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
71  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

in relation to applications for registration made more than 2 months
after the receipt of the notification.

 (4) The Registrar must keep and make available for public
inspection by any person, at all reasonable hours and free of
charge, a list of —

    (a) the state emblems and official signs or hallmarks; and

    (b) the emblems, abbreviations and names of international
         organisations,

which are for the time being protected under the Paris Convention or
the TRIPS Agreement by virtue of a notification under Article 6ter(3)
of that Convention or under that Article as applied by the TRIPS
Agreement.

Acts of agent or representative: Article 6septies of the Paris
Convention, etc.

 59.—(1) Subsections (2) to (6) apply where an application for
registration of a trade mark is made by a person who is an agent or
representative of a person who is the proprietor of the trade mark in a
Convention country.

 (2) If the proprietor opposes the application, registration must be
refused.

 (3) If the application (not being so opposed) is granted, the
proprietor may —

       (a) apply for a declaration of the invalidity of the registration;
            or

       (b) apply for the rectification of the register so as to substitute
            the proprietor’s name as the proprietor of the registered
            trade mark.

 (4) The proprietor may (notwithstanding the rights conferred by
this Act in relation to a registered trade mark) by injunction restrain
any use in the course of trade of the trade mark in Singapore which is
not authorised by the proprietor.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     72

 (5) Subsections (2), (3) and (4) do not apply if, or to the extent that,
the agent or representative justifies the agent’s or representative’s
action.

 (6) An application under subsection (3)(a) or (b) must be made
within 3 years of the proprietor becoming aware of the registration.

 (7) No injunction may be granted under subsection (4) in respect of
a use in which the proprietor has acquiesced for a continuous period
of 3 years or more.

                                    PART 8

     COLLECTIVE MARKS AND CERTIFICATION MARKS

Collective marks

 60.—(1) A collective mark is a sign used, or intended to be used, in
relation to goods or services dealt with or provided in the course of
trade by members of an association to distinguish those goods or
services from goods or services so dealt with or provided by persons
who are not members of the association.

 (2) The provisions of this Act apply to collective marks subject to
the provisions of the First Schedule.

Certification marks

 61.—(1) A certification mark is a sign used, or intended to be used,
to distinguish goods or services —

       (a) dealt with or provided in the course of trade; and

       (b) certified by the proprietor of the certification mark in
            relation to origin, material, mode of manufacture of goods
            or performance of services, quality, accuracy or other
            characteristics,

from other goods or services dealt with or provided in the course of
trade but not so certified.

 (2) The provisions of this Act apply to certification marks subject to
the provisions of the Second Schedule.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
73  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    PART 9

    ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER
    SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS

    The Registrar

Registrar of Trade Marks and other officers

 62.—(1) There is to be a Registrar of Trade Marks who has the
control of the Registry of Trade Marks.

 (2) There are to be one or more Deputy Registrars of Trade Marks
who, subject to the control of the Registrar, have all the powers and
functions of the Registrar under this Act, other than the powers of the
Registrar under section 63.

 (3) There are to be one or more Assistant Registrars of
Trade Marks.

 (4) The Registrar and all the other officers under this section must
be appointed by the Minister.

Delegation by Registrar

 63.—(1) The Registrar may, in relation to a particular matter or
class of matters, by writing under the hand of the Registrar, delegate
all or any of the Registrar’s powers or functions under this Act
(except this power of delegation) to an Assistant Registrar of Trade
Marks, any public officer, or any person with the relevant
qualifications for or experience in the matter or class of matters, so
that the delegated powers and functions may be exercised by the
delegate with respect to the matter or class of matters specified in the
instrument of delegation.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (2) A delegation under this section is revocable at will and no
delegation prevents the exercise of a power or function by the
Registrar or by a Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks.

 (3) A person with the relevant qualifications or experience
mentioned in subsection (1) is, when exercising the delegated
powers and functions, deemed to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     74

Registry of Trade Marks

 64. For the purposes of this Act, there is established an office
known as the Registry of Trade Marks.

Seal of Registry

 65. There is to be a seal of the Registry and impressions of the seal
are to be judicially noticed.

                                 The Register

The register

 66.—(1) The Registrar must maintain a register of trade marks.

 (2) There must be entered in the register in accordance with
this Act —

       (a) registered trade marks;

       (b) such particulars as may be prescribed of registrable
            transactions affecting a registered trade mark; and

       (c) such other matters relating to registered trade marks as may
            be prescribed.

 (3) The register may be kept in whole or in part using a computer.

 (4) Any record of a particular or other matter made by using a
computer for the purpose of keeping the register is taken to be an
entry in the register.

Rectification of register

 67.—(1) Any person having a sufficient interest may apply for the
rectification of an error or omission in the register.

 (2) An application for rectification may not be made in respect of a
matter affecting the validity of the registration of a trade mark.

 (3) An application for rectification may be made either to the
Registrar or to the Court, except that —

       (a) if proceedings concerning the trade mark in question are
            pending in the Court, the application must be made to the
            Court; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
75  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) if in any other case the application is made to the Registrar,
         the Registrar may at any stage of the proceedings refer the
         application to the Court.

 (3A) An application to the Registrar for rectification is subject to
the rules mentioned in section 108(2)(ea).

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 (4) Except where the Registrar or the Court directs otherwise, the
effect of rectification of the register is that the error or omission in
question is deemed never to have been made.

 (5) The Registrar may, on request made in the prescribed manner by
the proprietor of a registered trade mark, or a licensee, enter any
change in the proprietor’s or licensee’s name or address as recorded in
the register.

 (6) The Registrar may remove from the register matter appearing to
the Registrar to have ceased to have effect.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

Inspection of and extract from register

 68.—(1) The register must be available at the Registry for
inspection by any person during the hours when the Registry is
open for business.

 (2) If the register, or any part of the register, is kept by using a
computer, subsection (1) is satisfied if a person who wants to inspect
the register or that part of the register is given access to a computer
terminal from which the person can read on a screen, or obtain a
printed copy of, the particulars or other matters recorded in the
register or that part of the register.

 (3) Any person who applies for a certified copy of an entry in the
register or a certified extract from the register is entitled to obtain
such a copy or extract on payment of the prescribed fee.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

 (4) In relation to any portion of the register kept otherwise than in
documentary form, the right to a copy or extract conferred by
subsection (3) is a right to a copy or extract in a form in which it can
be taken away.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     76

 (5) In this section, “certified copy” and “certified extract” mean a
copy and extract certified by the Registrar.

                                                                                                           [16/2012]

                      Powers and duties of Registrar

Costs awarded by Registrar

 69.—(1) The Registrar may award costs in respect of the matters,
and in the amounts provided for in rules made under this Act, against
any party to proceedings brought before the Registrar.

 (2) The rules may provide for the assessment of the costs, or any
part of the costs, by the Registrar.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) A party desirous to obtain costs or to have the costs assessed
must apply to the Registrar in accordance with the rules.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) If a party is ordered to pay the costs of another party, the costs
may be recovered in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due by
the first party to the other party.

Security for costs

 70. If a person who neither resides nor carries on business in
Singapore —

       (a) gives notice of opposition under section 13; or

       (b) applies to the Registrar under section 22 or 23 for the
            registration of a trade mark to be revoked or to be declared
            invalid, as the case may be,

the Registrar may require the person to give security for the costs for
the proceedings and may, if security is not given, dismiss the
proceedings.

Evidence before Registrar
 71. The Registrar may, for the purposes of any proceedings before

him or her under this Act —
       (a) summon witnesses;
       (b) receive evidence on oath, whether orally or otherwise; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
77  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (c) require the production of documents or articles.

Disobedience to summons an offence

 72.—(1) A person who has been summoned to appear as a witness
before the Registrar must not, without lawful excuse, fail to appear in
obedience to the summons.

 (2) A person who has been required by the Registrar to produce a
document or article must not, without lawful excuse, fail to produce
the document or article.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Refusal to give evidence an offence

 73.—(1) A person who appears before the Registrar must not,
without lawful excuse, refuse to be sworn or to make an affirmation,
or to produce documents or articles, or to answer questions, which the
person is lawfully required to produce or answer.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
both.

Exclusion of liability in respect of official acts

 74.—(1) The Office and the Registrar shall not be taken to warrant
the validity of the registration of a trade mark under this Act or under
any treaty, convention, arrangement or engagement to which
Singapore is a party.

 (2) Neither the Office nor the Registrar is subject to any liability by
reason of, or in connection with, any examination required or
authorised by this Act, or any such treaty, convention, arrangement or
engagement, or any report or other proceedings consequent on such
examination.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     78

 (3) No proceedings shall lie against an officer of the Office or the
Registrar in respect of any matter for which, by virtue of this section,
the Office or the Registrar is not liable.

Appeals from Registrar

 75.—(1) Except as provided under subsections (2) and (3) or by
rules made under this Act, there is no appeal from a decision of the
Registrar for any matter under this Act or the rules made under this
Act.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (2) The following are subject to appeal to the Court:

       (a) a decision of the Registrar as to the registrability of a trade
            mark;

       (b) a decision of the Registrar not to allow any alteration of a
            registered trade mark as described in section 20;

       (c) a decision of the Registrar relating to an application for
            revocation under section 22;

       (d) a decision of the Registrar relating to an application for a
            declaration of invalidity under section 23;

       (e) a decision of the Registrar under section 67.

 (3) Where the Registrar makes a decision in any interlocutory
proceedings between 2 or more parties, and the decision terminates
any matter concerning a trade mark or an application for a trade mark,
any of those parties who is adversely affected by the termination of
the matter may appeal to the Court from the decision of the Registrar.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (4) An appeal does not lie to the appellate court from a decision of
the Court on appeal from a decision of the Registrar for any matter
under this Act or the rules made under this Act unless permission to
appeal is given by the appellate court.

                                                                                                [23/2019; 40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
79  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) In this section, “appellate court” means the court to which an
appeal under subsection (4) is to be made under section 29C of the
Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

            Forms, fees, hours of business and publication

Forms and directions of Registrar

 76. The Minister may make rules for the publication by the
Registrar of —

       (a) the forms to be used for any purpose relating to the
            registration of a trade mark or any other proceedings before
            the Registrar under this Act; and

       (b) the practice directions issued by the Registrar.

Fees

 77.—(1) There must be paid in respect of applications and
registration and other matters under this Act such fees as may be
prescribed.

 (2) The Minister may make rules as to the remission of fees in the
prescribed circumstances.

 (3) All fees collected must be paid into the funds of the Office.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to fees prescribed in rules made
under section 54(2)(g) which are to be forwarded to the International
Bureau.

Hours of business and excluded days
 78.—(1) The Registrar may issue practice directions to specify —
       (a) the hours of business of the Registry; and
       (b) the days which are to be treated as excluded days.
 (2) The Minister may prescribe the effect of doing any business

under this Act —
       (a) on any day after the hours of business of the Registry; or
       (b) on any day which is an excluded day.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                      80

(3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2) —

(a) different hours of business may be specified for different
     classes of business;

(b) different excluded days may be specified for different
     classes of business; and

          (c) different effects of doing business —

          (i) outside the hours of business of the Registry; or

          (ii) on an excluded day,

          (c) may be prescribed for different classes of business.

Publication of trade mark applications, etc.

 79. The Minister may make rules for the publication by the
Registrar of the particulars of any application for the registration of a
trade mark (including a representation of the mark) and such other
information relating to trade marks as the Registrar thinks fit.

                              Trade mark agents

Recognition of agents

 80. Except as otherwise provided by rules, any act required or
authorised by this Act to be done by or to a person in connection with
the registration of a trade mark, or any procedure relating to a
registered trade mark, may be done by or to an agent authorised by
that person orally or in writing.

                                 PART 10
          ASSISTANCE BY BORDER AUTHORITIES

                Division 1 — Preliminary provisions

                                                                   [34/2018]

Interpretation of this Part

 81. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “aircraft” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Regulation
         of Imports and Exports Act 1995;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
81  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    “authorised officer” means —

    (a) an officer of customs as defined in section 3(1) of the
         Customs Act 1960; or

            (b) any officer or class or description of officers
                 appointed under section 81A(2);

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

    “conveyance” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995;

    “Director-General” means the Director-General of Customs
       appointed under section 4(1) of the Customs Act 1960;

    “goods in transit” means goods imported, whether or not landed
       or transhipped within Singapore, which are to be carried to
       another country either by the same or another conveyance;

    “infringement action” means an action for an infringement of
       the relevant registered trade mark constituted by any use of a
       sign (within the meaning of section 27(4)) in relation to the
       seized goods;

    “master” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Regulation of
       Imports and Exports Act 1995;

    “pilot of an aircraft” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Regulation of Imports and Exports Act 1995;

    “proprietor”, in relation to a registered trade mark, includes a
       licensee of the trade mark;

    “requestor”, in relation to particular seized goods, means the
       person who gave the written notice under section 82(1) as a
       result of the giving of which the goods were seized;

    “retention period”, in relation to seized goods, means —

    (a) the period specified in a notice given under section 85
         in respect of the goods; or

    (b) if that period has been extended under section 85, that
         period as so extended;

    “seized goods” means goods seized under section 82;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     82

“senior authorised officer” means —

          (a) a senior officer of customs as defined in section 3(1)
               of the Customs Act 1960; and

        (b) any officer or class or description of officers
             appointed under section 81A(3);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

“vehicle” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Regulation
   of Imports and Exports Act 1995;

“vessel” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Regulation of
   Imports and Exports Act 1995.

                                                                   [34/2018]

Administration of this Part

 81A.—(1) The Director-General may delegate to a senior officer of
customs (within the meaning of section 3(1) of the Customs
Act 1960) any of the powers of the Director‑General under this
Part (except the power of delegation conferred by this section),
subject to such conditions or restrictions as the Director‑General may
determine.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on an authorised officer by this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (3) The Minister may appoint any officer or class or description of
officers to exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred and
imposed on a senior authorised officer by this Part.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (4) An appointment under subsection (2) or (3) must be published
in the Gazette.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
83    Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

Fees

 81B.—(1) The Minister charged with the responsibility for customs
duties may make rules to prescribe the fees payable to the
Director‑General in connection with the administration of this Part.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), rules may be made to prescribe
fees for the following purposes:

      (a) for the escort of a conveyance conveying goods seized
           under section 82(4) or 93A;

      (b) for the attendance of an authorised officer or a senior
           authorised officer in connection with the inspection or
           destruction of such seized goods;

      (c) for the attendance of an authorised officer or a senior
          authorised officer in connection with any other act or
          service under this Part.

                                                                                                      [34/2018]

      Division 2 — Seizure of goods on request

                                                               [34/2018]

Restriction of importation or exportation of infringing goods

 82.—(1) A person who is the proprietor or a licensee of a registered
trade mark may give the Director-General a written notice —

       (a) stating that the person is —

               (i) the proprietor of the registered trade mark; or

              (ii) a licensee thereof having the power to give such a
                   notice;

       (b) stating that goods which, in relation to the registered trade
            mark, are infringing goods are expected to be imported or
            exported;

       (c) providing sufficient information —

               (i) to identify the goods;

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     84

          (ii) to enable the Director-General to ascertain when and
               where the goods are expected to be imported or
               exported; and

          (iii) to satisfy the Director-General that the goods are
                infringing goods; and

      (d) requesting the Director-General to seize the goods.

                                                                                                         [34/2018]

(2) A notice under subsection (1) must be —

(a) in the form determined by the Director‑General, and
     supported by such documents and information as the
     Director‑General may require; and

       (b) accompanied by the fee prescribed under section 81B.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) A notice under subsection (1) remains in force until the 59th day
after the day on which the notice was given, unless it is revoked,
before the end of that period, by written notice given to the
Director‑General —

(a) if the person giving the firstmentioned notice is a licensee
     of the registered trade mark and the licensee has power to
     revoke the notice — by the licensee;

      (b) in any other case — by the person who is then the
           proprietor of the registered trade mark.

                                                                                                         [34/2018]

(4) If —

(a) a notice has been given under this section in respect of a
     registered trade mark;

(b) the notice has not lapsed or been revoked; and

          (c) a person imports or proposes to export goods, not being
              goods in transit, which bear a sign that, or whose
              packaging bears a sign that, in the opinion of an
              authorised officer, is identical with or similar to the
              registered trade mark in question,

an authorised officer may seize the goods.

                                                                   [34/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
85  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (5) The Minister may make rules that are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Division, and in
particular to provide —

    (a) for the times at which, and the manner in which, notices are
         to be given;

    (b) for the giving of information and evidence to the
         Director‑General; and

    (c) that an authorised officer may refuse to seize any goods
        because of non-compliance with any direction of the
        Director‑General or any such rule.

                                                                                                    [34/2018]

Security for liability or expense of seizure, storage and disposal

 83. An authorised officer may refuse to seize goods under
section 82 unless —

       (a) the requestor has deposited with the Director‑General a
            sum of money that, in the opinion of the Director‑General,
            is sufficient to —

               (i) reimburse the Government for any liability or
                   reasonable expense it is likely to incur in relation
                   to the seizure, storage and disposal of the goods; and

              (ii) pay such compensation as may be ordered by the
                   Court under section 89(2) or 90(6); or

       (b) the requestor has given security, to the satisfaction of the
            Director‑General, for the reimbursement of the
            Government for any such liability or expense and the
            payment of such compensation.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Secure storage of seized goods

 84. At the Director‑General’s direction, seized goods must be taken
to a secure place the Director‑General directs, either by the person in
possession, custody or control of those goods immediately before the
seizure or the requestor, whoever the Director‑General considers
appropriate.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.           Trade Marks Act 1998                            86

Notice of seizure

 85.—(1) As soon as is practicable after goods are seized under
section 82, the Director‑General must give to the importer or exporter
(as the case may be), and the requestor, personally, by post or (with
the prior consent of the addressee) by email, a written notice
identifying the goods and stating that they have been seized.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must state that the goods will be
released to the importer or exporter unless —

(a) an infringement action in respect of the goods is instituted
     by the requestor within a specified period after the day
     specified in the notice; and

       (b) the requestor gives written notice to the Director‑General
            within that period stating that the infringement action has
            been instituted.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) The period to be specified for the purpose of paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) is the period prescribed for the purposes of
that paragraph.

 (4) The day specified for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) must not
be earlier than the day on which the notice is given.

 (5) The requestor may, by written notice given to the
Director‑General before the end of the period specified in a notice
for the purposes of subsection (2)(a) (the initial period), request that
the period be extended.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), if —

(a) a request is made in accordance with subsection (5); and

(b) the Director-General is satisfied that it is reasonable that
     the request be granted,

the Director-General may extend the initial period by such period as
is prescribed.

 (7) A decision on a request made in accordance with subsection (5)
must be made within 2 working days after the request is made, but

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
87                  Trade Marks Act 1998                     2020 Ed.

such a decision cannot be made after the end of the initial period to
which the request relates.

Persons bound to give information or produce documents

 85A.—(1) At any time after goods have been seized under
section 82(4), an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer
who has reasonable cause to believe that a person has any information
or document that the officer considers is relevant for any of the
purposes in subsection (2), may require that person to provide to the
officer that information or document at a time and place specified by
the officer.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

(2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

    (a) to enable the Director-General to satisfy a request under
         section 85B (whether or not such a request has actually
         been received);

    (b) to enable any action to be taken under this Division or
         Division 3 in relation to future shipments of goods; and

    (c) for a statistical or research purpose.

                                                             [34/2018]

(3) A person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
         requirement under subsection (1); or

    (b) in purported compliance with such requirement,
         knowingly or recklessly provides any information or
         document that is false or misleading in a material
         particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (4) A person is not excused from providing any information or
document in compliance with a requirement under subsection (1) on
the ground that it might tend to incriminate the person.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     88

 (5) Where the person claims, before providing any information or
document pursuant to a requirement under subsection (1), that it
might tend to incriminate the person, then the information or
document is not admissible in evidence against the person in
criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under
subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (6) No information or document that is provided pursuant to a
requirement under subsection (1) may be published, or
communicated or disclosed to any person, except where and to the
extent it is necessary for a purpose in subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Information on import or export

 85B.—(1) After goods have been seized under section 82(4), the
Director‑General may, upon the request of the requestor, and if the
Director‑General is satisfied that the information is necessary to
enable the requestor to institute an infringement action, give the
requestor the name and contact details of any person connected with
the import or proposed export (as the case may be) of the seized
goods.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Subsection (1) applies despite any duty of confidentiality
imposed by the common law on the Director‑General or a person
to whom the Director‑General has delegated the power under that
subsection.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Inspection, release, etc., of seized goods

 86.—(1) The Director-General may permit the requestor or the
importer or exporter (as the case may be) to inspect the seized goods.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
89  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

 (2) If the requestor gives the requisite undertakings, the
Director‑General may permit the requestor to remove a sample of
the seized goods from the custody of the Director‑General for
inspection by the requestor.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) If the importer or exporter (as the case may be) gives the
Director‑General the requisite undertakings, the Director‑General
may permit the importer or exporter to remove a sample of the seized
goods from the custody of the Director‑General for inspection by the
importer or exporter.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (4) The requisite undertakings are undertakings in writing that the
person giving the undertaking will —

    (a) return the sample to the Director-General at a specified
         time that is satisfactory to the Director‑General; and

    (b) take reasonable care to prevent damage to the sample.

 (5) If the Director-General permits inspection of the seized goods,
or the removal of a sample, by the requestor in accordance with this
section, the Director‑General is not liable to the importer or exporter
for any loss or damage suffered by the importer or exporter arising
out of —

    (a) damage to any of the seized goods incurred during that
         inspection; or

    (b) anything done by the requestor or any other person to, or in
         relation to, a sample removed from the custody of the
         Director‑General or any use made by the requestor of such
         a sample.

                                                                                                     [34/2018]

Forfeiture of seized goods by consent

 87.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the importer or exporter (as the
case may be) may, by written notice and the giving of the prescribed
written undertakings to the Director‑General, consent to the seized
goods being forfeited to the Government.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     90

 (2) The notice must be given before any infringement action in
relation to the seized goods is instituted.

 (3) If the importer or exporter satisfies the requirements of
subsection (1), the seized goods are forfeited to the Government
and must be disposed of —

(a) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

(b) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the
     Director‑General directs.

                                                                                                 [34/2018]

Compulsory release of seized goods to importer or exporter

 88.—(1) The Director-General must release seized goods (not
being goods forfeited to the Government under section 87) to the
importer or exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible after the
expiration of the retention period for the goods if the requestor has
not, before the expiration of that period —

       (a) instituted an infringement action in relation to the goods;
            and

       (b) given written notice to the Director-General stating that the
            action has been instituted.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) If —

       (a) an infringement action has been instituted in relation to the
            seized goods; and

       (b) on the 22nd day after the day on which the action was
            instituted, there is not in force an order of the Court in
            which the action was instituted preventing the release of
            the goods,

the Director-General must release the goods to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible after the
firstmentioned day.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) If the requestor gives written notice to the Director‑General
stating that the requestor consents to the release of the seized goods,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
91  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

the Director‑General must release the goods to the importer or
exporter (as the case may be) as soon as possible.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (4) This section has effect subject to section 91.

Compensation for failure to take action

 89.—(1) Where goods have been seized pursuant to a notice given
under section 82 and the requestor concerned fails to take
infringement action within the retention period for the goods, a
person aggrieved by such seizure may apply to the Court for an order
of compensation against the requestor.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Where the Court is satisfied that the applicant had suffered loss
or damage as a result of the seizure of the goods, the Court may order
the requestor to pay compensation in such amount as the Court thinks
fit to the applicant.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Actions for infringement of registered trade mark

 90.—(1) The Court in which an infringement action is pending
may, on the application of a person having a sufficient interest in the
subject matter of the action, allow the person to be joined as a
defendant to the action.

 (2) An authorised officer is entitled to be heard on the hearing of an
infringement action.

 (3) In addition to any relief that may be granted apart from this
section, the Court may —

       (a) at any time, order that the seized goods be released to the
            importer or exporter (as the case may be) subject to such
            conditions (if any) as the Court thinks fit;

       (b) order that the seized goods not be released to the importer
            or exporter (as the case may be) before the end of a
            specified period; or

       (c) order that the seized goods be forfeited to the Government.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     92

 (4) A Court may not make an order under subsection (3)(a) if it is
satisfied that the Government or any statutory authority is required or
permitted under any other law to retain control of the seized goods.

 (5) The Director-General must comply with an order made under
subsection (3).

(6) If —

(a) the action is dismissed or discontinued, or if the Court
     decides that the relevant registered trade mark was not
     infringed by the use of a sign (within the meaning of
     section 27(4)) in relation to the seized goods; and

(b) a defendant to the infringement action satisfies the Court
     that the defendant has suffered loss or damage as a result of
     the seizure of the goods,

the Court may order the requestor to pay compensation in such
amount as the Court thinks fit to that defendant.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Retention of control of seized goods

 91. Despite section 88, in a case in which no order has been made
under section 90(3) in relation to seized goods, the Director‑General
is not obliged to release or dispose of the goods if the Government is
required or permitted, under any other law, to retain control of the
goods.

Disposal of seized goods

 92.—(1) If the Court orders that seized goods are to be forfeited to
the Government, the goods must be disposed of —

       (a) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

       (b) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the
            Director‑General directs.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) If —

       (a) the Director-General gives to the importer or exporter a
            written notice of the release of seized goods; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
93  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) the importer or exporter fails to take custody of the seized
         goods within the period specified in the notice,

the Director-General may dispose of the goods —

    (c) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

    (d) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the
         Director‑General directs.

                                                                                                     [34/2018]

Insufficient security

 93.—(1) If the reasonable expenses incurred by the
Director‑General in relation to any action taken by the
Director‑General under this Division, or taken in accordance with
an order of court under this Division exceed the amount deposited, or
the amount of the security given, under section 83, the amount of the
excess is a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) The debt created by subsection (1) is due by the requestor, or, if
there are 2 or more requestors, by the requestors jointly and severally.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

                Division 3 — Ex-officio seizure of goods

Seizure and inspection of counterfeit goods

 93A.—(1) Despite section 82(4), an authorised officer may —

       (a) examine any goods to which this subsection applies,
            including goods in transit; or

       (b) seize any goods to which this subsection applies —

               (i) that are imported into, or that are to be exported
                   from, Singapore; and

              (ii) that are not goods in transit, unless they are
                   consigned to a person with a commercial or
                   physical presence in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     94

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to goods that the authorised officer
reasonably suspects are counterfeit goods in relation to a registered
trade mark.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) As soon as practicable after the goods are seized under
subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General must give personally, by
post or (with the prior consent of the addressee) by email, a written
notice to —

(a) the importer, exporter or consignee (as the case may be) of
     the seized goods (called in this Division the dealer); and

      (b) the proprietor of the registered trade mark.             [34/2018]
(4) The written notice in subsection (3) must —

(a) identify the goods seized; and

       (b) set out the rights of the dealer in section 86 (as applied by
            subsection (5)), and the requirements in section 93B.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (5) Section 86 (which provides for the inspection of seized goods)
applies in relation to the seized goods as it applies in relation to goods
seized under section 82(4), with the following modifications:

(a) replace a reference to the requestor with a reference to the
     proprietor of the registered trade mark;

       (b) replace a reference to the importer or exporter with a
            reference to the dealer.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (6) At the Director‑General’s direction, seized goods must be taken
to a secure place the Director‑General directs by such of the following
as the Director‑General considers appropriate:

(a) the person in possession, custody or control of those goods
     immediately before the seizure;

(b) the proprietor of the registered trade mark (but only if the
     proprietor has satisfied section 93B(1)(a) and (b)).

                                                                                                 [34/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
95                Trade Marks Act 1998                       2020 Ed.

Requirements for continued detention

 93B.—(1) If the proprietor of the registered trade mark wants the
Director‑General to continue to detain the seized goods so that the
proprietor may institute an infringement action in relation to them,
the proprietor must, within the prescribed period after the date of the
notice in section 93A(3) —

    (a) give to the Director‑General a written notice of this in the
         form determined by the Director‑General, supported by
         such documents and information as the Director‑General
         may require, and accompanied by the fee prescribed under
         section 81B; and

    (b) either —

    (i) deposit with the Director-General a sum of money
        that, in the Director‑General’s opinion, is sufficient
        for the purpose mentioned in subsection (2); or

    (ii) give security to the Director-General’s satisfaction
         for such purpose,

       (b) unless the proprietor had earlier given such deposit or
            security to the Director‑General and the deposit had not
            been forfeited or returned or the security is still effective.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) The purpose in subsection (1) is the reimbursement to the
Government of —

    (a) any liability or reasonable expense it is likely to incur in
         relation to the seizure, storage and disposal of the goods;
         and

       (b) the payment of such compensation as the Court may order
            under section 93I or section 90(6) (as applied by
            section 93H).

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) If subsection (1) is not satisfied, the Director‑General must
release the seized goods to the dealer.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     96

 (4) The Minister may make rules that are necessary or convenient to
be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Division, and in
particular to provide —

(a) for the times at which, and the manner in which, notices are
     to be given;

(b) for the giving of information and evidence to the
     Director‑General; and

          (c) that the Director-General may release any seized goods to
              the dealer concerned because of non-compliance with any
              direction of the Director‑General or any such rule.

                                                                                                          [34/2018]

Notice to take action

 93C.—(1) If section 93B(1)(a) and (b) has been satisfied by the
proprietor of the registered trade mark, the Director‑General must, as
soon as practicable, give to the proprietor and the dealer personally,
by post or (with the prior consent of the addressee) by email, a written
notice that states that the goods will be released to the dealer unless —

       (a) an infringement action in relation to the goods is instituted
            by the proprietor within a prescribed period after the day
            specified in the notice; and

       (b) the proprietor gives written notice to the Director‑General
            within that period stating that such action has been
            instituted.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Section 85(4) to (7) applies in relation to a notice under
subsection (1) as it applies in relation to a notice under section 85(1),
as if a reference to the requestor is a reference to the proprietor of the
registered trade mark.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Persons bound to give information or produce documents

 93D.—(1) At any time after goods have been seized under
section 93A, an authorised officer or a senior authorised officer
who has reasonable cause to believe that a person has any information
or document that the officer considers is relevant for any of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
97  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

purposes in subsection (2), may require that person to provide to the
officer that information or document at a time and place specified by
the officer.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

    (a) to enable the Director-General to satisfy a request under
         section 93E (whether or not such a request has actually
         been received);

    (b) to enable any action to be taken under this Division or
         Division 2 in relation to future shipments of goods; and

      (c) for a statistical or research purpose.             [34/2018]
(3) A person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a
         requirement under subsection (1); or

    (b) in purported compliance with such requirement,
         knowingly or recklessly provides any information or
         document that is false or misleading in a material
         particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (4) A person is not excused from providing any information or
document in compliance with a requirement under subsection (1) on
the ground that it might tend to incriminate the person.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (5) Where the person claims, before providing any information or
document pursuant to a requirement under subsection (1), that it
might tend to incriminate the person, then the information or
document is not admissible in evidence against the person in
criminal proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under
subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     98

 (6) No information or document that is provided pursuant to a
requirement under subsection (1) may be published, or
communicated or disclosed to any person, except where and to the
extent it is necessary for a purpose in subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Information on import or export

 93E.—(1) After section 93B(1)(a) and (b) has been satisfied by the
proprietor of the registered trade mark, the Director‑General may,
upon the request of the proprietor, and if the Director‑General is
satisfied that the information is necessary to enable the proprietor to
institute an infringement action, give the proprietor the name and
contact details of any person connected with the import or proposed
export (as the case may be) of the seized goods.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Subsection (1) applies despite any duty of confidentiality
imposed by the common law on the Director‑General or a person
to whom the Director‑General has delegated the power under that
subsection.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Forfeiture of seized goods by consent

 93F.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the dealer may, by written
notice and the giving of the prescribed written undertakings to the
Director‑General, consent to the seized goods being forfeited to
the Government.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) The notice must be given before any infringement action in
relation to the goods is instituted.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) If the dealer satisfies the requirements of subsection (1), the
goods are forfeited to the Government and must be disposed of —

       (a) in the manner prescribed by rules made under this Act; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
99  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

    (b) if no manner of disposal is so prescribed, as the
         Director‑General directs.

                                                                                                     [34/2018]

Compulsory release of seized goods to dealer

 93G.—(1) The Director-General must release the seized goods (not
being goods forfeited to the Government under section 93F) to the
dealer as soon as possible after the date of expiry of the period
specified in the notice under section 93C(1) (including any extension
of that period under section 85(6) as applied by section 93C(2)), if the
proprietor of the registered trade mark has not, before that date —

       (a) instituted an infringement action in respect of the goods;
            and

       (b) given written notice to the Director‑General stating that the
            action has been instituted.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) If —

       (a) an infringement action has been instituted in respect of the
            seized goods; and

       (b) on the 22nd day after the day on which the action was
            instituted, there is not in force an order of the Court
            preventing the release of the goods,

the Director‑General must release the goods to the dealer as soon as
possible after the firstmentioned day.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (3) If the proprietor of the registered trade mark gives a written
notice to the Director‑General stating that the proprietor consents to
the release of the seized goods, the Director‑General must release the
goods to the dealer as soon as possible.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Provisions relating to infringement action

 93H. Section 90 applies in relation to an infringement action
concerning goods seized under section 93A, as it applies in relation to
an infringement action concerning goods seized under section 82(4),
with the following modifications:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     100

(a) replace a reference to the requestor with a reference to the
     proprietor of the registered trade mark;

(b) replace a reference to the importer or exporter with a
     reference to the dealer.

                                                                                                 [34/2018]

Compensation for failure to take action

 93I.—(1) Where —

       (a) goods have been seized under section 93A;

       (b) the goods continue to be detained because section 93B(1)
            has been satisfied; and

       (c) the proprietor fails to take infringement action within the
            period specified in section 93C(1) (including any
            extension of that period under section 85(6) as applied
            by section 93C(2)),

a person aggrieved by the seizure may apply to the Court for an order
of compensation against the proprietor.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Where the Court is satisfied that the applicant has suffered loss
or damage as a result of the seizure of the goods, the Court may order
the proprietor to pay to the applicant compensation of such amount as
the Court thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Retention of control of seized goods

 93J. Despite section 93G and any rule made under
section 93B(4)(c), in a case in which no order has been made
under section 90(3) (as applied by section 93H) in relation to the
seized goods, the Director‑General is not obliged to release or dispose
of the goods if the Government is required or permitted, under any
other law, to retain control of the goods.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Disposal of seized goods

 93K. Section 92 applies in relation to goods seized under
section 93A, as it applies in relation to goods seized under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
101  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

section 82(4), with a reference to the importer or exporter replaced
with a reference to the dealer.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Insufficient security

 93L.—(1) If the reasonable expenses incurred by the
Director‑General in relation to any action taken by the
Director‑General under this Division, or taken in accordance with
an order of the Court under this Division exceed the amount
deposited, or the amount of the security given, under section 93B, the
amount of the excess is a debt due to the Government.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) The debt created by subsection (1) is due by the proprietor or, if
there are 2 or more proprietors, by the proprietors jointly and
severally.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

     Division 4 — Powers of search

                                                              [34/2018]

Powers of search in relation to vessels, aircraft and vehicles

 94.—(1) A senior authorised officer or an authorised officer acting
in accordance with the general or special directions of a senior
authorised officer may board any conveyance in Singapore and may
rummage and search all parts of the conveyance for goods liable to be
seized under section 82 or 93A.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) For the more effective exercise of the powers conferred by this
section, a senior authorised officer may do all or any of the following:

       (a) require the master of any vessel in Singapore to heave to;

       (b) by direction to the master of any vessel or the pilot of any
            aircraft in Singapore, require the vessel or aircraft (as the
            case may be) not to proceed until so authorised;

       (c) require any documents which ought to be on board any
            vessel or aircraft, being documents relating to any goods
            therein, to be brought to the senior authorised officer for
            inspection;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     102

(d) break open and forcibly enter any place or receptacle in
     any conveyance to which the senior authorised officer
     cannot otherwise reasonably obtain access;

          (e) by direction to the master of any vessel in Singapore,
              require the vessel to proceed to any specified anchorage,
              wharf or place to which the vessel may lawfully go;

          (f) by direction to the master of any vessel in Singapore,
              require the master to move or discharge any cargo or other
              goods therein;

(g) require the person in charge of a vehicle —

          (i) to stop and not to proceed until so authorised; or

          (ii) to bring the vehicle to any police station or
               examination station;

(h) direct that the removal of any goods from or placed in any
     vessel be prohibited until so authorised;

          (i) require the master of any vessel or the pilot of any aircraft
              to produce a complete manifest of the whole cargo of the
              vessel or aircraft and a complete list of stores carried by
              that vessel or aircraft.

 (3) An authorised officer may exercise, in respect of any vehicle or
any vessel not exceeding 75 tons net tonnage, the powers which are
conferred upon a senior authorised officer by subsection (2) other
than the powers conferred by paragraph (d) of that subsection.

 (4) It is presumed in any proceedings arising out of any thing done
under this section, unless the contrary is proved, that any authorised
officer, not being a senior authorised officer, by whom the thing was
done was acting in accordance with the general or special direction of
a senior authorised officer.

 (5) If any vessel or aircraft fails to comply with any lawful
requisition or direction given or made under this section, a senior
authorised officer may take all such steps as appear to the senior
authorised officer necessary to secure such compliance.

 (6) Any person who contravenes this section or who fails to comply
with any lawful requisition or direction given or made under this

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
103  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (7) An authorised officer may exercise the powers conferred by this
section in respect of a vessel under way if the authorised officer
reasonably suspects that it is not in transit through Singapore.

Examination of packages, etc.

 95.—(1) Any goods, package, box, chest or other article which is
being or has recently been imported, or is being exported, and in
regard to which a reasonable suspicion exists that it is or that it
contains goods liable to be seized under section 82 or 93A may be —

       (a) examined and searched by an authorised officer or
            detained until any person in charge thereof has opened it
            for examination and search;

       (b) subjected to such infringement verification, or tests or
            analysis as the authorised officer thinks fit;

       (c) forcibly opened by, or by order of, a senior authorised
            officer to facilitate the examination and search except that
            any person in charge of the package, box, chest or other
            article must be afforded every reasonable facility for being
            present at the opening, examination and search; or

       (d) marked, locked, sealed or otherwise secured by an
            authorised officer pending examination and search.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Any person, other than an authorised officer, who removes,
opens, breaks or tampers with any mark, lock, seal or other means of
securing any goods, package, box, chest or other article referred to in
subsection (1)(d) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $6,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) In this section, “infringement verification” means any process
(whether or not involving the proprietor of the registered trade mark
concerned) to determine if any article is or contains goods liable to be
seized under section 82(4) or 93A.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     104

Power to remove packages and goods to police station or
examination station

 96.—(1) For the more convenient exercise of the powers conferred
by section 95, an authorised officer may remove any package, box,
chest or other article or any goods to a police station or examination
station or may require it to be so removed by the owner thereof or the
owner’s agent or any person having the custody, charge or control
thereof.

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any such requisition shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $6,000.

 (3) Upon the failure by a person to comply with such a requisition,
an authorised officer may remove the package, box, chest, article or
goods (as the case may be) in the manner provided by subsection (1)
and all the expenses of such removal (as certified by a senior
authorised officer) are recoverable as a fine from that person or from
the owner of the package, box, chest, article or goods (as the case may
be).

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

Search of persons and baggage

 97.—(1) Any person landing or being about to land or having
recently landed from any vessel or aircraft, or leaving any vessel or
aircraft in Singapore whether for the purpose of landing or otherwise,
or entering or having recently entered Singapore by land, sea or air,
must —

       (a) on demand by an authorised officer, either permit his or her
            person and goods and baggage to be searched by the officer
            for any goods liable to be seized under section 82 or 93A
            or, together with the goods and baggage, accompany the
            officer to a police station or an examination station, and
            there permit his or her person and goods and baggage to be
            searched in the presence and under the supervision of a
            senior authorised officer for any goods liable to be seized
            under section 82 or 93A; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
105  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

       (b) on demand by a senior authorised officer, permit his or her
            person and goods and baggage to be searched by the
            officer, or in the presence and under the supervision of the
            officer, for any goods liable to be seized under section 82
            or 93A.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) Whenever it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched, the
search must be made by another woman and with strict regard to
decency.

 (3) The goods and baggage of any person who requests to be
present when they are searched must not be searched except in his or
her presence, unless he or she fails to be present after being given
reasonable facility for being present.

 (4) Any person who refuses to comply with any lawful demand
made under this section may be arrested without warrant by the
officer making the demand.

Powers of authorised officers to enter certain premises

 98.—(1) For the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by
sections 94 to 97, an authorised officer may, without warrant, enter
upon —

       (a) any islet, landing place, wharf, dock, railway or quay;

       (b) any premises of a provider of port services or facilities
            licensed or exempted under the Maritime and Port
            Authority of Singapore Act 1996; or

       (c) any premises of any airport operated under a licence or
            exemption under the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
            Act 2009.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

 (2) In this section, “railway” has the meaning given by the
Railways Act 1905.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

     Division 5 — Miscellaneous provisions

                                                              [34/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.     Trade Marks Act 1998                                  106

Obstruction

99. Any person who —

(a) refuses any authorised officer or senior authorised officer
     access to any vessel, aircraft, vehicle or place which the
     officer is entitled to under this Part; or

(b) obstructs or hinders any authorised officer or senior
     authorised officer in the execution of any power
     conferred upon that officer by this Part,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $15,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Protection from personal liability

 100. No liability shall lie personally against the Director-General,
an authorised officer, a senior authorised officer, or any person acting
under the direction of the Director-General for anything done or
omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the
course of or in connection with —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Part;

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or the discharge or purported discharge of any duty under
            this Part; or

       (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Part.

                                                                                                           [34/2018]

                                    PART 11

        MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS

Registration to be prima facie evidence

 101. In all legal proceedings relating to a registered trade mark or
any right thereunder (including proceedings for rectification of the
register) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
107  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     (a) the register is prima facie evidence of anything contained
          therein;

     (b) the registration of the prescribed particulars of any
          registrable transaction under section 39 is prima facie
          evidence of the transaction; and

     (c) the registration of a person as proprietor of a registered
         trade mark is prima facie evidence of —

     (i) the validity of the original registration; and

     (ii) any subsequent assignment or other transmission of
          the registration.

Certificate of validity of contested registration

 102.—(1) If in any proceedings before the Registrar or the Court
the validity of the registration of a trade mark to any extent is
contested and it is found by the Registrar or the Court that the
registration of the trade mark is wholly or partially valid, the
Registrar or the Court may give a certificate to that effect and the fact
that the validity of the registration was so contested.

                                                                                                           [23/2019]

 (2) Where a certificate is given under subsection (1) and in
subsequent proceedings before the Registrar or the Court —

       (a) the validity of the registration is again questioned; and

       (b) the proprietor obtains a final order or judgment in the
            proprietor’s favour relying on the validity of the
            registration as found in the earlier proceedings,

the proprietor is entitled to the proprietor’s costs as between solicitor
and client unless the Registrar or the Court directs otherwise.

                                                                                                           [23/2019]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not extend to the costs of an appeal in any
such proceedings.

Certificate of Registrar

 103. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar
as to any entry, matter or thing which the Registrar is authorised to
make or do under this Act, is prima facie evidence of the entry having

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.     Trade Marks Act 1998                                  108

been made, and of the contents thereof, and of the matter or thing
having been done or not done.

Costs of proceedings before Court

 104. In all proceedings before the Court under this Act, the Court
may award to any party (including the Registrar) such costs as it may
consider reasonable, but the Registrar is not to be ordered to pay the
costs of any other of the parties.

Burden of proving use of trade mark

 105. If in any civil proceedings under this Act a question arises as to
the use to which a registered trade mark has been put, it is for the
proprietor to show what use has been made of it.

Composition of offences

 105A.—(1) The Registrar or any person authorised in writing by
the Registrar may compound any offence under this Act that is
prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a person
reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum not
exceeding the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $5,000.

                                   [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

 (2) The Office may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

 (3) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2019 wef 10/06/2022]

Jurisdiction of Courts

 106. A District Court or a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to
hear and determine all offences under this Act and, despite anything

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
109  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, has power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any such offence.

Offence committed by partnership or body corporate

 107.—(1) Proceedings for an offence under this Act alleged to have
been committed by a partnership must be brought against the
partnership in the name of the firm and not in that of the partners; but
without affecting any liability of the partners under subsection (3).

 (2) A fine imposed on a partnership on its conviction in such
proceedings must be paid out of the partnership assets.

 (3) Where a partnership is guilty of an offence under this Act, every
partner, other than a partner who is proved to have been ignorant of or
to have attempted to prevent the commission of the offence, is also
guilty of the offence and liable to be proceeded against and punished
accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body corporate
is proved to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a
director, manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body, or a
person purporting to act in any such capacity, he or she as well as the
body corporate is guilty of the offence and liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.

Power to make rules

 108.—(1) The Minister may make rules —

       (a) for any purpose for which rules are authorised or required
            to be made under this Act;

       (b) for prescribing matters authorised or required by this Act to
            be prescribed;

       (c) for prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be
            prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act;

       (d) for prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be
            prescribed for the conduct of any proceedings or other
            matter before the Registrar.

                                                                                                             [3/2007]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     110

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the rules may make
provision —

(a) as to the practice and procedure of any proceedings or
     other matter before the Registrar;

(b) as to the manner of filing of applications or other
     documents;

          (c) requiring persons to make such statutory declarations as
              may be prescribed in support of any application, notice or
              request;

(d) requiring and regulating the translation of documents and
     the filing and authentication of any translation;

          (e) as to the service of documents;

(ea) to enable the Registrar to publish —

          (i) an application to rectify an error or omission in the
              register; and

          (ii) a request to amend an application, a notice or other
               document,

(ea) and to provide for the making of objections to the
      rectification or amendment by a person claiming to be
      affected by it;

                                                                        [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

  (f) authorising the rectification of irregularities of procedure;

(g) prescribing time limits for anything required to be done in
     connection with any proceedings under this Act;

(h) for the extension of any time limit which has been
     prescribed, or which the Registrar has specified, and
     which has not expired;

          (i) as to the giving of evidence in proceedings before the
              Registrar under this Act by affidavit or statutory
              declaration;

                                                                               [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
111  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     (ia) for the continued processing of an application that is
          treated as withdrawn; and

                                                                            [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

      (j) for the reinstatement of —

     (i) [Deleted by Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

     (ii) any right which has been abrogated, or thing which
          has ceased to be in force or to exist, by reason of a
          failure to comply with any time limit which has been
          prescribed or which the Registrar has specified,

     (j) and the conditions for such reinstatement.

                                                                                          [42/2005; 3/2007]

Transitional provisions

 109.—(1) The provisions of the Third Schedule have effect with
respect to transitional matters on 15 January 1999.

 (2) [Deleted by Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 60(2)

                                  COLLECTIVE MARKS

                                            General

 1.—(1) The provisions of this Act apply to collective marks subject to the
following provisions.

 (2) For the purposes of this Schedule, “published” means made available to the
public (whether in Singapore or elsewhere), and a document is taken to be
published if it can be inspected as of right at any place in Singapore by members of
the public, whether on payment of a fee or not.

                     Signs of which a collective mark may consist

 2. In relation to a collective mark, the reference in the definition of “trade mark”
in section 2(1) to distinguishing goods or services dealt with or provided in the
course of trade by a person from those so dealt with or provided by any other
person is to be construed as a reference to distinguishing goods or services dealt
with or provided in the course of trade by members of an association which is the
proprietor of the mark from those so dealt with or provided by persons who are not
members of the association.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     112

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          Indication of geographical origin

 3.—(1) Despite section 7(1)(c), a collective mark may be registered which
consists of signs or indications which may serve, in trade, to designate the
geographical origin of the goods or services.

 (2) However, the proprietor of such a mark is not entitled to prohibit the use of
the signs or indications in accordance with honest practices in industrial or
commercial matters (in particular, by a person who is entitled to use a
geographical name).

             Mark not to be misleading as to character or significance

 4.—(1) A collective mark must not be registered if the public is liable to be
misled as regards the character or significance of the mark, in particular if it is
likely to be taken to be something other than a collective mark.

 (2) The Registrar may accordingly require that a mark in respect of which
application is made for registration include some indication that it is a collective
mark.

 (3) Despite section 14(3), an application may be amended so as to comply with
any such requirement.

                     Regulations governing use of collective mark

 5.—(1) An applicant for registration of a collective mark must file with the
Registrar regulations governing the use of the mark.

 (2) The regulations must specify the persons authorised to use the mark, the
conditions of membership of the association and, where they exist, the conditions
of use of the mark, including any sanctions against misuse.

 (3) Further requirements with which the regulations have to comply may be
imposed by rules made under this Act.

                          Approval of regulations by Registrar

 6.—(1) A collective mark must not be registered unless the regulations
governing the use of the mark —

        (a) comply with paragraph 5(2) and any further requirements imposed by
             rules; and

        (b) are not contrary to public policy or to accepted principles of morality.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
113  Trade Marks Act 1998                                           2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) Before the end of the prescribed period after the date of the application for
registration of a collective mark, the applicant must file the regulations with the
Registrar and pay the prescribed fee.

 (3) If the applicant does not comply with sub‑paragraph (2), the application is to
be treated as withdrawn.

 7.—(1) The Registrar must consider whether the requirements mentioned in
paragraph 6(1) are met.

 (2) If it appears to the Registrar that those requirements are not met, he or she
must inform the applicant and give the applicant an opportunity, within such
period as the Registrar may specify, to make representations or to file amended
regulations.

 (3) If the applicant responds within the specified period but fails to satisfy the
Registrar that those requirements are met, or to file regulations that have been
amended so as to meet those requirements, the Registrar may refuse the
application.

 (4) If the applicant fails to respond within the specified period, the application is
to be treated as withdrawn.

(5) If it appears to the Registrar that —

     (a) the requirements mentioned in paragraph 6(1) are met; and

     (b) the other requirements for registration in relation to all or some of the
          goods or services for which registration is sought are met,

the Registrar must accept the application in relation to the goods or services for
which the requirements for registration are met and must proceed in accordance
with section 13.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 8. The regulations must be published and notice of opposition may be given
relating to the matters mentioned in paragraph 6(1), in addition to any other
grounds on which the application may be opposed.

                          Regulations to be open to inspection

 9. The regulations governing the use of a registered collective mark must be
open to public inspection in the same way as the register.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     114

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          Amendment of regulations

 10.—(1) An amendment of the regulations governing the use of a registered
collective mark is not effective unless and until the amended regulations are filed
with the Registrar and accepted by him or her.

 (2) Before accepting any amended regulations the Registrar may, in any case
where it appears to him or her expedient to do so, cause them to be published.

 (3) If the Registrar does so, notice of opposition may be given relating to the
matters mentioned in paragraph 6(1).

                        Infringement: rights of authorised users

 11. The following provisions apply in relation to an authorised user of a
registered collective mark as in relation to a licensee of a trade mark:

        (a) section 27(5);

        (b) section 82.

 12.—(1) The following provisions (which correspond to the provisions of
section 44) have effect as regards the rights of an authorised user in relation to
infringement of a registered collective mark.

 (2) An authorised user is entitled, subject to any agreement to the contrary
between the authorised user and the proprietor, to call on the proprietor to take
infringement proceedings in respect of any matter which affects the authorised
user’s interests.

 (3) If the proprietor —

        (a) refuses to do so; or

        (b) fails to do so within 2 months after being called upon,

the authorised user may bring the proceedings in the authorised user’s own name
as if the authorised user were the proprietor.

 (4) Where infringement proceedings are brought by virtue of this paragraph, the
authorised user may not, without the permission of the Court, proceed with the
action unless the proprietor is either joined as a claimant or added as a defendant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) Sub-paragraph (4) does not affect the granting of interlocutory relief on an
application by an authorised user alone.

 (6) A proprietor who is added as a defendant as mentioned in sub‑paragraph (4)
is not to be made liable for any costs in the action unless the proprietor takes part in
the proceedings.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
115  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

 (7) In infringement proceedings brought by the proprietor of a registered
collective mark, any loss suffered or likely to be suffered by authorised users must
be taken into account; and the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit as to
the extent to which the claimant is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary remedy
on behalf of such users.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                         Grounds for revocation of registration

 13. Apart from the grounds of revocation provided for in section 22, the
registration of a collective mark may be revoked on the ground —

        (a) that the manner in which the mark has been used by the proprietor has
             caused it to become liable to mislead the public in the manner referred
             to in paragraph 4(1); or

        (b) that the proprietor has failed to observe, or to secure the observance of,
             the regulations governing the use of the mark; or

        (c) that an amendment of the regulations has been made so that the
             regulations —

                  (i) no longer comply with paragraph 5(2) and any further
                      conditions imposed by rules; or

                 (ii) are contrary to public policy or morality.

                          Grounds for invalidity of registration

 14. Apart from the grounds of invalidity provided for in section 23, the
registration of a collective mark may be declared invalid on the ground that the
mark was registered in breach of the provisions of paragraph 4(1) or 6(1).

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 61(2)

                                CERTIFICATION MARKS
                                            General

 1.—(1) The provisions of this Act apply to certification marks subject to the
provisions of this Schedule.

 (2) For the purposes of this Schedule, “published” means made available to the
public (whether in Singapore or elsewhere), and a document is taken to be

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     116

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

published if it can be inspected as of right at any place in Singapore by members of
the public, whether on payment of a fee or not.

                   Signs of which a certification mark may consist

 2. In relation to a certification mark, the reference in the definition of “trade
mark” in section 2(1) to distinguishing goods or services dealt with or provided in
the course of trade by a person from those so dealt with or provided by any other
person is to be construed as a reference to distinguishing goods or services dealt
with or provided in the course of trade and which are certified in the manner
referred to in section 61(1)(b) from those which are not so certified.

                            Indication of geographical origin

 3.—(1) Despite section 7(1)(c), a certification mark may be registered which
consists of signs or indications which may serve, in trade, to designate the
geographical origin of the goods or services.

 (2) However, the proprietor of such a mark is not entitled to prohibit the use of
the signs or indications in accordance with honest practices in industrial or
commercial matters (in particular, by a person who is entitled to use a
geographical name).

                              Nature of proprietor’s business

 4. A certification mark must not be registered if the proprietor carries on a
business involving the supply of goods or services of the kind certified.

             Mark not to be misleading as to character or significance

 5.—(1) A certification mark must not be registered if the public is liable to be
misled as regards the character or significance of the mark, in particular if it is
likely to be taken to be something other than a certification mark.

 (2) The Registrar may accordingly require that a mark in respect of which
application is made for registration include some indication that it is a certification
mark.

 (3) Despite section 14(3), an application may be amended so as to comply with
any such requirement.

                   Regulations governing use of certification mark

 6.—(1) An applicant for registration of a certification mark must file with the
Registrar regulations governing the use of the mark.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
117  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) The regulations must indicate who is authorised to use the mark, the
characteristics to be certified by the mark, how the certifying body is to test those
characteristics and to supervise the use of the mark, the fees (if any) to be paid in
connection with the operation of the mark and the procedures for resolving
disputes.

 (3) Further requirements with which the regulations have to comply may be
imposed by rules made under this Act.

                               Approval of regulations, etc.

 7.—(1) A certification mark must not be registered unless —

        (a) the regulations governing the use of the mark —

                  (i) comply with paragraph 6(2) and any further requirements
                      imposed by rules; and

                 (ii) are not contrary to public policy or to accepted principles of
                      morality; and

        (b) the applicant is competent to certify the goods or services for which the
             mark is to be registered.

 (2) Before the end of the prescribed period after the date of the application for
registration of a certification mark, the applicant must file the regulations with the
Registrar and pay the prescribed fee.

 (3) If the applicant does not comply with sub‑paragraph (2), the application is to
be treated as withdrawn.

 8.—(1) The Registrar must consider whether the requirements mentioned in
paragraph 7(1) are met.

 (2) If it appears to the Registrar that those requirements are not met, he or she
must inform the applicant and give the applicant an opportunity, within such
period as the Registrar may specify, to make representations or to file amended
regulations.

 (3) If the applicant responds within the specified period but fails to satisfy the
Registrar that those requirements are met, or to file regulations that have been
amended so as to meet those requirements, the Registrar may refuse the
application.

 (4) If the applicant fails to respond within the specified period, the application is
to be treated as withdrawn.

 (5) If it appears to the Registrar that —

        (a) the requirements mentioned in paragraph 7(1) are met; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     118

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

(b) the other requirements for registration in relation to all or some of the
     goods or services for which registration is sought are met,

the Registrar must accept the application in relation to the goods or services for
which the requirements for registration are met and must proceed in accordance
with section 13.

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2022 wef 26/05/2022]

 9. The regulations must be published and notice of opposition may be given
relating to the matters mentioned in paragraph 7(1), in addition to any other
grounds on which the application may be opposed.

                          Regulations to be open to inspection

 10. The regulations governing the use of a registered certification mark must be
open to public inspection in the same way as the register.

                                 Amendment of regulations

 11.—(1) An amendment of the regulations governing the use of a registered
certification mark is not effective unless and until the amended regulations are
filed with the Registrar and accepted by him or her.

 (2) Before accepting any amended regulations, the Registrar may, in any case
where it appears to him or her expedient to do so, cause them to be published.

 (3) If the Registrar causes the regulations to be published, notice of opposition
may be given relating to the matters mentioned in paragraph 7(1).

               Consent to assignment of registered certification mark

 12. The assignment or other transmission of a registered certification mark is not
effective without the consent of the Registrar.

                        Infringement: rights of authorised users

 13. The following provisions apply in relation to an authorised user of a
registered certification mark as in relation to a licensee of a trade mark —

        (a) section 27(5);

        (b) section 82.

 14. In infringement proceedings brought by the proprietor of a registered
certification mark, any loss suffered or likely to be suffered by authorised users
must be taken into account; and the Court may give such directions as it thinks fit

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
119  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

as to the extent to which the claimant is to hold the proceeds of any pecuniary
remedy on behalf of such users.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                         Grounds for revocation of registration

 15. Apart from the grounds of revocation provided for in section 22, the
registration of a certification mark may be revoked on the ground —

        (a) that the proprietor has begun to carry on such a business as is
             mentioned in paragraph 4;

        (b) that the manner in which the mark has been used by the proprietor has
             caused it to become liable to mislead the public in the manner referred
             to in paragraph 5(1);

        (c) that the proprietor has failed to observe, or to secure the observance of,
             the regulations governing the use of the mark;

        (d) that an amendment of the regulations has been made so that the
             regulations —

                  (i) no longer comply with paragraph 6(2) and any further
                      conditions imposed by rules; or

                 (ii) are contrary to public policy or morality; or

        (e) that the proprietor is no longer competent to certify the goods or
             services for which the mark is registered.

                          Grounds for invalidity of registration

 16. Apart from the grounds of invalidity provided for in section 23, the
registration of a certification mark may be declared invalid on the ground that the
mark was registered in breach of the provisions of paragraph 4, 5(1) or 7(1).

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     120

          THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                           Sections 2(1) and 109

                           TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
                                        Introductory

1.—(1) In this Schedule, unless the context otherwise requires —

“existing registered mark” means a trade mark or certification trade mark
   registered under the Trade Marks Act (Cap. 332, 1992 Revised Edition)
   immediately before 15 January 1999;

“the old law” means the repealed Act and any other enactment or rule of law
   applying to existing registered marks immediately before 15 January
   1999.

(2) For the purposes of this Schedule —

       (a) an application is to be treated as pending on 15 January 1999 if it was
            made but not finally determined before that date; and

       (b) the date on which it was made is the date of filing under the repealed
            Act.

                                 Existing registered marks

 2.—(1) Any existing registered mark, whether registered in Part A or B of the
register kept under the repealed Act, is a registered trade mark for the purposes of
this Act.

 (2) Any existing registered mark registered as a certification trade mark in the
register kept under the repealed Act is a registered certification mark for the
purposes of this Act.

 (3) Any existing registered mark registered as a series of trade marks in the
register kept under the repealed Act is similarly registered in the new register for
the purposes of this Act.

 (4) In any other case, any note indicating that an existing registered mark is
associated with any other mark ceases to have effect on 15 January 1999.

 3.—(1) A condition entered in the register kept under the repealed Act in
relation to an existing registered mark immediately before 15 January 1999 ceases
to have effect on that date.

 (2) Proceedings under section 39(3) of the repealed Act which are pending on
15 January 1999 must be dealt with under the old law and any necessary alteration
made to the new register.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
121  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (3) A disclaimer or limitation entered in the register kept under the repealed Act
in relation to an existing registered mark immediately before 15 January 1999 is
deemed to be transferred to the new register and has effect as if entered in the
register pursuant to section 30 of this Act.

                           Effects of registration: infringement

 4.—(1) Sections 26 to 29 of this Act apply in relation to an existing registered
mark as from 15 January 1999 and section 31 of this Act applies in relation to
infringement of an existing registered mark committed after that date, subject to
sub‑paragraph (3).

 (2) The old law continues to apply in relation to infringements committed before
15 January 1999.

 (3) It is not an infringement of —

        (a) an existing registered mark; or

        (b) a registered trade mark of which the distinctive elements are the same
             or substantially the same as those of an existing registered mark and
             which is registered for the same goods or services,

to continue after commencement any use which did not amount to infringement of
the existing registered mark under the old law.

                          Infringing goods, material or articles

 5. Section 33 of this Act applies to infringing goods, material or articles whether
made before or after 15 January 1999.

                 Rights and remedies of licensee or authorised user

 6.—(1) Section 44 of this Act applies to licences granted before 15 January
1999, but only in relation to infringements committed after that date.

 (2) Paragraph 14 of the Second Schedule of this Act applies only in relation to
infringements committed after 15 January 1999.

                            Co-ownership of registered mark

 7.—(1) Subject to sub‑paragraph (2), the provisions of section 37 of this Act
apply as from 15 January 1999 to an existing registered mark of which 2 or more
persons were immediately before that date registered as joint proprietors.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     122

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) So long as the relations between the joint proprietors remain such as are
described in section 12(11) of the repealed Act, there is to be taken to be an
agreement to exclude the operation of section 37(1) and (3) of this Act.

                           Assignment, etc., of registered mark

 8.—(1) Section 38 of this Act applies to transactions and events occurring after
15 January 1999 in relation to an existing registered mark; and the old law
continues to apply in relation to transactions and events occurring before that date.

 (2) Entries in the register kept under the repealed Act relating to the assignment
of registered trade marks and of the benefits of applications for registration of
trade marks are deemed to be transferred on 15 January 1999 to the register kept
under this Act and have effect as if made under section 39 of this Act.

 (3) Provision may be made by rules for putting entries mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (2) in the same form as is required for entries made under this Act.

 (4) An application for registration of an assignment of a registered trade mark or
of an assignment of the benefits of an application for registration of a trade mark,
made to the Registrar before 15 January 1999, is to be treated as an application for
registration under section 39 of this Act and must proceed accordingly.

 (5) The Registrar may require the applicant to amend the applicant’s application
so as to conform with the requirements of this Act.

 (6) An application for registration under section 43 of the repealed Act which
has been determined by the Registrar but not finally determined before 15 January
1999 must be dealt with under the old law; and sub‑paragraphs (2) and (3) apply in
relation to any resulting entry in the register.

 (7) Where before 15 January 1999 a person has become entitled by assignment
or transmission to an existing registered mark but has not registered the person’s
title, any application for registration after that date must be made under section 39
of this Act.

 (8) In cases to which sub‑paragraph (4) or (7) applies, section 43(2) of the
repealed Act continues to apply (and section 39(3) and (4) of this Act do not apply)
as regards the consequences of failing to register.

                               Licensing of registered mark

 9.—(1) Sections 42 and 43(2) of this Act apply only in relation to licences
granted after 15 January 1999; and the old law continues to apply in relation to
licences granted before that date.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
123  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) Existing entries under section 30 of the repealed Act are deemed transferred
on 15 January 1999 to the register kept under this Act and have effect as if made
under section 39 of this Act.

 (3) Provision may be made by rules for putting entries mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (2) in the same form as is required for entries made under this Act.

 (4) An application for registration as a registered user which is pending before
the Registrar on 15 January 1999 is to be treated as an application for registration
of a licence under section 39(1) of this Act and must proceed accordingly.

 (5) The Registrar may require the applicant to amend the applicant’s application
so as to conform with the requirements of this Act.

 (6) An application for registration as a registered user which has been
determined by the Registrar but not finally determined before 15 January 1999
must be dealt with under the old law; and sub‑paragraphs (2) and (3) apply in
relation to any resulting entry in the register.

 (7) Any proceedings pending on 15 January 1999 under section 30(9) or (10) of
the repealed Act must be dealt with under the old law and any necessary alteration
made to the new register.

                          Pending applications for registration

 10.—(1) Subject to paragraph 11, an application for registration of a mark under
the old law which is pending on 15 January 1999 must be dealt with under the old
law, and if registered the mark is to be treated for the purposes of this Schedule as
an existing registered mark.

 (2) The power of the Minister under section 108 of this Act to make rules
regulating practice and procedure, and as to the matters mentioned in
subsection (2) of that section, is exercisable in relation to such an application;
and different provision may be made for such applications from that made for
other applications.

 (3) Section 26 of the repealed Act must be disregarded in dealing after
15 January 1999 with an application for registration.

 (4) Subject to sub‑paragraph (6), a mark must not be registered under this
paragraph if it contains or consists of a geographical indication in respect of a wine
or spirit and the mark is used or intended to be used in relation to a wine or spirit
not originating from the geographical origin indicated by the geographical
indication.

 (5) Sub-paragraph (4) applies whether or not the mark has, or is accompanied
by, an indication of the true geographical origin of the wine or spirit (as the case

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.                   Trade Marks Act 1998                    124

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

may be) or an expression such as “kind”, “type”, “style”, “imitation” or the like,
and irrespective of the language the geographical indication is expressed in that
trade mark.

 (6) A mark must not be refused registration by virtue of sub‑paragraph (4) if the
application had been made in good faith, or if it had been used continuously in
good faith in the course of trade by the applicant for its registration or the
applicant’s predecessor in title, either —

(a) before 15 January 1999; or

(b) before the geographical indication concerned is protected in its country
     of origin.

 (7) A mark must not be refused registration by virtue of sub‑paragraph (4) if the
geographical indication in question —

(a) has ceased to be protected; or

(b) has fallen into disuse,

in its country of origin.

                           Conversion of pending application

 11.—(1) In the case of a pending application for registration which has not been
advertised under section 18 of the repealed Act before 15 January 1999, the
applicant may give notice to the Registrar claiming to have the registrability of the
mark determined in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

 (2) The notice must be in the relevant form published by the Registrar under
section 76 of this Act, be accompanied by the appropriate fee and be given no later
than 6 months after 15 January 1999.

 (3) Notice duly given is irrevocable and has the effect that the application is to
be treated as if made immediately after 15 January 1999.

                      Claim to priority from overseas application

 12. Section 10 of this Act applies to an application for registration under this
Act made after 15 January 1999 even though the Convention application was
made before that date.

 13.—(1) Where, before 15 January 1999, a person has duly filed an application
for protection of a trade mark in a foreign state to which section 75 of the repealed
Act applies which is not a Convention country (called in this paragraph a relevant
overseas application), the person, or the person’s successor in title, has a right to
priority, for the purposes of registering the same trade mark under this Act for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
125  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

some or all of the same goods or services, for a period of 6 months from the date of
filing of the relevant overseas application.

 (2) If the application for registration under this Act is made within that 6 month
period —

     (a) the relevant date for the purposes of establishing which rights take
          precedence is the date of filing of the relevant overseas application;
          and

     (b) the registrability of the trade mark is not affected by any use of the
          mark in Singapore in the period between that date and the date of the
          application under this Act.

 (3) Any filing which in a foreign state mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) is
equivalent to a regular national filing, under its domestic legislation or an
international agreement, is deemed to give rise to the right of priority.

 (4) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (3), a “regular national filing” means a
filing which is adequate to establish the date on which the application was filed in
that country, whatever may be the subsequent fate of the application.

 (5) A subsequent application concerning the same subject as the relevant
overseas application, filed in the same country, is to be considered the relevant
overseas application (of which the filing date is the starting date of the period of
priority), if at the time of the subsequent application —

     (a) the previous application has been withdrawn, abandoned or refused,
          without having been laid open to public inspection and without leaving
          any rights outstanding; and

     (b) it has not yet served as a basis for claiming a right of priority,

and the previous application may not thereafter serve as a basis for claiming a right
of priority.

 (6) The Minister may make rules to provide for the manner of claiming a right to
priority on the basis of a relevant overseas application.

 (7) A right to priority arising as a result of a relevant overseas application may
be assigned or otherwise transmitted, either with the application or independently,
and the reference in sub‑paragraph (1) to the applicant’s “successor in title” is to
be construed accordingly.

 (8) Nothing in this paragraph affects proceedings on an application for
registration under the repealed Act made before 15 January 1999.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
2020 Ed.  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     126

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

          Renewal of registration

 14. Section 19 of this Act applies where the renewal of an existing registered
mark falls due on or after 15 January 1999; and the old law continues to apply in
any other case.

                Pending application for alteration of registered mark

 15. An application under section 38 of the repealed Act which is pending on
15 January 1999 must be dealt with under the old law and any necessary alteration
made to the new register.

                                  Revocation for non-use

 16.—(1) An application under section 40 of the repealed Act which is pending
on 15 January 1999 must be dealt with under the old law and any necessary
alteration made to the new register.

 (2) An application under section 22(1)(a) or (b) of this Act may be made in
relation to an existing registered mark at any time after 15 January 1999.

 (3) However, no application mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2) for the revocation
of the registration of an existing registered mark registered by virtue of section 41
of the repealed Act may be made until more than 5 years after 15 January 1999.

                             Application for rectification, etc.

 17.—(1) An application under section 37 or 39 of the repealed Act which is
pending on 15 January 1999 must be dealt with under the old law and any
necessary alteration made to the new register.

 (2) For the purposes of proceedings under section 23 of this Act as it applies in
relation to an existing registered mark, the provisions of this Act are deemed to
have been in force at all material times, except that no objection to the validity of
the registration of an existing registered mark may be taken on the ground
specified in section 8(3) of this Act.

                   Regulations governing use of certification mark

 18.—(1) Regulations governing the use of an existing registered certification
mark transmitted to the Registrar pursuant to section 68 of the repealed Act are to
be treated after 15 January 1999 as if filed under paragraph 6 of the
Second Schedule to this Act.

 (2) Any request for amendment of the regulations which was pending on
15 January 1999 must be dealt with under the old law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
127  Trade Marks Act 1998                                     2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

     Certificate of validity of contested registration

 19. A certificate given before 15 January 1999 under section 54 of the repealed
Act has effect as if given under section 102 of this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
TRADE MARKS ACT 1998

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 46 of 1998 — Trade Marks Act 1998

Date of First Reading     : 12 October 1998
                                (Bill No. 42/1998 published on
                                13 October 1998)

Date of Second and Third  : 26 November 1998
Readings

Date of commencement      : 15 January 1999 (except section 54)
                                31 October 2000 (section 54)

2. 1999 Revised Edition — Trade Marks Act
   (G.N. No. S 2/2000 — Rectification Order)

Date of operation         : 30 December 1999

3. Act 28 of 2000 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments and Repeal) Act
                          2000

Date of First Reading     : 25 August 2000
                                (Bill No. 22/2000 published on
                                26 August 2000)

Date of Second and Third  : 9 October 2000
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 November 2000

4. Act 3 of 2001 — Intellectual Property of Singapore Act 2001

Date of First Reading     : 12 January 2001
                                (Bill No. 1/2001 published on
                                13 January 2001)

Date of Second and Third  : 22 February 2001
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2001

5. Act 4 of 2003 — Customs (Amendment) Act 2003

Date of First Reading     : 10 March 2003
                                (Bill No. 6/2003 published on
                                11 March 2003)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                          ii

Date of Second and Third  : 21 March 2003
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2003

6. Act 20 of 2004 — Trade Marks (Amendment) Act 2004

Date of First Reading     : 19 May 2005
                                (Bill No. 18/2004 published on
                                20 May 2004)

Date of Second and Third  : 15 June 2004
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2004

7. 2005 Revised Edition — Trade Marks Act

Date of operation         : 31 July 2005

8. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005

Date of First Reading     : 17 October 2005
                                (Bill No. 30/2005 published on
                                18 October 2005)

Date of Second and Third  : 21 November 2005
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 January 2006

9. Act 3 of 2007 — Trade Marks (Amendment) Act 2007

Date of First Reading     : 8 November 2006
                                (Bill No. 15/2006 published on
                                9 November 2006)

Date of Second and Third  : 22 January 2007
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 July 2007

10. Act 16 of 2012 — Intellectual Property (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                           2012

Date of First Reading     : 14 May 2012
                                (Bill No. 14/2012 published on
                                14 May 2012)

Date of Second and Third  : 10 July 2012
Readings

Date of commencement      : 7 March 2014
                                13 November 2014

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                          iii

11. Act 4 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2014

Date of First Reading     : 11 November 2013
                                (Bill No. 25/2013 published on
                                11 November 2013)

Date of Second and Third  : 21 January 2014
Readings

Date of commencement      : 10 March 2014 (except
                                sections 7(1)(c) and (d), 8(c) and (d)
                                and 13(a) and (b))
                                30 April 2014 (sections 7(1)(c) and
                                (d), 8(c) and (d) and 13(a) and (b))

12. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016

Bill                      : 15/2016

First Reading             : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement              : 10 June 2016

13. Act 19 of 2014 — Geographical Indications Act 2014

Bill                      : 13/2014

First Reading             : 5 March 2014

Second and Third Readings : 14 April 2014

Commencement              : 1 April 2019

14. Act 34 of 2018 — Intellectual Property (Border Enforcement) Act 2018

Bill                      : 24/2018

First Reading             : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement              : 10 October 2018
                                21 November 2019

15. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
                          iv

16. 2020 Revised Edition — Trade Marks Act 1998

Operation                 : 31 December 2021

17. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by)

Bill                      : 18/2021

First Reading             : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement              : 1 April 2022

18. Act 7 of 2022 — Intellectual Property (Amendment) Act 2022

Bill                      : 39/2021

First Reading             : 1 November 2021

Second and Third Readings : 12 January 2022

Commencement              : 26 May 2022

19. Act 23 of 2019 — Intellectual Property (Dispute Resolution) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 8 July 2019
                                (Bill No. 17/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 August 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 21 November 2019
                                1 October 2021
                                10 June 2022

20. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 24/2022

First Reading             : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement              : 1 November 2022 (sections 22(14)
                                and 23(4))

21. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill                      : 47/2024

First Reading             : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
Commencement    v
              : 9 March 2025

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
          COMPARATIVE TABLE
         TRADE MARKS ACT 1998

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2005 Ed.
                   7—(10A)
7—(11)
   (12)               (10B)
   (13)               (10C)
   (14)               (11)
   (15)               (12)
   (16)               (13)
                   12—(4A)
12—(5)                (5)
   (6)             40—(1A)
                      (2)
40—(2)             54—(4) [Deleted by Act 16 of 2012]
   (3)

—

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/3/2025
