THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              PUBLIC TRANSPORT COUNCIL
                               ACT 1987

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                                                                2020 Ed.

Public Transport Council
         Act 1987

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                       PUBLIC TRANSPORT COUNCIL

 3. Establishment and constitution of Public Transport Council
 4. Council is body corporate
 5. Functions of Council
 6. Powers of Council
 7. Directions by Minister
 8. Appointment of committees and delegation
 9. Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.
10. Preservation of secrecy
11. Protection from personal liability

                                        PART 3

                            FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

12. Expenses
13. Grants to Council
14. Bank accounts and application of revenue
15. Issue of shares, etc.
16. Power of investment
17. Financial year

                                          1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  2

          PART 4

          PUBLIC TRANSPORT FUND

Section   Public Transport Fund
          Purposes of Public Transport Fund
   18.    Expenses
   19.    Withdrawals
   20.    Financial year
   21.    Accounts
   22.    Financial statements and audit
   23.    Dissolution of Public Transport Fund
   24.    Recovery for overpayment, etc., and offences
   25.    Public Transport Fund regulations
   26.
   27.

                                        PART 5

              LICENSING OF TICKET PAYMENT SERVICES

28. Ticket payment service licences
29. Matters to be considered by Council in granting or renewing

         ticket payment service licences
30. Conditions of ticket payment service licence
31. Council may provide ticket payment service

                                        PART 6
                         FUEL EQUALISATION FUND

32. Establishment of Fuel Equalisation Fund
33. Contravention of section 32

                                        PART 7

           GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO LICENCES

34. Constitution of partnership or company to be licensed
35. Licensee to submit accounts
36. Codes of practice, etc.
37. Directions affecting licensee
38. Modification of licence conditions
39. Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.
40. Appeal to Minister

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
   Public Transport Council

3  Act 1987                                                          2020 Ed.

   PART 8

   BUS FARES, STREET‑HAIL AND RIDE‑HAIL FARE
          PRICING POLICIES AND TRAIN FARES

   Division 1 — General

Section
   41. Bus, train, street-hail and ride-hail fares
   42. Obtaining information for fare setting or reviews, etc.

   Division 2 — Street-hail fare pricing policy

   43. Street-hail fare pricing policy orders
   44. Lodgment of street‑hail fares and street‑hail common pricing

            schemes

   Division 2A — Ride-hail fare pricing policy

   45. Ride-hail fare pricing policy orders
   46. Lodgment of ride-hail fares and ride-hail common pricing

            schemes

   Division 3 — Bus fares and train fares

   47. Application for approval of fares
   48. Unilateral review of fares, etc.
   49. Fare review mechanism
   50. Contribution of proportion of fare increases

                                           PART 9

                         PUBLIC TRANSPORT OFFICIALS

   51. Appointment of public transport officials
   52. Identification card to be produced
   53. Penalty fee for bus fare or train fare evasion
   54. Bus fare or train fare evasion
   55. Evidentiary provisions in proceedings for bus fare or train fare

            evasion
   56. Offence of non-payment of ride-hail fare or street-hail fare
   57. Power to require evidence of identity
   58. Powers of arrest

                                          PART 10
                                    INVESTIGATIONS
   59. Investigation into affairs of licensee

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  4

Section   Procedure and powers of inspectors
          Report of inspector to be admissible in evidence
   60.    Costs of investigations
   61.    Penalty for delaying or obstructing investigation
   62.
   63.

                                        PART 11

                       MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

64. Penalty for unauthorised ticket payment service
65. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
66. Jurisdiction of court
67. Composition of offences
68. Recovery of sums payable
69. Moneys recovered or collected by Council
70. Exemption
71. Service of documents
72. Amendment of Schedule
73. Regulations

         First Schedule — Constitution and proceedings of Council
         Second Schedule — [Repealed]
         Third Schedule — Fare adjustment formula

An Act to provide for the establishment of the Public Transport
  Council to provide for the licensing of ticket payment services, to
  regulate bus fares, street‑hail fares, ride‑hail fares and train fares
  and for matters connected therewith.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

                                                             [14 August 1987]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Public Transport Council Act 1987.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                Public Transport Council

5               Act 1987                                     2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “bookable vehicle” means any of the following vehicles used or
      intended to be used in providing an on‑demand passenger
      transport service through a booking taken or facilitated by a
      provider of a ride‑hail service:

   (a) a taxi;

   (b) a private hire car (within the meaning given by the
        Road Traffic Act 1961) which is hired, or made
        available for hire, under a contract (express or
        implied) for use as a whole with a driver for the
        purpose of conveying one or more passengers (if any)
        in that car;

   “booking”, in relation to a ride‑hail service, means a booking for
      a bookable vehicle to be used in providing an on‑demand
      passenger transport service taken or facilitated by the
      provider of the ride‑hail service;

   “bus” means any motor vehicle registered as a bus under the
      Road Traffic Act 1961;

   “bus fare” means the price payable by a passenger for any bus
      service involving the carriage of the passenger on a bus;

   “bus operator”, in relation to a bus service, means the person
      who operates the bus service but does not include —

   (a) the Land Transport Authority of Singapore; or

   (b) a person who merely arranges for the registration of a
        bus, drives a bus, or maintains or arranges for the
        maintenance of a bus;

   “bus service” means a service for the carriage of passengers for a
      fare by buses on roads for journeys wholly or partly within
      Singapore according to predetermined routes and timetables
      with 2 or more bus stopping points within Singapore, but
      does not include a bus service excluded from this definition
      by the Minister by order in the Gazette;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.                       Act 1987                             6

“bus service licence” means a licence granted (or deemed
   granted) under the Bus Services Industry Act 2015 to operate
   one or more bus services;

“Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Council and
   includes any temporary Chairperson of the Council;

“Chief Executive” means the Chief Executive of the Council,
   and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

“clearing”, in relation to a ticket payment service, means any
   arrangement, process, mechanism or facility provided by a
   person in respect of ticket transactions, by which —

          (a) information relating to the terms of those transactions
               are verified by such person with a view to confirming
               the authenticity of those transactions; or

          (b) the amount payable to the parties under those
               transactions is calculated and verified;

“Council” means the Public Transport Council established under
   section 3;

“fare” means —

          (a) any bus fare;

          (b) any train fare;

          (c) any ride-hail fare; or

          (d) any street-hail fare;

“invalid ticket” means a ticket that is for a journey on a bus or
   train operated by a public bus operator or licensed rapid
   transit system operator for which a ticket is required and —

          (a) that is used, or attempted to be used —

          (i) for a journey that is not the journey for which
              the ticket was issued;

          (ii) to over-travel the fare that was paid for the
               journey, without reasonable excuse; or

          (iii) by a person who is not the first user of a ticket
                which is non-transferable;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                Public Transport Council

7                      Act 1987                              2020 Ed.

   (b) that has been altered or defaced;

   (c) that is counterfeit; or

   (d) that is expired;

   “Land Transport Authority of Singapore” or “LTA” means the
      public authority of that name constituted under the Land
      Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

   “licensed” means —

   (a) licensed under the Bus Services Industry Act 2015 in
        the case of a bus operator;

   (b) licensed under the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 in
        the case of an operator of a rapid transit system;

   (c) licensed under the Road Traffic Act 1961 in the case
       of a taxi driver; or

   (d) licensed under the Point-to-Point Passenger
        Transport Industry Act 2019 in the case of a
        provider of a ride‑hail service provided using
        bookable vehicles, or a street‑hail service;

   “licensee” means a person to whom any licence has been granted
      under this Act;

   “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
      section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

   “manager” —

   (a) in relation to a company, means the principal
        executive officer of the company for the time being
        by whatever name called and whether or not he or she
        is a director of the company; and

   (b) in relation to a limited liability partnership, has the
        meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
        Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

   “on-demand passenger transport service” and “on-demand ride
      booking service” have the meanings given by the
      Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.             Act 1987                                       8

“over-travel”, in relation to a fare, means to remain on a bus or
   train after the place, distance or time covered by the fare paid
   for the journey has been reached and includes, for a smartcard
   ticket, tapping out before the completion of the journey or
   part of the journey;

“paid area” means —

          (a) any platform of a railway station that is part of a rapid
               transit system; and

          (b) any area between such a platform and any ticket
               barrier access or ticket validating machine past which
               access is gained to the platform;

“passenger” means an individual carried upon a bus, train, taxi
   or bookable vehicle (as the case may be) but does not
   include —

          (a) an owner, a driver or fare collector of a bus, train, taxi
               or bookable vehicle while carrying out work or on
               duty in that capacity; or

          (b) a public transport official while carrying out work or
               on duty in that capacity;

“penalty fee” means the penalty fee referred to in section 53;

“price”, in relation to any fare, includes —

          (a) the amount of any rate, fee, levy and charge and any
               other valuable consideration (however described) for
               a journey by bus, train, taxi or bookable vehicle (as
               the case may be), whether or not it is paid or given to
               an operator of a bus service or train service, a
               provider of a street‑hail service or ride‑hail service or
               a driver of a bus, train, taxi or bookable vehicle;

          (b) the provision of, or arrangements for, a discount,
               concession, allowance, rebate or credit applying in
               relation to any amount in paragraph (a); and

          (c) in the case of a ride-hail fare, includes the amount of a
              booking fee,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
   Public Transport Council

9  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

   but does not include a consideration of a kind prescribed by
   the Minister by order in the Gazette for the purposes of this
   definition;

   “pricing policy” means the policy for setting any fare, including
      a policy relating to the level or structure of prices for any fare;

   “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
      under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

   “public bus operator” means a licensed bus operator who is party
      to a public bus services contract for the provision of bus
      services specified in that contract, and includes a licensed bus
      operator holding a Class 1 bus service licence but is not party
      to such a contract;

   “public bus services contract” has the meaning given by the Bus
      Services Industry Act 2015;

   “public service vehicle” has the meaning given by the Road
      Traffic Act 1961;

   “Public Transport Fund” means the fund of that name
      established under Part 4;

   “public transport official” means an individual appointed by the
      Council as a public transport official under section 51;

   “rapid transit system” has the meaning given by the Rapid
      Transit Systems Act 1995;

   “ride-hail common pricing scheme” means a contract made
      between the prescribed ride‑hail industry participants
      providing a ride‑hail service that provides —

   (a) for a common price or price structure for a fare
        component in relation to that ride‑hail service; and

   (b) for periodic reviews of that common price or price
        structure,

   and includes any variation of that contract;

   “ride-hail fare” means the price paid or given for the use of a
      ride‑hail service, whether or not it is paid or given to the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  10

          provider of the ride‑hail service, a driver or any other person,
          and includes a booking fee;

“ride-hail industry participant”, for a type of ride‑hail service,
   means any of the following:

          (a) a ride-hail service licensee authorised to provide that
               type of ride‑hail service;

          (b) any person or class of persons prescribed for the
               purposes of this definition either generally, or with
               respect to that particular type of ride‑hail service;

“ride-hail service” means —

          (a) an on-demand passenger transport service of any type
               provided using bookable vehicles; or

          (b) an on-demand ride booking service of any type
               provided using bookable vehicles;

“ride-hail service licensee” means a person to whom a ride-hail
   service licence to provide a ride-hail service is granted (on
   renewal or otherwise) or deemed granted under the
   Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019;

“smartcard reader” means a device or combination of devices
   that is capable of electronically reading, recording and
   processing information from a ticket that is a smartcard,
   and copying or transferring information from the smartcard
   and storing and displaying the information in legible form;

“street-hail common pricing scheme” means a contract made
   between the prescribed street‑hail industry participants
   providing a street‑hail service that provides —

          (a) for a common price or price structure for a fare
               component in relation to that street‑hail service; and

          (b) for periodic reviews of that common price or price
               structure,

          and includes any variation of that contract;

“street-hail fare” means the price paid or given for the use of a
   street‑hail service, whether or not it is paid or given to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

11  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    provider of the street‑hail service, a driver or any other
    person, but does not include any booking fee for a taxi made
    available, or to be made available, in providing on‑demand
    passenger transport services;

    “street-hail industry participant” means any of the following:

    (a) a street-hail service licensee;

    (b) a taxi driver licensed under the Road Traffic Act 1961
         to drive a taxi not owned by a street‑hail service
         licensee;

    (c) any person or class of persons prescribed for the
        purposes of this definition either generally, or with
        respect to a class of street‑hail service;

    “street-hail service” means a service involving the transport by
       road of passengers within, or partly within, Singapore for hire
       or reward —

    (a) provided using motor vehicles which are taxis; and

    (b) under which any individual can hail or hire
         on‑demand such a motor vehicle when it is —

    (i) standing or plying for hire on a road; and

    (ii) authorised under the Point‑to‑Point Passenger
         Transport Industry Act 2019 or the Road
         Traffic Act 1961 to stand or ply for hire on a
         road;

    “street-hail service licensee” means a person to whom a
       street‑hail service licence to provide a street‑hail service is
       granted (on renewal or otherwise) or deemed granted under
       the Point‑to‑Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019;

    “tap in”, where payment of a fare is made using a smartcard,
       means to present a smartcard ticket to a smartcard reader on
       starting a journey, or part of a journey, resulting in a response
       from the smartcard reader that the transaction is successful;

    “tapping out”, where payment of a fare is made using a
       smartcard, means to present a smartcard ticket to a smartcard

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  12

          reader on completing a journey, or part of a journey, resulting
          in a response from the smartcard reader that the transaction is
          successful;

“taxi” means any public service vehicle which is classified as a
   taxi under the Second Schedule to the Road Traffic Act 1961;

“ticket” means any form of authorisation, issued for the
   conveyance of any passenger on a rapid transit system or
   on any bus operated by a public bus operator, or both;

“ticket payment service” means —

          (a) a service for —

          (i) the clearing of any ticket transaction; or

          (ii) the sale, topping-up, replacement or refund, or
               the management of the use, of a mode of
               payment for tickets; or

          (b) any other services that the Council may, by order in
               the Gazette, prescribe;

“ticket payment service licence” means a licence granted under
   Part 5;

“ticket transaction” means any record of a fare deduction created
   by the use of a mode of payment for tickets;

“train” means a train used as part of a rapid transit system the
   operation of which is licensed under the Rapid Transit
   Systems Act 1995;

“train fare” means the price payable by a passenger for any
   service involving the carriage of the passenger on a train
   operated by a licensed rapid transit system operator;

“train service” means the service for the transport of passengers
   by one or more trains on a rapid transit system within
   Singapore for a fare.

                                  [30/2015; 31/2015; 5/2018; 20/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

13                      Act 1987                              2020 Ed.

                        PART 2

    PUBLIC TRANSPORT COUNCIL

Establishment and constitution of Public Transport Council

 3.—(1) A council called the Public Transport Council is
established, which consists of the following members:

    (a) a Chairperson;

    (b) any other members that the Minister may determine.

 (2) The First Schedule has effect with respect to the Council, its
members and proceedings.

Council is body corporate

 4.—(1) The Public Transport Council is re-constituted as a body
corporate with perpetual succession, capable of all of the following
by that name:

       (a) suing and being sued;

       (b) acquiring, holding and disposing of movable and
            immovable property;

       (c) doing and suffering all acts and things that a body
            corporate may by law do and suffer.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) The Council must have an official seal, which may be broken,
changed, altered or made anew as the Council thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) All deeds and other documents requiring the seal of the Council
must be sealed with the official seal of the Council.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) Every instrument to which the official seal of the Council is
affixed must be signed —

       (a) by any 2 members of the Council generally or specially
            authorised by the Council for the purpose; or

       (b) by one member of the Council and the Chief Executive.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  14

 (5) All courts, judges and persons acting judicially must take
judicial notice of the official seal of the Council affixed to any
document and must presume that it was duly affixed.

                                                                              [3A

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Functions of Council

 5.—(1) The functions of the Council are —

       (a) to set or approve fares and fare pricing policies for bus
            services, train services, street‑hail services and ride‑hail
            services in Singapore;

       (b) to promote and facilitate the integration of bus fares and
            train fares to ensure the provision of efficient public
            passenger transport services and facilities;

       (c) to evaluate and recommend to the Government
            improvements to, or otherwise advise the Government in
            respect of, bus services, train services, street‑hail services
            and ride‑hail services in Singapore so that they —

               (i) may satisfy all reasonable passenger demands in
                   Singapore for bus services, train services, street‑hail
                   services and ride‑hail services;

              (ii) may offer an attractive alternative to private motor
                   vehicle transport, and the extent of such travel, in
                   Singapore;

             (iii) are effectively and efficiently integrated so as to
                   facilitate seamless travel for passengers within and
                   between different modes of land transport and
                   greater mobility within communities in Singapore;
                   and

             (iv) provide viable public passenger transport services at
                   a reasonable cost to the community and the
                   Government;

       (d) to undertake surveys or other arrangements to obtain
            public feedback on any matter relating to the provision of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

15  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    bus services, train services, street‑hail services and
    ride‑hail services in Singapore;

    (e) to exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of
        the provision of ticket payment services in Singapore; and

        (f) to perform such functions as the Minister may, by order in
            the Gazette, assign.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (2) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Council, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court to which it would not
otherwise be subject.

                                                                                [4

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Powers of Council

 6.—(1) The Council has power to do anything for the purpose of
discharging its functions under this Act or which is incidental or
conducive to the discharge of those functions and, in particular,
may —

       (a) grant ticket payment service licences and supervise and
            enforce compliance with the terms of those licences; and

       (b) appoint and employ on such terms and conditions as the
            Council may determine such officers, employees and
            agents as the Council thinks fit for the effective
            performance of its functions.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) The Council must furnish the Minister with information with
respect to its property and activities in such manner and at such times
as the Minister may require.

                                                                                [5

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Directions by Minister

 7. The Minister may give to the Council any direction under
section 5 of the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                              [5A

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  16

Appointment of committees and delegation

 8.—(1) The Council may appoint from among its own members or
from other persons who are not members such number of committees
as it thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of the Council,
would be better regulated and managed by means of such
committees.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) The Council may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as it
thinks fit, delegate any of the functions, duties or powers of the
Council under this Act or any other written law to —

(a) the Chairperson or Chief Executive;

(b) any committee appointed under subsection (1); or

       (c) any member, officer or employee of the Council.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) However, the Council is not authorised by subsection (2) to
delegate any function, duty or power conferred by any provision in
Part 8.

                                                                                                 [31/2015; 5/2018]

 (4) Any function, duty or power delegated under subsection (2) to
any committee or person may be performed or exercised by the
committee or person to whom it has been delegated in the name and
on behalf of the Council.

                                                                              [5B

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Chief Executive, officers and employees, etc.

 9.—(1) There must be a Chief Executive of the Council, whose
appointment, removal, discipline and promotion must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Council may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Chief
Executive during any period, or during all periods, when the Chief
Executive —

       (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

17  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

       (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
            office.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (3) The Council may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint and employ, on such terms and conditions as it may
determine, any other officers, employees, consultants and agents that
may be necessary for the effective performance of its functions.

                                                                              [5C

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Preservation of secrecy

 10.—(1) Except for the purpose of the performance of his or her
duties, or the exercise of his or her functions or when lawfully
required to do so by any court or where required or allowed by the
provisions of any written law, an individual who is or has been —

       (a) a member, an officer, an employee or an agent of the
            Council;

       (b) a member of a committee of the Council; or

       (c) an inspector,

must not disclose any information relating to the affairs of the
Council or of any other person which has been obtained by the
individual in the performance of the individual’s duties or the
exercise of the individual’s functions under this Act.

                                                                                                 [31/2015; 5/2018]

 (2) Any individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

                                                                              [5D

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Protection from personal liability

 11. No liability shall lie personally against any member, officer or
employee of the Council, committee member or other person acting
under the direction of the Council who, acting in good faith and with

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  18

reasonable care, does or omits to do anything in the execution or
purported execution of this Act.

                                                                                [6

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

                                    PART 3

                        FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Expenses

 12. Except as otherwise provided, all expenses incurred in carrying
out the purposes of this Act must be met from the funds of the
Council.

                                                                                [8

Grants to Council

 13. For the purpose of enabling the Council to carry out its
functions under this Act or any other written law, the Minister may
make grants to the Council of such sums as the Minister may
determine out of moneys to be provided by Parliament.

                                                                                [9

Bank accounts and application of revenue

 14.—(1) The Council must open and maintain an account or
accounts with such bank or banks as the Council thinks fit.

 (2) Every such account must be operated upon as far as practicable
by cheque signed by such person or persons authorised to do so by the
Council.

 (3) The moneys of the Council must be applied only in payment or
discharge of expenses, obligations and liabilities of the Council and in
making any payments that the Council is authorised or required to
make.

                                                                               [10

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                       Public Transport Council

19                         Act 1987                           2020 Ed.

Issue of shares, etc.

15. As a consequence of —

    (a) the vesting of any property, rights or liabilities of the
         Government in the Council under this Act; or

    (b) any capital injection or other investment by the
         Government in the Council in accordance with any
         written law,

the Council must issue such shares or other securities to the Minister
for Finance as that Minister may direct.

                                                                             [10A

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Power of investment

 16. The Council may invest its moneys in accordance with the
standard investment power of statutory bodies as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965.

                                                                             [10B

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Financial year

 17. The financial year of the Council begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                               [11

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

                                    PART 4

                      PUBLIC TRANSPORT FUND

Public Transport Fund

 18.—(1) A Government fund called the Public Transport Fund is
established comprising —

       (a) all moneys appropriated from the Consolidated Fund and
            authorised to be paid into the Public Transport Fund by any
            written law;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  20

(b) all contributions made pursuant to the Council’s direction
     under section 50(1), and any other donations made by any
     person for the purposes of the Fund;

          (c) all financial penalties imposed, on or after 1 April 2016, by
              the LTA —

          (i) under the Bus Services Industry Act 2015 on a public
              bus operator for a breach of a condition in the bus
              service licence; or

          (ii) under the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 on a
               licensed rapid transit system operator for a breach of
               a condition in the rapid transit system operator’s
               licence; and

       (d) all investments out of moneys in the Public Transport Fund
            authorised to be made by this Act and the proceeds of any
            such investment, including the net income from such
            investments.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) As from 1 April 2016, the Government must pay into the Public
Transport Fund such sum as the Minister for Finance may determine
out of moneys to be provided by Parliament for the Public Transport
Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Public
Transport Fund, any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may
be) from the realisation of such investments.

                                                                             [11A

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Purposes of Public Transport Fund

 19.—(1) Subject to section 25, the moneys in the Public Transport
Fund may be withdrawn only for the following purposes:

       (a) to provide (directly to individuals or through
            organisations) cash grants, rebates, reliefs and other

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

21  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    financial assistance to passengers using bus services or
    train services;

    (b) to invest subject to the limits in the Financial Procedure
         Act 1966 for investments of public moneys;

       (c) to meet expenses referred to in section 20 incidental to or
            arising from the administration, investment and
            management of moneys in the Public Transport Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), investing includes
engaging in any financial activity, or participating in any financial
arrangement, for the purpose of managing or hedging against any
financial risk that arises or is likely to arise from any investment.

                                                                             [11B

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Expenses

 20.—(1) All costs, expenses and charges incurred in relation to
making any investment of moneys in the Public Transport Fund must
be charged upon and are payable out of that Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) All other expenses incidental to or arising from the
administration and management of moneys in the Public Transport
Fund must be charged upon and are payable out of the Public
Transport Fund, including but not limited to the following:

       (a) the cost of auditing the accounts of the Public Transport
            Fund, and the remuneration of the auditor if he or she is not
            the Auditor‑General;

       (b) all reasonable legal costs and all reasonable expenses
            incurred by the LTA in connection with the collection or
            attempted collection of any outstanding amounts
            (including any interest) of financial penalties referred to
            in section 18(1)(c);

       (c) all reasonable expenses incurred by any public authority or
            person whom the Minister appoints under regulations
            made under section 27 to disburse financial assistance
            using moneys in the Public Transport Fund in carrying out

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  22

            their duties under that appointment and doing any thing
            incidental to or in connection with the purposes of that
            appointment.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) However, no remuneration or allowances payable to a public
officer may be met out of moneys in the Public Transport Fund.

                                                                             [11C

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Withdrawals

 21.—(1) Moneys cannot be withdrawn from the Public Transport
Fund unless they are charged upon that Fund or are authorised to be
withdrawn or transferred under this Act.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) Despite section 13 of the Financial Procedure Act 1966,
payment may be made out of the Public Transport Fund only if the
payment is approved by the Minister or an accounting officer
authorised, in writing, by the Minister.

                                                                             [11D

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Financial year

 22. The financial year of the Public Transport Fund begins on
1 April of each year and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

                                                                             [11E

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Accounts

 23.—(1) The Minister must designate one or more public officers to
be accounting officers of the Public Transport Fund.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) Every accounting officer of the Public Transport Fund must —

       (a) cause to be kept proper accounts and records of all
            transactions and affairs relating to the Public Transport
            Fund, or the transactions and affairs of the part of that Fund
            that the accounting officer is in charge of, as the case may
            be;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

23  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) do all things necessary to ensure that payments out of the
         Public Transport Fund and the disbursement of those
         moneys are properly authorised and correctly made; and

       (c) ensure that adequate control is maintained over the assets
            and receipts of the Public Transport Fund, or the assets and
            receipts of the part of that Fund that the accounting officer
            is in charge of, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) A public officer designated under subsection (1) is also an
accounting officer of the Public Transport Fund for the purposes of
the Financial Procedure Act 1966.

                                                                             [11F

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Financial statements and audit

 24.—(1) As soon as practicable after the close of each financial
year, the Minister must —

       (a) cause to be prepared financial statements and accounts of
            the Public Transport Fund in respect of the financial year;
            and

       (b) cause to be submitted to the Auditor‑General the financial
            statements and accounts prepared under paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) The Auditor-General must audit or cause an audit of the
financial statements and accounts prepared under subsection (1) and
report on them.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) As soon as the accounts of the Public Transport Fund and the
financial statements have been audited, a copy of the audited financial
statements, together with a copy of any report made by the
Auditor‑General, must be submitted to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) Where the Auditor‑General is not the auditor of the Public
Transport Fund, a copy of the audited financial statements and any
report made by the auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor‑General.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  24

 (5) The Minister must as soon as practicable cause a copy of the
audited financial statements of the Public Transport Fund and the
auditor’s report to be presented to Parliament.

                                                                             [11G

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Dissolution of Public Transport Fund

 25. Upon dissolution of the Public Transport Fund during any term
of office of the Government (within the meaning of the Constitution),
the balance then remaining in the Public Transport Fund must be
transferred to the Consolidated Fund and added to the reserves of the
Government not accumulated by it during that term of office.

                                                                             [11H

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Recovery for overpayment, etc., and offences

 26.—(1) Where any amount of moneys in the Public Transport
Fund is withdrawn and paid —

       (a) to a person by way of cash grant, rebate, relief or other
            financial assistance and the person is not eligible to receive
            that cash grant, rebate, relief or financial assistance, or is
            eligible for a lower amount;

       (b) without authorisation or in excess of authorisation, to a
            public authority or person appointed by the Minister under
            regulations made under section 27 to disburse cash grants,
            rebates, reliefs or financial assistance using moneys in the
            Public Transport Fund; or

       (c) for any other purposes which are not authorised or in
            excess of authorisation under this Act,

the amount that has been paid or paid in excess (as the case may be) is
recoverable as a debt due to the Government in a court of competent
jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) If —

       (a) a person furnishes a document, or makes a statement
            (whether orally, in writing or any other way) or gives

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

25  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    information for the purpose of or in connection with
    obtaining, for that person or another person, any cash
    grant, rebate, relief or other financial assistance in
    section 19(1)(a) out of moneys in the Public Transport
    Fund;

    (b) the document, statement or information is false or
         misleading, or the statement or information omits any
         matter or thing without which the statement or information
         (as the case may be) is misleading; and

    (c) the person knows, or ought reasonably to have known, that
        the document is false or misleading, or that the statement or
        information is as described in paragraph (b),

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the document, statement or
information is not false or misleading in a material particular, or if the
statement or information did not omit any matter or thing without
which the statement or information (as the case may be) is misleading
in a material particular.

                                                                              [11I

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Public Transport Fund regulations

 27.—(1) The Minister may make regulations —

       (a) describing the individuals or classes of bus or train
            passengers to whom cash grants, rebates, reliefs and
            other financial assistance may be given from moneys in
            the Public Transport Fund, including the amount, manner
            of and the terms and conditions for so providing;

       (b) providing for the appointment by the Council of any public
            authority or other person to disburse cash grants, rebates,
            reliefs and other financial assistance using moneys in the
            Public Transport Fund and to do anything incidental;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  26

          (c) prescribing that any act or omission in contravention of any
              regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
              exceeding $5,000 or with imprisonment for a term not
              exceeding 12 months or with both; and

       (d) prescribing anything required to carry out the purposes or
            provisions of this Part.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                                                              [11J

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

                                    PART 5

          LICENSING OF TICKET PAYMENT SERVICES

Ticket payment service licences

 28.—(1) A person must not provide or cause to be provided any
ticket payment service without a ticket payment service licence.

 (2) An application for the grant or renewal of a ticket payment
service licence must be made to the Council in such form or manner
as the Council may require and must be accompanied by such
particulars, information and documents as may be specified by the
Council.

 (3) Subject to section 34, upon receipt of an application under
subsection (2), the Council may —

       (a) grant or renew the licence permitting the applicant to
            provide a ticket payment service for such period and on
            such terms and conditions as the Council thinks fit; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence.
                                                                               [19

Matters to be considered by Council in granting or renewing
ticket payment service licences

 29. In exercising its discretion to grant, renew or refuse to grant or
renew a ticket payment service licence under section 28 and the terms

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

27  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

and conditions to impose on the ticket payment service licence, the
Council must have regard to the financial standing of the applicant
and the applicant’s ability to maintain an adequate, satisfactory,
secure and efficient ticket payment service.

                                                                               [20

Conditions of ticket payment service licence

 30.—(1) Without limiting section 28(3), the Council may, in
granting or renewing a ticket payment service licence, impose
conditions —

       (a) requiring the payment to the Council of a fee on the grant
            or renewal of the licence or periodic fees for the duration of
            the licence, or both, of such amount as may be prescribed
            by the Council;

       (b) requiring the payment to the Council of a security deposit
            or performance bond on the grant of the licence, of such
            amount as may be determined by the Council;

       (c) relating to any fee or charge imposed or collectible by the
            licensee;

       (d) relating to the provision or operation of any ticket payment
            service;

       (e) relating to the standards of performance to be complied by
            the licensee in connection with the provision or operation
            of ticket payment services;

        (f) relating to competition and the abuse of dominant position
            with respect to the provision or operation of any ticket
            payment service;

       (g) requiring the licensee to furnish information with respect
            to the licensee’s ticket payment service to the Council or
            any agent appointed by the Council in such manner and at
            such times as the Council may require;

       (h) requiring the licensee to seek the approval of the Council
            before making any material change to any operating rule or
            activity of the licensee’s ticket payment service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  28

          (i) if the licensee is a company, requiring the approval of the
              Council for the appointment, reappointment or removal of
              any individual as the chairperson of the board of directors
              of that company; and

          (j) requiring the licensee to undergo and pass such audit as the
              Council may determine for compliance with —

          (i) the relevant provisions of this Act;

          (ii) the terms and conditions of the licence;

          (iii) the codes of practice issued, approved or modified by
                the Council under section 36;

          (iv) any direction given by the Council under section 37;
               and

             (v) the standards of performance issued by the Council
                  under paragraph (e).

                                                                                                         [20/2019]

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1)(j) —

(a) the audit must be conducted by —

          (i) officers of the Council who have been duly
              designated by the Council for the purpose; or

          (ii) a qualified independent audit team approved by the
               Council for the purpose;

(b) the Council may require the licensee —

          (i) to submit to the Council or to the persons conducting
              the audit such information as the Council may
              specify which pertains to the provision or
              operation of any ticket payment service by the
              licensee; and

          (ii) to allow the persons conducting the audit to carry out
               on-site collection or verification of any information
               which pertains to the provision or operation of any
               ticket payment service by the licensee;

          (c) any sample size used by the persons conducting the audit is
              deemed to be reasonable; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

29  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (d) the costs of and incidental to the conduct of the audit must
         be borne by the licensee.
                                                                           [21

Council may provide ticket payment service

 31. If there is for any reason no person providing any ticket
payment service for the land transport system in Singapore or any part
of the system, the Council may provide or cause to be provided a
ticket payment service having regard to the reasonable requirements
of the system in Singapore or part thereof.

                                                                               [22

                                    PART 6

                     FUEL EQUALISATION FUND

Establishment of Fuel Equalisation Fund

 32.—(1) Every person to whom a Class 1 bus service licence or a
licence under Part 3 of the Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995 has been
granted must —

       (a) establish and maintain a Fuel Equalisation Fund (called in
            this Part the Fund) for the purpose of mitigating the effects
            of any increase in fuel price and electricity tariff; and

       (b) pay into the Fund an annual contribution of such amount as
            the Council may, from time to time, determine.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (2) A person mentioned in subsection (1) must not withdraw any
sum of money from the Fund except with the approval of the Council.

 (3) An application to withdraw any sum of money from the Fund
must be made to the Council in such form or manner as the Council
may require.

 (4) Upon receiving an application under subsection (3), the Council
may —

       (a) grant the application to withdraw the sum of money from
            the Fund in full or in part for the purpose mentioned in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  30

          subsection (1)(a), subject to such conditions as the Council
          thinks fit; or

                                                                       [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

(b) reject the application.

                                                                    [22A

 (5) Despite subsection (4), the Council may, subject to such
conditions as the Council thinks fit, grant an application to
withdraw any sum of money from the Fund, for a purpose other
than the purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(a), if —

(a) the Fund is established and maintained by a person to
     whom a Class 1 bus service licence has been granted
     (called A);

(b) the application is made by A;

          (c) the sum of money applied to be withdrawn does not exceed
              Z; and

       (d) the sum of money that is applied to be withdrawn does not
            include any amount paid into the Fund under
            subsection (1)(b) on or after the date of commencement
            of section 4 of the Transport Sector (Miscellaneous
            Amendments) Act 2025.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

 (6) In subsection (5)(c), Z is an amount determined in accordance
with the formula X – Y, where —

(a) X is the amount standing in the Fund immediately before
     1 January 2014; and

(b) Y is the aggregate of the sum of moneys withdrawn from
     the Fund under subsection (4)(a) or (5) (as the case may be)
     on or after 1 January 2014 but prior to the application in
     question.

                                                                    [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

Contravention of section 32

 33.—(1) If the Council is satisfied that any person mentioned in
section 32(1) has contravened section 32(1) or (2) or any condition
imposed under section 32(4) or (5), the Council may, by written

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

31  Act 1987                  2020 Ed.

notice, require that person to pay to the Council a financial penalty in
respect of the contravention of an amount not exceeding $100,000.

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

 (2) Unless otherwise directed by the Minister, the financial penalty
payable by the person under subsection (1) does not absolve the
person —

    (a) from the person’s compliance with section 32(1); and

    (b) if the Council requires the person to do so, from paying
         into the Fund such sum of money withdrawn by the person
         from the Fund without the approval of the Council.

 (3) The Council must, in any notice requiring the payment of a
financial penalty, specify the date before which the financial penalty
is to be paid, being a date not earlier than the end of the period within
which an appeal against the decision may be brought under
section 40.

 (4) Any financial penalty payable by any person under
subsection (1) is recoverable as a debt due to the Council from that
person, and the person’s liability to pay such penalty is not affected by
the person’s licence ceasing (for any reason) to be in force.

                                                                             [22B

                                    PART 7
       GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO LICENCES
Constitution of partnership or company to be licensed
 34.—(1) If the applicant for a licence under Part 5 is a partnership,
all the partners of the partnership must be approved by the Council
before the licence may be granted or renewed.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (2) If the applicant for a licence under Part 5 is a limited liability
partnership —

       (a) all the partners of the limited liability partnership must be
            approved by the Council; and

       (b) where any partner is a company, all the directors of that
            company must be approved by the Council,

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  32

before the licence may be granted or renewed.

                                                                    [30/2015]

 (3) If the applicant for a licence under Part 5 is a company, all the
directors of the company must be approved by the Council before the
licence may be granted or renewed.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (4) A person must not be appointed to be a new partner or director
of a licensee unless the person is approved by the Council.

 (5) Every licensee to whom a licence has been granted under Part 5
must inform the Council of —

(a) if the licensee is a partnership, the withdrawal by, or the
     expulsion of, any partner from the partnership;

(b) if the licensee is a limited liability partnership, the
     withdrawal by, or the expulsion of, any partner from the
     limited liability partnership and, where any partner is a
     company, the resignation or removal of any director of that
     company;

          (c) if the licensee is a company, the resignation or removal of
              any director of the company; and

(d) if the licensee is a partnership, limited liability partnership
     or company, the death of any partner or director.
                                                                     [22C

                                                                                                 [30/2015]

Licensee to submit accounts

 35.—(1) Every licensee to whom a licence has been granted under
Part 5 must submit —

       (a) a copy of the balance sheet and of the profit and loss
            account for the financial year which have been respectively
            audited by the licensee’s auditors (including every
            document required by law to be annexed or attached
            thereto) and certified to be a true copy by —

               (i) the licensee;

              (ii) if the licensee is a partnership, a partner of the
                   partnership;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

33                     Act 1987                               2020 Ed.

    (iii) if the licensee is a limited liability partnership, a
          partner or manager of the limited liability
          partnership, as the case may be; or

    (iv) if the licensee is a company, a director or the manager
         or the secretary of the company, as the case may be;
         and

    (b) a certified copy of the report of the auditors thereon,

within 3 months after the close of each financial year of the licensee’s
undertaking or within such extended period as the Council may
approve.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (2) If the balance sheet or profit and loss account is in a language
other than English, there must also be annexed to it a translation in
English certified to be a correct translation.

 (3) If the balance sheet or profit and loss account did not comply
with the requirements of the law in force at the date of the audit, there
must be made such additions to and corrections in the copy in order to
make it comply with the requirements, and the fact that the copy has
been so amended must be stated thereon.

 (4) The licensee must cause to be attached to the profit and loss
account a statement or statements of the total revenue and
expenditure of the licensee for the financial year containing such
particulars and in such form as the Council may direct.

 (5) The statement or statements mentioned in subsection (4) must
be duly audited and signed by —

    (a) the licensee;

    (b) if the licensee is a partnership, a partner of the partnership;

    (c) if the licensee is a limited liability partnership, a partner or
        manager of the limited liability partnership, as the case
        may be; or

    (d) if the licensee is a company, at least 2 of the directors of the
         company.
                                                                         [22D

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.                 Act 1987                                   34

Codes of practice, etc.

 36.—(1) The Council may issue or approve and, from time to time,
modify codes of practice in connection with —

(a) the operation or provision of any ticket payment service by
     licensees;

(b) the conduct of licensees; and

       (c) the preservation and promotion of fair competition among
            providers of ticket payment services.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (2) Every licensee must comply with any code of practice issued,
approved or modified by the Council under subsection (1), except
that if any provision in any such code of practice is inconsistent with
this Act, that provision does not have effect to the extent of the
inconsistency.

 (3) The Council may, if the circumstances so warrant, exempt any
licensee from any provision in any code of practice, whether
unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Council thinks
fit to impose, and whether permanently or for such time as the
Council may specify.

 (4) Any code of practice issued, approved or modified by the
Council is deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

                                                                             [22E

Directions affecting licensee

 37.—(1) The Council may give directions to be observed by
licensees for or in respect of the following matters:

       (a) the extent, hours and general level of ticket payment
            services to be operated or provided by licensees;

       (b) the provision of ticket payment services by licensees;

       (c) the preservation and promotion of fair competition among
            providers of ticket payment services;

       (d) any other matters affecting the interests of the public in
            connection with the services provided by licensees.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

35  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

(2) Any direction given under subsection (1) —

    (a) may require the licensee concerned to do or to refrain from
         doing (as the case may be) such things as are specified or
         described in the direction;

    (b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
         time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

    (c) may be revoked at any time by the Council.

 (3) Before giving any direction to any licensee under
subsection (1), the Council —

    (a) must give notice to the licensee —

    (i) informing the licensee of the proposed direction and
        setting out its effect; and

    (ii) specifying the time within which representations or
         objections to the proposed direction may be made by
         the licensee in connection with the proposed
         direction,

    (a) unless the Council, in respect of any particular direction,
         considers that it is not practicable or desirable that such
         notice be given; and

    (b) must consider any representation or objection which is
         duly made by the licensee in accordance with
         paragraph (a)(ii).

 (4) Every licensee must comply with every direction given to the
licensee by the Council under this section.

                                                                             [22F

Modification of licence conditions

 38.—(1) Subject to this section, the Council may, without any
compensation, add to, delete or modify the conditions of a licence
imposed under this Act.

 (2) Before making any addition to or deletion or modification of the
conditions of a licence under subsection (1), the Council must give
notice to the licensee —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.                 Act 1987                                   36

(a) stating that it proposes to make the addition, deletion or
     modification in the manner specified in the notice; and

(b) specifying the time (not being less than 28 days from the
     date of service of the notice on such licensee) within which
     the licensee may make written representations to the
     Council with respect to the proposed addition, deletion or
     modification.

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation referred to in
subsection (2)(b), the Council must consider the representation and
may —

(a) reject the representation;

(b) amend the proposed addition, deletion or modification in
     such manner as it thinks fit having regard to the
     representation; or

          (c) withdraw the proposed addition, deletion or modification.

(4) Where the Council —

(a) rejects any written representation under subsection (3)(a);
     or

(b) amends any proposed addition, deletion or modification
     under subsection (3)(b),

the Council must issue a written direction to the licensee requiring the
licensee, within the time specified by the Council, to give effect to the
addition, deletion or modification as specified in the notice or as
amended by the Council, as the case may be.

(5) The Council must not enforce its direction —

(a) during the period referred to in section 40(1); and

(b) while the appeal of the licensee is under consideration by
     the Minister.

 (6) If no written representation is received by the Council within the
time specified in subsection (2)(b) or if any written representation
made under that subsection is subsequently withdrawn, the Council
may immediately carry out the addition to or deletion or modification

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

37  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

of the conditions of the licence as specified in the notice given to the
licensee under subsection (2).

                                                                             [22G

Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.

 39.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), if any licensee —

       (a) contravenes or fails to secure the compliance by the
            licensee’s employees, agents or contractors with —

               (i) any condition of a ticket payment service licence; or

              (ii) any provision of this Act;

       (b) in the opinion of the Council, fails or is likely to fail to
            provide and maintain an adequate, satisfactory, secure and
            efficient ticket payment service;

       (c) goes into compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than
            for the purpose of reconstruction or amalgamation;

       (d) makes any assignment to, or composition with, the
            licensee’s creditors;

       (e) fails to comply with any code of practice issued, approved
            or modified under section 36; or

        (f) fails to comply with any direction given under section 37,

the Council may, by written notice and without any compensation, do
all or any of the following:

       (g) suspend or cancel the licence of the licensee;

       (h) forfeit the whole or any part of any security deposit or
            performance bond paid to the Council by the licensee or by
            the licensee’s bank pursuant to a bank guarantee;

        (i) require the licensee to pay, within a specified period, a
            financial penalty of such amount not exceeding $100,000
            for each contravention or breach as the Council thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (2) The Council must not impose any financial penalty under
subsection (1)(i) on any licensee by reason only that under
subsection (1)(b) the Council is of the opinion that the licensee is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  38

likely to fail to provide and maintain an adequate and satisfactory bus
service or an adequate, satisfactory, secure and efficient ticket
payment service, as the case may be.

                                                                             [22H

Appeal to Minister

 40.—(1) Any licensee aggrieved by —

       (a) any refusal by the Council to renew a licence under
            section 28(3);

       (b) any condition imposed by the Council under
            section 30(1)(e);

       (c) any decision of the Council made under section 32(4) or
            (5), 33(1) or 39(1)(g), (h) or (i);

                                                                               [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

       (d) anything contained in any code of practice issued,
            approved or modified by the Council under section 36; or

       (e) any direction given by the Council under section 37 or
            issued by the Council under section 38(4),

may, within 14 days of the receipt of the notice relating to the relevant
matter, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

 (2) Unless otherwise provided, where an appeal is lodged under this
section, the decision, direction or other thing appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

 (3) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction of the
Council or by amending any condition imposed or code of practice
issued, approved or modified by the Council.

 (4) The decision of the Minister in any appeal is final.
                                                                              [22I

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

39  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    PART 8

    BUS FARES, STREET‑HAIL AND RIDE‑HAIL FARE
           PRICING POLICIES AND TRAIN FARES

                                                              [20/2019]

    Division 1 — General

                                                              [31/2015]

Bus, train, street-hail and ride-hail fares

 41.—(1) A person must not demand or take from a bus passenger,
for any bus service involving the carriage of the passenger on a bus
and operated by the person, or by the person on behalf of the licensed
bus operator of the bus service, a bus fare that —

       (a) is more than the maximum price approved under section 47
            or 48 for that bus service;

       (b) is inconsistent with any part of the pricing policy set or
            approved under section 47 or 48 for that bus service; or

       (c) is different from the bus fare last published by the licensed
            bus operator for that bus service.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (2) A person must not demand or take from a train passenger, for
any train service involving the carriage of the passenger on a train and
operated by the person, or by the person on behalf of the licensed
rapid transit system operator, a train fare that —

       (a) is more than the maximum price approved under section 47
            or 48 for that train service;

       (b) is inconsistent with any part of the pricing policy set or
            approved under section 47 or 48 for that train service; or

       (c) is different from the train fare last published by the
            licensed rapid transit system operator for that train service.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) A person must not initiate the collection of, or collect, a
street‑hail fare for a passenger’s journey in a taxi provided in the
course of a street‑hail service if the street‑hail fare —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  40

(a) is inconsistent with any part of the pricing policy set under
     section 43 for that street‑hail service; or

       (b) is more than the street‑hail fare last published by the
            street‑hail service licensee authorised to provide that
            street‑hail service.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (4) A person must not initiate the collection of, or collect, a ride‑hail
fare for a passenger’s journey in a bookable vehicle provided in the
course of an on‑demand passenger transport service relating to a
ride‑hail service if the ride‑hail fare —

(a) is inconsistent with any part of the pricing policy set under
     section 45 for that ride‑hail service; or

       (b) is more than the ride‑hail fare last published by the
            ride‑hail service licensee authorised to provide that
            ride‑hail service.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (5) A street‑hail service licensee or ride‑hail service licensee which
offers to the public, or any section of the public, as the case may be —

(a) any street‑hail service for any street‑hail fare that is
     inconsistent with any part of the pricing policy set under
     section 43 for that street‑hail service; or

(b) any ride‑hail service for any ride‑hail fare that is
     inconsistent with any part of the pricing policy set under
     section 45 for that ride‑hail service,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (6) If any dispute arises as to the fare calculated according to
distance, the dispute may be referred to the Council or to the
officer‑in‑charge of any police station whose decision is final, and
any certificate issued by the Council or the police officer with regard
thereto is admissible in evidence.

 (7) Any person who demands or takes or attempts to take any
money in contravention of subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) shall be

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

41  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (8) To avoid doubt, an offence under this section is a strict liability
offence.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (9) For the purposes of this section, where the Council revokes or
suspends its approval of any bus fare or train fare under section 47(5)
or (6)(a) (called in this section the replaced fare) —

    (a) the last revocation revives the bus fare or train fare
         approved (if any) by the Council previous to it approving
         the replaced fare, and with effect from the revocation, the
         bus fare or train fare revived is to be regarded as an
         approved maximum price for the fare; or

      (b) for the period of suspension, the bus fare or train fare
           approved by the Council previous to the suspension of the
           replaced fare is revived, and for that period, the replaced
           bus fare or train fare is not to be regarded as an approved
           maximum price for the fare.

                                                                                                         [31/2015]

(10) To avoid doubt, subsections (1) and (7) bind —

    (a) the Land Transport Authority of Singapore in respect of
         every public bus services contract it is a party to, or when
         the Land Transport Authority of Singapore operates a bus
         service, as if it is the bus operator in that subsection;

    (b) every public bus operator providing bus services under a
         public bus services contract as if it is the bus operator in
         that subsection; and

    (c) every employee of the Land Transport Authority of
        Singapore or a bus operator referred to in paragraph (b)
        employed to deliver those bus services.
                                                                           [23

                                                                                                    [31/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  42

Obtaining information for fare setting or reviews, etc.

42.—(1) In this section, “relevant person” means —

(a) any licensed bus operator;

(b) any licensed rapid transit system operator; or

       (c) any street‑hail industry participant or ride‑hail industry
            participant.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (2) The Council may by written notice require a relevant person to
furnish, within a reasonable period and in such form and manner as
may be specified in the notice, such accounts, financial statements or
other documents and information —

(a) which the Council considers necessary to carry out the
     functions or duties of or assigned to the Council by or
     under section 43, 45, 47 or 48; and

       (b) which are within the knowledge of the relevant person or
            are in the relevant person’s custody or under the relevant
            person’s control.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (3) The power to require a relevant person to furnish any accounts,
financial statements, document or information under subsection (2)
includes the power to require the relevant person, or any person who
is or was an officer or employee of the relevant person, to provide an
explanation of the accounts, financial statements, document or
information.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) Any person who, in furnishing any accounts, financial
statements, document or information required under
subsection (2) —

(a) makes a statement which the person knows to be false or
     misleading in a material particular; or

(b) recklessly makes a statement which is false or misleading
     in a material particular,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

43  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, refuses to furnish
any accounts, financial statements, document or information required
under subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (6) The Council may by written notice require the LTA to furnish or
supply to the Council any particulars or information —

    (a) which are obtained by the LTA in the performance of its
         function under the Bus Services Industry Act 2015; and

       (b) which the Council considers necessary to carry out the
            functions or duties of or assigned to the Council by or
            under this Part.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (7) Despite the provisions of the Land Transport Authority of
Singapore Act 1995, the LTA must furnish the particulars and
information required under subsection (6) within such time as may be
agreed to between the Council and the LTA.

                                                                             [23A

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

    Division 2 — Street-hail fare pricing policy

                                                              [20/2019]

Street-hail fare pricing policy orders

 43.—(1) Subject to subsection (4) and any regulations made under
subsection (8), the Council may, by order in the Gazette (called a
street‑hail fare pricing policy order), set the pricing policy for
street‑hail fares for any street‑hail service.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (2) A street‑hail fare pricing policy order for a street‑hail service
may set the price‑fixing factors for street‑hail fares in any manner the
Council considers appropriate, including —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  44

(a) fixing the components of street‑hail fares for the street‑hail
     service;

(b) fixing the pricing policy or principles that are to be applied
     in relation to the street‑hail service provided;

          (c) specifying a factor or factors to be applied, and the manner
              in which such a factor is or factors are to be applied, in
              setting street‑hail fares or terms and conditions for the
              street‑hail service provided;

(d) fixing the basis on which prices of street‑hail fares are to be
     calculated for different taxis, for different types of journeys
     by taxis, for different passengers or for hiring of taxis in
     different circumstances;

          (e) fixing a price for components of a street‑hail fare where a
              street‑hail common pricing scheme is permitted and there
              is no street‑hail common pricing scheme in effect;

          (f) fixing a maximum or minimum price or price range, or a
              maximum rate of increase or decrease or minimum rate of
              increase or decrease in the price or the maximum and
              minimum price for street‑hail fares for the street‑hail
              service provided, or other price control formula;

(g) regulating or prohibiting payment surcharges and charges
     on transactions involving payment of a street‑hail fare; and

       (h) any other terms the Council considers appropriate.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (3) A street‑hail fare pricing policy order for a street‑hail service
may —

(a) permit the street‑hail industry participants, by a street‑hail
     common pricing scheme, to vary one or more components
     of a street‑hail fare for the street‑hail service set for that
     component in the street‑hail fare pricing policy order; and

(b) require a street‑hail industry participant to provide
     information to other street‑hail industry participants,
     passengers, prospective passengers or others, or
     generally publish, or cause to be published, information,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

45  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

            relating to its prices of and pricing policies for street‑hail
            fares for street‑hail services provided by the street‑hail
            industry participant.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (4) In making a street‑hail fare pricing policy order, the Council
may consider the following factors:

    (a) the demand and supply of street‑hail services and ride‑hail
         services;

    (b) the standards of quality, reliability and safety of the
         street‑hail services and ride‑hail services, whether those
         standards are specified by legislation, agreement or
         otherwise, and any suggested or actual changes to those
         standards;

    (c) the need for greater efficiency in providing passengers
        responsive, safe, competitive, efficient and accessible
        street‑hail services and ride‑hail services;

       (d) any other matters that the Council considers relevant.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (5) A street‑hail fare pricing policy order under subsection (1) takes
effect on a date specified in the order, and —

    (a) cannot be varied (except as contemplated by the order);
         and

       (b) may be revoked by the Council with or without making
            another street‑hail fare pricing policy order in replacement.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (6) Before the date a street‑hail fare pricing policy order under
subsection (1) comes into effect, the Council must give notice of the
making of the order in such manner as will secure adequate publicity
for it.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (7) However, failure to comply with subsection (6) in respect of any
such order under subsection (1) does not in itself invalidate the order.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (8) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the content,
form and procedure that must be followed by the Council in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  46

connection with the preparation and making of a street‑hail fare
pricing policy order for the purposes of subsection (1).

                                                                             [23B

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

Lodgment of street‑hail fares and street‑hail common pricing
schemes

 44.—(1) Within the prescribed period after a street‑hail fare pricing
policy order is made for any street‑hail service but before it takes
effect for the street‑hail service, every street‑hail industry participant
providing that street‑hail service must —

       (a) determine the prices of street‑hail fares for that street‑hail
            service if no prices are set by that order; and

       (b) lodge with the Council those prices determined, together
            with any supporting information the Council may require.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (2) Where a street‑hail fare pricing policy order for a street‑hail
service permits a street‑hail common pricing scheme to vary one or
more components of the street‑hail fare in the street‑hail fare pricing
policy order, the prescribed street‑hail industry participants for the
street‑hail common pricing scheme —

       (a) may start collective negotiations among themselves to
            determine the common prices of those components of
            street‑hail fares to be charged, or to vary those common
            prices, and the period during which those prices will apply;
            and

       (b) must lodge with the Council the street‑hail common
            pricing scheme with the common prices determined or
            varied under that scheme and the effective date of those
            prices, together with any supporting information the
            Council may require.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (3) The common prices last lodged with the Council under
subsection (2)(b) for any component of a street‑hail fare for
street‑hail services have the effect of varying, from the date
specified in the lodgment, any price set by the Council in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

47                           Act 1987                         2020 Ed.

street‑hail fare pricing policy order for that component for those
street‑hail services (even though not agreed to by all the prescribed
street‑hail industry participants providing those street‑hail services)
until the street‑hail common pricing scheme is terminated.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (4) A group of licensed taxi drivers who drive taxis not owned by a
street‑hail service licensee may appoint an association, organisation
or a body (whether corporate or unincorporate) recognised by the
Council for the purpose of this section to be a bargaining
representative to negotiate a street‑hail common pricing scheme on
behalf of the group.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (5) To have effect, a street‑hail common pricing scheme for any
component of a street‑hail fare —

    (a) must be in writing;

    (b) must be agreed to by the street‑hail industry participants
         prescribed for that component of the street‑hail fare;

    (c) must be made after following the procedure (if prescribed)
        in connection with the preparation and making; and

       (d) must state a process for dispute resolution.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (6) A street‑hail industry participant may be party to more than
one street‑hail common pricing scheme.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

 (7) For the purposes of the Third Schedule to the Competition
Act 2004, every street‑hail common pricing scheme permitted by a
street‑hail fare pricing policy order is, when made, to be regarded as
an agreement made in order to comply with a legal requirement.

                                                                             [23C

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

              Division 2A — Ride-hail fare pricing policy

Ride-hail fare pricing policy orders

 45.—(1) Subject to subsection (5) and any regulations made under
subsection (9), the Council may, by order in the Gazette (called a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  48

ride‑hail fare pricing policy order), set the pricing policy for ride‑hail
fares for all types of or any type of ride‑hail service.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (2) Different ride-hail fare pricing policy orders may be made under
subsection (1) in relation to different types of ride‑hail services.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (3) A ride-hail fare pricing policy order for a ride‑hail service may
set the price fixing factors for ride‑hail fares in any manner the
Council considers appropriate, including —

(a) fixing the components of ride‑hail fares for the ride‑hail
     service;

(b) fixing the pricing policy or principles that are to be applied
     in relation to the ride‑hail service provided;

          (c) specifying a factor or factors to be applied, and the manner
              in which such a factor is or factors are to be applied, in
              setting ride‑hail fares or terms and conditions for the
              ride‑hail service provided;

(d) fixing the basis on which prices of ride-hail fares are to be
     calculated for different bookable vehicles, for different
     types of journeys by bookable vehicles, for different
     passengers or for hiring of bookable vehicles in different
     circumstances;

          (e) fixing a price for components of a ride‑hail fare where a
              ride‑hail common pricing scheme is permitted and there is
              no ride‑hail common pricing scheme in effect;

          (f) fixing a maximum or minimum price or price range, or a
              maximum rate of increase or decrease or minimum rate of
              increase or decrease in the price or the maximum and
              minimum price for ride‑hail fares for the ride‑hail service
              provided, or other price control formula;

(g) regulating or prohibiting payment surcharges and charges
     on transactions involving payment of a ride‑hail fare; and

(h) any other terms the Council considers appropriate.

                                                                                                 [20/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

49  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) A ride-hail fare pricing policy order relating to a type of
ride‑hail service may —

    (a) permit the ride-hail industry participants, by a ride‑hail
         common pricing scheme, to vary one or more components
         of a ride‑hail fare for that ride-hail service set for that
         component in the ride‑hail fare pricing policy order; and

       (b) require a ride-hail industry participant of that type of
            ride‑hail service to provide information to other ride‑hail
            industry participants, passengers, prospective passengers
            or others, or generally publish, or cause to be published,
            information relating to its prices of and pricing policies for
            ride‑hail fares for ride‑hail services provided by the
            ride‑hail industry participant.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (5) In making a ride-hail fare pricing policy order relating to a type
of ride‑hail service, the Council may consider the following factors:

    (a) the demand and supply of ride‑hail services and street‑hail
         services;

    (b) the standards of quality, reliability and safety of ride‑hail
         services and street‑hail services, whether those standards
         are specified by legislation, agreement or otherwise, and
         any suggested or actual changes to those standards;

    (c) the need for greater efficiency in providing passengers
        responsive, safe, competitive, efficient and accessible
        ride‑hail services and street‑hail services;

       (d) any other matters that the Council considers relevant.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (6) A ride‑hail fare pricing policy order under subsection (1)
relating to a type of ride‑hail service takes effect on a date specified in
the order, and —

    (a) cannot be varied (except as contemplated by the order);
         and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  50

       (b) may be revoked by the Council with or without making
            another ride‑hail fare pricing policy order in replacement
            in relation to that same type of ride‑hail service.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (7) Before the date a ride‑hail fare pricing policy order under
subsection (1) relating to a type of ride‑hail service comes into effect,
the Council must give notice of the making of the order in such
manner as will secure adequate publicity for it.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (8) However, failure to comply with subsection (7) in respect of any
such order under subsection (1) does not in itself invalidate the order.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (9) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the content,
form and procedure that must be followed by the Council in
connection with the preparation and making of a ride‑hail fare pricing
policy order for the purposes of subsection (1).

                                                                             [23D

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

Lodgment of ride-hail fares and ride-hail common pricing
schemes

 46.—(1) Within the prescribed period after a ride‑hail fare pricing
policy order is made for any ride‑hail service but before it takes effect
for the ride‑hail service, every ride‑hail industry participant providing
that ride‑hail service must —

       (a) determine the prices of ride-hail fares for that ride‑hail
            service if no prices are set by that order; and

       (b) lodge with the Council those prices determined unless the
            nature of the ride‑hail fare makes lodgment impracticable,
            together with any supporting information the Council may
            require.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (2) Where a ride-hail fare pricing policy order for a ride‑hail service
permits a ride‑hail common pricing scheme to vary one or more
components of the ride‑hail fare in the ride‑hail fare pricing policy
order, the prescribed ride‑hail industry participants for that ride‑hail
common pricing scheme —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

51                           Act 1987                         2020 Ed.

    (a) may start collective negotiations among themselves to
         determine the common prices of those components of
         ride‑hail fares to be charged, or to vary those common
         prices, and the period during which those prices will apply;
         and

       (b) must lodge with the Council the ride‑hail common pricing
            scheme with the common prices determined or varied
            under that scheme and the effective date of those prices,
            together with any supporting information the Council may
            require.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (3) The common prices last lodged with the Council under
subsection (2)(b) for any component of a ride‑hail fare for ride‑hail
services have the effect of varying, from the date specified in the
lodgment, any price set by the Council in the ride‑hail fare pricing
policy order for that component for those ride‑hail services (even
though not agreed to by all the prescribed ride‑hail industry
participants providing those ride‑hail services) until the ride‑hail
common pricing scheme is terminated.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (4) To have effect, a ride-hail common pricing scheme for any
component of a ride‑hail fare —

    (a) must be in writing;

    (b) must be agreed to by the ride‑hail industry participants
         prescribed for that component of the ride‑hail fare;

    (c) must be made after following the procedure (if prescribed)
        in connection with the preparation and making; and

    (d) must state a process for dispute resolution.

                                                              [20/2019]

 (5) A ride-hail industry participant may be party to more than
one ride‑hail common pricing scheme.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (6) For the purposes of the Third Schedule to the Competition
Act 2004, every ride‑hail common pricing scheme permitted by a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  52

ride‑hail fare pricing policy order is, when made, to be regarded as an
agreement made in order to comply with a legal requirement.

                                                                             [23E

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

          Division 3 — Bus fares and train fares

                                                                    [31/2015]

Application for approval of fares

 47.—(1) An application for the Council’s approval of the price of,
or the pricing policy for, any bus fare or train fare, must —

       (a) be made in such form and manner as the Council may
            determine; and

       (b) be supported by such documents (including certified
            copies of any balance sheet and profit and loss account,
            and any auditor’s report, relating to the applicant’s
            undertaking) as the Council may require.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) In considering any application for approval of the price of, or
the pricing policy for, any bus fare or train fare, the Council must take
into account —

       (a) the need for the applicant to remain financially viable;

       (b) the requirements imposed by or under section 49;

       (c) the need for fare concessions to address the interests of
            certain passengers like the elderly and students;

       (d) facilitating integrated and seamless travel by passengers
            making journeys which involve the use of —

               (i) the bus services and train services of more than
                   one bus operator (whether or not a public bus
                   operator) or rapid transit system operator;

              (ii) more than one bus service or train service (whether
                   or not operated by the same person); or

             (iii) both bus services and train services (whether or not
                   operated by the same person);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

53  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (e) facilitating the integration of bus fares and train fares;

    (f) the need to optimise the bus and rapid transit system
        network capacity of buses and trains and to ensure
        economic, financial and technical viability of the public
        bus system and the rapid transit system;

    (g) whether increases in bus fares or train fares could cause
         financial hardship to commuters because there is, or is
         imminent, a severe economic recession in Singapore or
         other extenuating circumstances; and

       (h) the need for public interest to be safeguarded.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) On receipt of an application under subsection (1), the Council
may —

    (a) refuse the application; or

       (b) approve the application subject to such conditions as the
            Council thinks fit, such as any requirement in
            section 48(5)(b), (c) or (d).

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) The Council’s approval under subsection (3) or decision on
review under section 48 may be expressed in one or more of the
following terms:

    (a) fixing the price or the rate of increase or decrease in the
         price of bus fares or train fares;

    (b) fixing a maximum or minimum price, or a maximum rate
         of increase in the maximum price, of bus fares or train
         fares;

    (c) fixing an average price for specified bus services or train
        services, or an average rate of increase or decrease in the
        average price of bus fares or train fares;

    (d) specifying pricing policies or principles for bus fares or
         train fares, including a policy or principle requiring
         prospective passengers to be informed in advance of any
         change in bus fares or train fares;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  54

          (e) specifying an amount determined by reference to a general
              price index, the cost of production, a rate of return on assets
              employed or any other specified factor;

          (f) specifying an amount determined by reference to quantity
              (such as number of journeys or passengers), location,
              period or other specified factor relevant to the supply of the
              bus services or train services;

       (g) any other terms the Council considers appropriate.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) Subject to subsection (7), the Council may, by order and without
compensation, revoke any approval granted under subsection (3)(b)
or section 48 if the Council is satisfied that —

(a) the applicant has failed to comply with any condition
     imposed by the Council under subsection (3)(b) or
     requirements in section 48(5) on that approval;

(b) the approval had been obtained by fraud or
     misrepresentation;

          (c) the applicant has been convicted of an offence under this
              Act;

(d) it is in the public interest to do so; or

       (e) the applicant has refused or failed to comply with an order
            of the Council made under subsection (6)(b) or
            subsection (3)(b) or with section 50.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (6) Subject to subsection (7), the Council may, in any case in which
it considers that no cause of sufficient gravity exists for revoking any
approval granted under subsection (3)(b) to an applicant for such
approval, by order —

(a) suspend the approval for a period not exceeding 6 months;

(b) impose on the applicant concerned a financial penalty of an
     amount not exceeding $100,000; or

          (c) publicly censure the applicant concerned.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

55                      Act 1987                              2020 Ed.

 (7) Before exercising any of its powers under subsection (5) or (6),
the Council must —

    (a) give to the applicant concerned written notice of its
         intention to do so; and

    (b) in the notice, call upon the applicant to show cause within
         such period as may be specified in the notice as to why the
         Council should not make any order under subsection (5) or
         (6), being a period of at least 7 days after the Council
         informs the applicant concerned of such intention.

(8) If the applicant —

    (a) fails to show cause within the period of time given or such
         extended period of time as the Council may allow; or

    (b) fails to show sufficient cause,

as to why the order under subsection (5) or (6) (as the case may be)
should not be made, the Council must give written notice to the
applicant concerned of the Council’s order made under the respective
subsection.

 (9) In any proceedings under subsection (5) or (6) in relation to the
conviction of an applicant for a criminal offence, the Council must
accept the applicant’s conviction as final and conclusive.

(10) Nothing in this section requires —

    (a) the LTA to apply to the Council for approval of bus fares —

    (i) for bus services provided under a public bus services
        contract (within the meaning of the Bus Services
        Industry Act 2015) to which the LTA is a party; or

    (ii) for bus services provided by the LTA when LTA
         operates the bus services; or

    (b) a public bus operator which provides a bus service
         according to the provisions of a public bus services
         contract to apply to the Council for approval of bus fares
         for the bus service specified in that contract.
                                                                           [24

                                                                                                     [31/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  56

Unilateral review of fares, etc.

48.—(1) The Council may, on its own initiative, review —

(a) the price of, or the pricing policy for —

          (i) any bus fare specified in a public bus services
              contract for any bus service;

          (ii) any bus fare approved under section 47 for bus
               services; or

          (iii) any train fare approved under section 47; or

       (b) the price of or pricing policy for any fare approved on
            review under this section.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) A review under this section of any fare or fare pricing policy
must take into account the matters referred to in section 47(2) and
comply with section 49.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a review under this section of
the price of, or the pricing policy for, any bus fare or train fare, may be
carried out for the purpose of promoting or facilitating —

(a) the integration of bus fares and train fares;

(b) arrangements for the through-carriage of passengers on bus
     services and train services provided by licensed bus
     operators (whether or not public bus operators) and
     licensed rapid transit system operators, respectively; and

          (c) the making by passengers of any journey which involves
              the use of —

          (i) the services of more than one such operator;

          (ii) more than one bus service or train service (whether
               or not operated by the same person); or

          (iii) both bus services and train services (whether or not
                operated by the same person).

                                                                                                  [31/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

57  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) On completing any review under subsection (1) in relation to the
price of, or pricing policy for, any bus fare or train fare, the Council
may —

    (a) add to, delete and substitute, or otherwise modify —

    (i) any part of its approval under section 47(3) or
        approval on review under this section; or

    (ii) any of the conditions for its approval under
         section 47(3), or approval on review under this
         section; or

    (b) set the price of or pricing policy for the bus fare to be
         specified in a public bus services contract for any bus
         service,

and the fare or fare pricing policy so added to, substituted or
otherwise modified, or set is, for the purposes of this Part, to be
regarded as approved under this section.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) In particular, a decision of the Council under subsection (4) in
relation to any bus fare for bus services provided by a public bus
operator, or any train fare for train services provided by a licensed
rapid transit system operator, may do any of the following:

    (a) add to the price of the fare for those bus services or train
         services, the carry‑forward amount available to the bus
         operator of those bus services or the rapid transit system
         operator of those train services, as the case may be;

    (b) require the bus operator or rapid transit system operator
         concerned and, in the case of bus services provided under
         public bus services contracts, the LTA, to reallocate
         revenues among themselves for the provision of their
         respective services, such as —

    (i) entering into an agreement with each other, or with
        the LTA or another bus operator or rapid transit
        system operator, on such terms and conditions as the
        Council may specify for the reallocation of revenues;
        and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.                    Act 1987                                58

          (ii) taking such steps to ensure that the agreement is
               given effect to;

          (c) require the public bus operator or licensed rapid transit
              system operator, or the LTA in the case of bus services
              provided under public bus services contracts, to grant fare
              concessions —

          (i) for any specified class of passengers of buses or
              trains used to provide those bus services or train
              services, as the case may be; or

          (ii) for bus or train journeys starting at a specified place
               or area or starting or ending at any specified time;

       (d) require every public bus operator and licensed rapid transit
            system operator who agree to provide services for the
            through‑carriage of passengers provided by them to
            publish, or cause to be published, the through fares for
            those services.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (6) Before making a decision under subsection (5), the Council
must —

(a) give notice of its proposed review under this section in the
     manner prescribed under subsection (7); and

(b) after giving such notice, consult —

          (i) the LTA; and

              (ii) such licensed bus operator or licensed rapid transit
                   system operator who would in the Council’s opinion
                   be affected by the decision.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (7) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the content,
form and procedure to be followed, and the methodology or other
matters to be included in connection with the preparation, review and
approval of fares or fare pricing policies under this section.

                                                                          [24AA

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

59                     Act 1987                               2020 Ed.

Fare review mechanism

 49.—(1) When approving under section 47, or approving on review
under section 48, the price of any bus fare or train fare, the Council
must do so only in accordance with the fare adjustment formula set
out in the Third Schedule.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) Where the bus fare charged by a public bus operator, or the train
fare charged by a licensed rapid transit system operator, or the bus
fare or train fare approved under section 47, or approved on review
under section 48, for any year is less than the maximum permitted
using the fare adjustment formula set out in the Third Schedule —

    (a) no public bus operator or licensed rapid transit system
         operator is entitled to demand a bus fare or train fare that
         includes that excess for that year; but

       (b) the excess may be claimed (in whole or in part) by the
            public bus operator or licensed rapid transit system
            operator concerned when applying for approval of any
            bus fare or train fare for the subsequent year or years, up to
            the maximum permitted using that fare adjustment
            formula.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) However, the Council may refuse to add the excess referred to in
subsection (2) to any bus fare or train fare with respect to a public bus
operator or licensed rapid transit system operator if the bus operator
or rapid transit system operator makes no claim under
subsection (2)(b) when applying under section 47 for approval of
the bus fare or train fare.

                                                                           [24AB

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Contribution of proportion of fare increases

 50.—(1) Where the Council —

       (a) approved under section 47 an increase in any bus fare for
            any bus service provided by a public bus operator or in any
            train fare for any train service; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  60

(b) approved on review under section 48 any bus fares or train
     fares that is an increase in any bus fare for any bus service
     provided by a public bus operator or in any train fare for
     any train service,

every public bus operator and every licensed rapid transit system
operator providing that bus service or train service (as the case may
be) must contribute to the Public Transport Fund an amount set by the
Council under this section.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) In setting the amount of contribution that a public bus operator
or a licensed rapid transit system operator must make under
subsection (1), the Council must have regard to the estimated
increase in revenue of the public bus operator or licensed rapid transit
system operator that is attributable to the increase in fares approved or
varied by the Council under section 47 or 48, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) The Council may set the contribution in one or more of the
following terms:

(a) a fixed amount or rate of the estimated increase in revenue
     that is attributable to the increase in bus fares or train fares
     approved or revised by the Council under section 47 or 48,
     respectively;

       (b) any other terms as the Council considers appropriate.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) The contributions that a public bus operator or a licensed rapid
transit system operator has to make under subsection (1) must be
made within the prescribed period after the effective date of any fare
increase so approved or revised under section 47 or 48 (as the case
may be) and thereafter, at the prescribed time in every subsequent
year until the Council in writing directs otherwise.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) Any unpaid contribution and any penalty or interest imposed
under regulations made under section 73(2)(d) may be recovered as a
Government debt in a court of competent jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

61  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

 (6) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the content,
form and procedure that must be followed by the Council in
connection with the setting of contributions for the purposes of
subsection (1).

                                                                           [24AC

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

                                    PART 9

                  PUBLIC TRANSPORT OFFICIALS

Appointment of public transport officials

 51.—(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, in
writing appoint any employee or class of employees of a public bus
operator, a licensed rapid transit system operator or the Council to be
public transport officials for the purposes of this Part.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) The Council may also appoint any employee or class of
employees of the LTA to be public transport officials for bus services
that the LTA operates in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) Subject to the directions of the Council under subsection (5), a
public transport official may require any individual who is travelling
or attempting to travel on, or has travelled on —

       (a) any bus that is part of a bus service provided by a public
            bus operator; or

       (b) any train that is part of a train service provided by a
            licensed rapid transit system,

to produce to the public transport official the individual’s ticket for
the journey for inspection and, if the ticket is a concession ticket,
evidence of the individual’s entitlement to the concession.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) Subject to the directions of the Council under subsection (5), a
public transport official may seize any ticket produced under
subsection (3) if the public transport official has reason to believe
that the ticket is an invalid ticket.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  62

 (5) The Council may give directions to public transport officials in
relation to the offering of an opportunity to pay penalty fees under
section 53 and the exercise of any of their powers under this Part.

                                                                             [24A

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Identification card to be produced

 52.—(1) Every public transport official when exercising any
powers under this Part must —

       (a) declare his or her office; and

       (b) on demand, produce to any person affected by the exercise
            of those powers such identification card as the Council
            may direct to be carried by a public transport official.

 (2) It is not an offence for any person to refuse to comply with any
request, demand or order made or given by any public transport
official if the public transport official refuses to declare his or her
office and produce his or her identification card, on demand being
made by the person.

                                                                             [24B

Penalty fee for bus fare or train fare evasion

 53.—(1) A public transport official who believes on reasonable
grounds that an individual —

       (a) who is travelling or attempting to travel or has travelled on
            a bus that is part of a bus service provided by a public bus
            operator; or

       (b) who is travelling or is attempting to travel (including
            entering a paid area within any railway premises) or has
            travelled on a train that is part of a train service provided by
            a licensed rapid transit system,

is evading or has evaded payment of the fare lawfully required of the
individual’s use of the bus or train (as the case may be) may, by
notice, offer the individual concerned an opportunity to pay a penalty
fee of the prescribed amount.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

63  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Every offer of an opportunity to pay a penalty fee is subject to
directions given by the Council under section 51(5).

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) An individual who is given an offer by a public transport official
of an opportunity to pay a penalty fee under subsection (1) may,
within the prescribed period and in accordance with the prescribed
procedure, appeal to the Council to hear such appeal against the offer.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) On receiving an appeal under subsection (3), the Council, or an
officer designated by the Council to hear the appeal, may —

    (a) confirm the offer by the public transport official, and vary
         the time within which the penalty fee must be paid; or

    (b) cancel the offer by the public transport official the making
         of which is, in the opinion of the Council or officer, not
         equitable,

and every decision on appeal is final.

                                                              [31/2015]

 (5) An individual who is offered by a public transport official an
opportunity to pay a penalty fee may accept the offer by paying the
penalty fee, or by arranging for another person to pay the penalty
fee —

    (a) to a person directed by the public transport official and
         authorised by the Council to receive payments of penalty
         fees; or

    (b) to the Council itself,

in the manner and within the time determined by the Council or under
subsection (4)(a) if an appeal under subsection (3) is made.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (6) An offer of an opportunity to pay a penalty fee is withdrawn if
the penalty fee is not paid within the time referred to in subsection (5).

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (7) On receiving payment of the penalty fee under subsection (5),
the Council must give or cause to be given to the individual a receipt
acknowledging that payment.

                                                                                                [31/2015; 20/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  64

 (8) An individual who pays (by himself or herself or by
arrangement with another) a penalty fee in accordance with
subsection (5) cannot be prosecuted for an offence under
section 54 or offered composition under section 67.

                                                                             [24C

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Bus fare or train fare evasion

 54.—(1) An individual who is evading or has evaded payment of
the fare in relation to —

       (a) a bus that is part of a bus service provided by a public bus
            operator; or

       (b) a train that is part of a train service provided by a licensed
            rapid transit system,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (c) to a fine not exceeding $1,000; and

       (d) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (1) if the person who is convicted, or found guilty, of an
offence under that provision (called the current offence) has been
convicted or found guilty, whether before, on or after 29 February
2016, of a qualifying offence before the date on which the person is
convicted or found guilty of the current offence.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) In subsection (2), a qualifying offence means —

       (a) an offence under subsection (1); or

       (b) an offence under section 24C(5) of this Act as in force
            before 29 February 2016.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) For the purposes of this section and section 53, an individual
evades payment of a fare in relation to a bus or train if the
individual —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

65  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) when attempting to travel, for an intended journey on the
         bus or train (including entering a paid area within any
         railway premises), without reasonable excuse —

    (i) does not pay the fare lawfully required;

    (ii) if using a smartcard ticket, does not tap in;

    (iii) attempts to travel on a concession fare without being
          entitled to the concession; or

    (iv) attempts to travel on an invalid ticket;

    (b) in relation to all or part of a journey travelled on the bus or
         train, without reasonable excuse —

    (i) does not pay the fare lawfully required;

    (ii) if using a smartcard ticket, does not tap in or tap out;

    (iii) travels on a concession fare without being entitled to
          the concession; or

    (iv) travels on an invalid ticket; or

       (c) without reasonable excuse, does or omits to do any other
            act that is prescribed in relation to any journey or intended
            travel on a bus or train.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) For the purposes of this section and section 53, an individual is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, to evade payment of a fare in
relation to a bus or train if the individual, when requested by a public
transport official —

    (a) fails to produce to the public transport official any ticket
         for the individual’s journey;

    (b) produces to the public transport official a concession ticket
         for the individual’s journey and then fails to produce
         evidence of the individual’s entitlement to the concession;

    (c) produces to the public transport official a smartcard ticket
        for the individual’s journey that, upon inspection by the
        official using a smartcard reader, is an invalid ticket, and
        then fails to produce a valid ticket for the journey; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  66

(d) produces to the public transport official a ticket that is not a
     smartcard for the individual’s journey that, upon inspection
     by the official, is an invalid ticket, and then fails to produce
     a valid ticket for the journey.
                                                                   [24CA

                                                                                                 [31/2015]

Evidentiary provisions in proceedings for bus fare or train fare
evasion

 55.—(1) If a fact relating to a smartcard ticket is relevant in
proceedings relating to an offence under section 54, evidence of that
fact as indicated or determined by —

(a) a prescribed device that was used in the prescribed manner
     (if any); or

(b) a printed document that was produced by a prescribed
     process,

is admissible in evidence in those proceedings.

                                                                    [31/2015]

 (2) For the purposes of this section, a fact relates to a smartcard
ticket if it relates to —

(a) the smartcard ticket itself, including its type, identifying
     numbers and manner of acquisition;

(b) the holder of the smartcard ticket;

          (c) the existence, or possible existence, of an entitlement to
              use a bus service or train service; or

(d) the use of the smartcard ticket.

                                                                    [31/2015]

 (3) A certificate purporting to be issued by a public transport
official who used a smartcard reader to read, copy or transfer
information from a smartcard ticket produced to the public transport
official for inspection certifying as to the information read, copied or
transferred from the smartcard ticket in relation to all or any of the
following matters:

(a) the smartcard ticket number;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

67  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the smartcard ticket type;

    (c) the name of the smartcard ticket holder;

    (d) the use of the smartcard ticket;

    (e) the entitlement to use a bus service or train service,

is admissible in evidence in any proceedings relating to an offence
under section 54.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (4) Subject to subsection (10), if a certificate is issued under
subsection (3) in respect of a smartcard ticket, it is presumed for the
purposes of any proceedings relating to an offence under section 54
that the smartcard ticket had accurately recorded and discharged the
information recorded, copied or transferred from it by the smartcard
reader.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (5) Subject to subsection (10), if the prosecution, in proceedings
relating to an offence under section 54 serves on the accused, by the
required time, a copy of a certificate referred to in subsection (3), the
certificate is conclusive proof of —

    (a) the facts and matters stated in that certificate;

    (b) the fact that the smartcard reader used was a prescribed
         device;

    (c) the fact that the smartcard reader was used in the
        prescribed manner (if any); and

       (d) the fact that the smartcard reader had operated correctly.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (6) Subject to subsection (10), if the prosecution in proceedings
relating to an offence under section 54 serves on the accused, within
the required time, a notice setting out the presumptions set out in
subsection (4), the facts that are the subject of the presumptions are to
be taken to have been conclusively proved.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (7) A certificate purporting to be issued by a person authorised by
the Chief Executive certifying that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  68

(a) at all relevant times the prescribed devices specified in the
     certificate had operated correctly and had indicated or
     determined the facts (if any) stated in the certificate; or

(b) at all relevant times, the printed documents specified in the
     certificate had been produced by a prescribed process,

is admissible in evidence in any proceedings relating to an offence
under section 54.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (8) Subject to subsection (10), if the prosecution in proceedings
relating to an offence under section 54 serves on the accused, within
the required time, a copy of a certificate referred to in subsection (7),
the certificate is conclusive proof —

(a) that the person giving the certificate was authorised to do
     so;

(b) in the case of a certificate under subsection (7)(a), of —

          (i) the fact that at all relevant times the prescribed
              devices specified in the certificate had operated
              correctly; and

          (ii) the facts (if any) stated in the certificate as indicated
               or determined by the prescribed devices; and

          (c) in the case of a certificate under subsection (7)(b), of —

          (i) the fact that at all relevant times the printed
              documents specified in the certificate had been
              produced by a prescribed process; and

              (ii) the facts indicated or determined by the printed
                   documents.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (9) In this section, “required time” means no less than 56 days
before the hearing for the relevant offence under section 54.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (10) The accused in any proceedings relating to an offence under
section 54 may give written notice to the prosecution at least 28 days
before the hearing, or any shorter period ordered by the court or
agreed to by the prosecution, that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

69  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) the accused requires the person giving a certificate referred
         to in subsection (3) or (7) to be called as a witness;

    (b) the accused intends to adduce evidence in rebuttal of any
         fact or matter contained in the certificate; or

       (c) the accused intends to adduce evidence in rebuttal of any
            fact that is the subject of a presumption set out in
            subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (11) To avoid doubt, nothing in this section prevents the
prosecution adducing evidence to explain any fact or matter
contained in a certificate referred to in this section.

                                                                           [24CB

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Offence of non-payment of ride-hail fare or street-hail fare

 56.—(1) A passenger of a taxi commits an offence if —

       (a) the passenger is transported on a journey within or partly
            within Singapore in the taxi provided in the course of a
            street‑hail service; and

       (b) the passenger, without reasonable excuse, fails or refuses,
            at the end of the journey and after a demand by the driver of
            the taxi, to pay the street‑hail fare for the journey which is
            collectible under this Act.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (2) A passenger of a bookable vehicle commits an offence if —

       (a) the passenger is transported on a journey within or partly
            within Singapore in the bookable vehicle provided in the
            course of an on‑demand passenger transport service to
            which a ride‑hail service relates; and

       (b) the passenger, without reasonable excuse, fails or refuses,
            at the end of the journey and after a demand by the driver of
            the bookable vehicle, to pay the ride‑hail fare for the
            journey which is collectible under this Act.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (3) A passenger who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or
(2) shall be liable on conviction either —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  70

(a) to a fine not exceeding $1,000; or

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (4) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (1) if the person who is convicted, or found guilty, of an
offence under that provision (called the current offence) has been
convicted or found guilty, before the date on which the person is
convicted or found guilty of the current offence, of any of the
following offences:

(a) an offence under subsection (1);

       (b) an offence under section 24D as in force before 30 October
            2020.

                                                                                                           [20/2019]

 (5) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (2) if the person who is convicted, or found guilty, of an
offence under that provision (called the current offence) has been
convicted or found guilty, before the date on which the person is
convicted or found guilty of the current offence, of any of the
following offences:

(a) an offence under subsection (2);

(b) an offence under section 24D as in force before 30 October
     2020.
                                                                     [24D

                                                                                                 [20/2019]

Power to require evidence of identity

 57.—(1) Any individual who is required by a public transport
official to pay a penalty fee must —

(a) give his or her name and address and any other proof of
     identity; and

(b) furnish any other particulars,

that the public transport official may require.

                                                                    [20/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

71  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) Any individual who refuses to furnish any information required
of him or her by any public transport official under subsection (1) or
wilfully misstates such information shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                             [24E

Powers of arrest

 58.—(1) A public transport official or police officer may arrest
without warrant any individual whom he or she has reason to believe
has committed an offence under this Part, if the name and address of
the individual are unknown to him or her and —

       (a) the individual declines to give his or her name or address;
            or

       (b) there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name or
            address, if given.

 (2) An individual arrested under subsection (1) may be detained
until his or her name and address are correctly ascertained.

 (3) An individual arrested under subsection (2) must not be
detained longer than is necessary for bringing him or her before a
court.

                                                                             [24F

                                   PART 10

                             INVESTIGATIONS

Investigation into affairs of licensee

 59.—(1) The Council may appoint one or more inspectors to
investigate the affairs of a licensee or such aspects of the affairs of a
licensee as are specified in the instrument of appointment.

 (2) An inspector appointed by the Council may, and if so directed
by the Council must, make interim reports to the Council and on the
conclusion of the investigation, the inspector must report the
inspector’s opinion on or in relation to the affairs that the inspector
has been appointed to investigate together with the facts upon which
the inspector’s opinion is based to the Council.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                    Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.            Act 1987                                        72

 (3) A copy of the report must be forwarded by the Council to the
registered office of the licensee.

 (4) The Council may, if it is of the opinion that it is necessary in the
public interest to do so, cause the report to be printed and published.

(5) In this Part —

“affairs”, in relation to a licensee, includes —

          (a) the promotion, formation, membership, control,
               trading, dealings, business and property of the
               licensee;

          (b) the ownership of shares in, debentures of and
               interests made available by the licensee;

          (c) the ascertainment of the persons who are or have
              been financially interested in the success or failure or
              apparent success or failure of the licensee or are or
              have been able to control or materially to influence
              the policy of the licensee; and

          (d) the circumstances under which a person acquired or
               disposed of or became entitled to acquire or dispose
               of shares in, debentures of or interests made available
               by the licensee;

“officer or agent”, in relation to a licensee, includes —

          (a) a director, banker, solicitor or an auditor of the
               licensee;

          (b) a person who at any time —

          (i) has been a person referred to in paragraph (a);
              or

          (ii) has been otherwise employed or appointed by
               the licensee;

          (c) a person who —

          (i) has in the person’s possession any property of
              the licensee;

          (ii) is indebted to the licensee; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

73  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    (iii) is capable of giving information concerning the
          promotion, formation, trading, dealings, affairs
          or property of the licensee; and

    (d) where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting or
         believing that a person is a person referred to in
         paragraph (c), that person.
                                                                  [24G

Procedure and powers of inspectors

 60.—(1) If an inspector appointed to investigate the affairs of a
licensee which is a company thinks it necessary for the purposes of
the investigation to investigate also the affairs of any other company
which is or has at any relevant time been deemed to be or have been
related to the licensee by virtue of section 6 of the Companies
Act 1967, the inspector has power to do so.

 (2) The inspector must report to the Council on the affairs of the
other company so far as the inspector thinks the results of the
investigation of the other company are relevant to the investigation of
the affairs of the licensee.

 (3) The licensee and every officer or agent of the licensee must, if
required by an inspector appointed under this Part, produce to the
inspector all books and documents in its, his or her custody or power
and must give to the inspector all assistance in connection with the
investigation which it, he or she is reasonably able to give.

 (4) An inspector may, by written notice, require the licensee and
any officer or agent of the licensee to appear for examination on oath
or affirmation (which the inspector is authorised to administer) in
relation to the business of the licensee.

 (5) The notice under subsection (4) may require the production of
all books and documents in the custody or under the control of a
licensee or any officer or agent of the licensee.

 (6) An inspector who pursuant to this section requires the
production of all books and documents in the custody or power or
under the control of an officer or agent of any licensee —

       (a) may take possession of all such books and documents;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  74

(b) may retain all such books and documents for such time as
     the inspector considers to be necessary for the purpose of
     the investigation; and

          (c) must permit the licensee to have access at all reasonable
              times to all such books and documents so long as they
              remain in the inspector’s possession.

 (7) A licensee or any officer or agent of the licensee who fails to
comply with a requirement of any notice issued under subsection (4)
or fails or refuses to answer any question which is put to it, him or her
by an inspector with respect to the affairs of the licensee shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (8) A person who is or has formerly been an officer or agent of a
licensee is not entitled to refuse to answer any question which is
relevant or material to the investigation on the ground that the
person’s answer might tend to incriminate the person.

 (9) If a person referred to in subsection (8) claims that the answer to
any question might incriminate the person and, but for that
subsection, the person would have been entitled to refuse to answer
the question, the answer to the question must not be used in any
subsequent criminal proceedings except in the case of a charge
against the person for making a false statement.

 (10) Subject to subsection (8), a person is entitled to refuse to
answer a question on the ground that the answer might tend to
incriminate the person.

 (11) An inspector may cause notes of any examination under this
Part to be recorded and reduced to writing, to be read to or by and
signed by the person examined.

 (12) Any such signed notes may, except in the case of any answer
which that person would not have been required to give but for
subsection (8), thereafter be used in evidence in any legal proceedings
against that person.

                                                                             [24H

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

75  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

Report of inspector to be admissible in evidence

 61. A copy of the report of any inspector appointed under this Part
certified as correct by the Council is admissible in any legal
proceedings as evidence of the opinion of the inspector and of the
facts upon which the inspector’s opinion is based in relation to any
matter contained in the report.

                                                                              [24I

Costs of investigations

 62. The expenses of and incidental to an investigation by an
inspector appointed under this Part must be paid out of the funds of
the Council.

                                                                              [24J

Penalty for delaying or obstructing investigation

 63.—(1) Any person who with intent to defeat the purposes of this
Part, or to delay or obstruct the carrying out of an investigation under
this Part —

       (a) destroys, conceals or alters any book, document or record
            of or relating to a licensee; or

       (b) sends or attempts to send or conspires with any other
            person to send out of Singapore any such book, document
            or record or any property of any description belonging to or
            in the disposition or under the control of a licensee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) If in any prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) it is
proved that the person charged with the offence —

       (a) has destroyed, concealed or altered any book, document or
            record of or relating to the licensee; or

       (b) has sent or attempted to send or conspired to send out of
            Singapore any book, document or record or any property of
            any description belonging to or in the disposition or under
            the control of the licensee,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                  76

the onus of proving that in so doing the person had not acted with
intent to defeat the purposes of this Part, or to delay or obstruct the
carrying out of an investigation under this Part lies on the person.

                                                                             [24K

                                    PART 11

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Penalty for unauthorised ticket payment service

 64. Any person who contravenes section 28(1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $5,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                             [25A

                                                                                                           [30/2015]

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 65.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                 Public Transport Council

77                     Act 1987                               2020 Ed.

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of such a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) Regulations may provide for the application of any provision of
this section, with such modifications as the Council considers
appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                             [25B

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                       Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.                 Act 1987                                   78

Jurisdiction of court

 66. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

                                                                             [25C

Composition of offences

 67.—(1) The Council, or any officer of the Council or the LTA
authorised by the Council, may compound any offence under this Act
or any regulations made under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $10,000.

                                   [Act 17 of 2025 wef 23/09/2026]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [26

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

Recovery of sums payable

 68.—(1) Where any fee, contribution, financial penalty or other
sum payable under this Act remains due and unpaid by a licensee, the
Council may require the licensee to pay interest thereon at the
prescribed rate, and any such fee, contribution, financial penalty or
other sum, and any interest thereon, may be recovered by the Council
in any court of competent jurisdiction as if they were simple contract
debts.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

79  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) The licensee’s liability to pay is not affected by the licensee’s
licence ceasing (for any reason) to be in force.

                                                                             [26A

Moneys recovered or collected by Council

 69.—(1) All moneys recovered, and fees, charges, security deposits
and performance bonds collected under this Act, other than licence
fees and financial penalties, must be paid into and form part of the
moneys of the Council.

                                                                                                           [31/2015]

 (2) All licence fees and financial penalties collected under this Act
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                             [26B

Exemption

 70. The Council may by order in the Gazette and subject to such
conditions as it may impose, exempt any person or class of persons
from all or any of the provisions of this Act or any regulations made
under this Act.

                                                                               [27

Service of documents

 71.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act or any regulations made under this Act to be served on any
person, and any summons issued by a court against any person in
connection with any offence under this Act or the regulations may be
served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of the person’s family or household at the
            person’s last known place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or place of business in an envelope addressed to
            the person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or place
            of business; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  80

(d) in the case of an incorporated company, a partnership or a
     body of persons —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
              of the company, partnership or body of persons at its
              registered office or principal place of business; or

          (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
               company, partnership or body of persons at its
               registered office or principal place of business.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons (as the case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be
delivered and, in proving service of the notice, order, document or
summons, it is sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the
same was properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

                                                                             [27A

Amendment of Schedule

 72.—(1) The Minister may at any time, by order in the Gazette,
amend the Third Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such incidental, consequential or supplementary provision as
may be necessary or expedient.

                                                                             [27B

Regulations

 73.—(1) The Council may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for, or in respect of, every purpose which is considered by
the Council necessary or expedient for carrying out the provisions of
this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Council may make
regulations for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to prescribe the manner and form in which applications for
            ticket payment service licences are to be made, the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

81  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    documents to be submitted in support of such applications
    and the form of such licences;

    (b) to prescribe a scale of fees for and ticket payment service
         licences;

    (c) to prescribe the manner and form in which applications for
        the approval of bus fares or train fares, or a pricing policy
        for bus services or train services, are to be made and the
        documents to be submitted in support of such applications;

    (d) to prescribe the date and manner by which any contribution
         is payable under section 50 to the Public Transport Fund,
         the penalties for the late payment of any such contribution
         and to impose interest for late payment of any such
         contribution or penalty;

    (e) to require returns to be made by persons by whom
        contributions under section 50 are payable, and the
        conditions relating to the making of such returns;

    (f) to regulate the procedure of the Council, to the extent not
        inconsistent with the Public Sector (Governance)
        Act 2018;

    (g) to prescribe the powers and duties of the officers and
         employees of the Council;

    (h) to control and regulate the conduct of the officers and
         employees of the Council;

    (i) to prescribe the offences under this Act that may be
        compounded under section 67;

    (j) to prescribe devices for the purposes of section 55 and the
        manner of using (including testing) those devices;

    (k) to prescribe the processes for loading information onto a
        prescribed device or a prescribed computer system,
        copying or transferring information between prescribed
        devices or between a prescribed device and a prescribed
        computer system, storing of information by a prescribed
        device or prescribed computer system and producing a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                  82

          printed record of information stored by a prescribed device
          or prescribed computer system;

        (l) to prescribe anything that is required to be prescribed under
            this Act.

                                                                                     [30/2015; 31/2015; 5/2018]

 (3) The Council may, in making any regulations, provide that any
contravention of, or failure or neglect to comply with, any regulation
shall be an offence and may prescribe a fine with which such offence
shall be punishable but so that no such fine shall exceed for any
one offence the sum of $5,000.

                                                                               [28

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 3

             CONSTITUTION AND PROCEEDINGS OF COUNCIL
Constitution of Council

 1.—(1) The Council consists of such members as may be appointed by the
Minister.

 (2) The Minister may appoint the Chief Executive to be a member of the
Council.

Appointment of Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson
 2.—(1) The Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson must be appointed by the
Minister from among its members.
 (2) The Deputy Chairperson may, subject to such directions as may be given by
the Chairperson, exercise all or any of the powers exercisable by the Chairperson
under this Act.

Temporary Chairperson or Deputy Chairperson
 3. The Minister may appoint any member to be a temporary Chairperson or
temporary Deputy Chairperson during the temporary incapacity from illness or
otherwise or during the temporary absence from Singapore of the Chairperson or
the Deputy Chairperson, as the case may be.

Revocation of appointment
 4. The Minister may revoke the appointment of the Chairperson, the Deputy

Chairperson or any appointed member without assigning any reason.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

83  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Tenure of office of appointed member

 5. The Chairperson, the Deputy Chairperson or an appointed member, unless his
or her appointment is revoked by the Minister or unless he or she resigns during
his or her term of office, holds office for such period as the Minister may
determine and is eligible for reappointment.

Filling of vacancies

 6. If an appointed member resigns, dies or has his or her appointment revoked
before the expiry of the term for which he or she has been appointed, the Minister
may appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the residue of the term for which his or
her predecessor was appointed.

Salaries, etc., payable to members

 7. There are to be paid to the Chairperson, the Deputy Chairperson and other
members, out of the funds of the Council, such salaries, fees and allowances as the
Minister may determine.

Meetings of Council

 8.—(1) The Council must meet for the despatch of business at such times and
places as the Chairperson may appoint.

 (2) At every meeting of the Council, one half of the number of members shall
form a quorum.

 (3) A decision at a meeting of the Council is adopted by a simple majority of the
members present and voting except that in the case of an equality of votes the
Chairperson or member presiding has a casting vote in addition to his or her
original vote.

 (4) The Chairperson or in his or her absence the Deputy Chairperson presides at
meetings of the Council.

 (5) Where both the Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson are absent at a
meeting, such member as the members present may elect presides at that meeting.

 (6) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Council may make rules to regulate its own procedures generally
and, in particular, regarding the holding of meetings, the notice to be given of such
meetings, the proceedings at those meetings, the keeping of minutes and the
custody, production and inspection of such minutes.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
          Public Transport Council

2020 Ed.                         Act 1987                           84

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Council may act despite vacancy

9. The Council may act despite any vacancy in its membership.

                                                                      [31/2015; 5/2018; S 59/98; S 48/2003]

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                   Sections 49(1) and (2) and 72

                           FARE ADJUSTMENT FORMULA

 1. The fare adjustment formula is 0.5 cCPI + 0.4 WI + 0.1 EI − 0.1% + 1.1%,
where —

        (a) for an approval mentioned in section 49(1) in 2025 —

                  (i) cCPI is the change in Core Consumer Price Index between the
                      first 18-month period and the second 18-month period;

                 (ii) WI is the change in National Average Monthly Earnings
                      between the first 18-month period and the second 18-month
                      period, adjusted to account for any change in the employer’s
                      Central Provident Fund contribution rate as specified in the
                      Central Provident Fund Act 1953; and

                (iii) EI is the change in Energy Index for electricity and fuel
                      between the first 18-month period and the second 18-month
                      period; and

                                                                                    [S 669/2025 wef 09/10/2025]

        (b) for an approval mentioned in section 49(1) in 2026 or any subsequent
             year —

                  (i) cCPI is the change in Core Consumer Price Index between the
                      relevant first 12-month period and the second 12-month period
                      that is immediately before that first 12-month period;

                 (ii) WI is the change in National Average Monthly Earnings
                      between the relevant first 12-month period and the second 12-
                      month period that is immediately before that first 12-month
                      period, adjusted to account for any change in the employer’s
                      Central Provident Fund contribution rate as specified in the
                      Central Provident Fund Act 1953; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
    Public Transport Council

85  Act 1987                                                  2020 Ed.

    THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

               (iii) EI is the change in Energy Index for electricity and fuel
                     between the relevant first 12-month period and the second 12-
                     month period that is immediately before that first 12-month
                     period.

                                                                                  [S 669/2025 wef 09/10/2025]

       (c) [Deleted by S 669/2025 wef 09/10/2025]

                                                                                  [S 669/2025 wef 09/10/2025]

2. In this Schedule —

    “first 12-month period” means the period starting on 1 July of year N – 1 and
       ending on and including 30 June of year N;

    “first 18-month period” means the period starting on 1 January 2024 and
       ending on and including 30 June 2025;

    “second 12-month period” means the period starting on 1 July of year N – 2
       and ending on and including 30 June of year N – 1;

    “second 18-month period” means the period starting on 1 January 2023 and
       ending on and including 30 June 2024;

    “year N” means the year in respect of which either or both the following
       occurs:

    (a) a new application for the Council’s approval under section 47 is
         made;

    (b) the Council undertakes a new review under section 48.

                                                                   [S 669/2025 wef 09/10/2025]

                                                                   [S 798/2022 wef 10/10/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                   PUBLIC TRANSPORT COUNCIL

                                   ACT 1987

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                        PART 1
OMNIBUS SERVICES LICENSING AUTHORITY ORDINANCE, 1956

                           (ORDINANCE 13 OF 1956)

1. Ordinance 13 of 1956 — Omnibus Services Licensing Authority
                                    Ordinance, 1956

Bill                  : 46/1956

First Reading         : 7 March 1956

Second Reading        : 4 April 1956

Notice of Amendments  : 4 April 1956

Third Reading         : 4 April 1956

Commencement          : 16 April 1956

2. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               ii

Commencement   : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                     with the Schedule)

3. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                   Order, 1959

Commencement   : 3 June 1959

                                PART 2
      BUS SERVICES LICENSING AUTHORITY ACT

          (CHAPTER 31, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

4. Act 5 of 1971 — Bus Services Licensing Authority Act, 1971

Bill           : 60/1970

First Reading  : 30 December 1970

Second and Third Readings : 11 January 1971

Commencement   : 1 March 1971

5. Act 27 of 1973 — Bus Services Licensing Authority (Amendment) Act,
                           1973

Bill           : 22/1973

First Reading  : 11 July 1973

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 1973

Commencement   : 1 September 1973

6. Act 21 of 1978 — Bus Services Licensing Authority (Amendment) Act,
                           1978

Bill           : 13/1978

First Reading  : 13 March 1978

Second and Third Readings : 7 April 1978

Commencement   : 26 April 1978

7. 1985 Revised Edition — Bus Services Licensing Authority Act
                                    (Chapter 31)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               iii

                                  PART 3
           PUBLIC TRANSPORT COUNCIL ACT 1987

                      (2020 REVISED EDITION)

8. Act 18 of 1987 — Public Transport Council Act 1987

Bill           : 9/1987

First Reading  : 20 May 1987

Second and Third Readings : 28 July 1987

Commencement   : 14 August 1987

9. 1988 Revised Edition — Public Transport Council Act (Chapter 259B)

Operation      : 30 April 1988

10. G.N. No. S 432/1994 — Public Transport Council (Amendment of First
                                    Schedule) Order 1994

Commencement   : 7 March 1994

11. Act 29 of 1995 — Rapid Transit Systems Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 45 read with paragraph 4 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 25/1995

First Reading  : 7 July 1995

Second and Third Readings : 7 August 1995

Commencement   : 1 September 1995 (section 45 read
                     with paragraph 4 of the Schedule)

12. G.N. No. S 59/1998 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of First
                                 Schedule) Order 1998

Commencement   : 6 February 1998

13. Act 29 of 1999 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 1999

Bill           : 25/1999

First Reading  : 6 July 1999

Second and Third Readings : 4 August 1999

Commencement   : 28 August 1999

14. 2000 Revised Edition — Public Transport Council Act (Chapter 259B)

Operation      : 1 July 2000

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               iv

15. Act 28 of 2001 — Road Traffic (Amendment) Act 2001
     (Amendment made by section 20 of the above Act)

Bill           : 27/2001

First Reading  : 11 July 2001

Second and Third Readings : 25 July 2001

Commencement   : 10 September 2001 (section 20)

16. G.N. No. S 48/2003 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of First
                                 Schedule) Order 2003

Commencement   : 1 February 2003

17. Act 37 of 2005 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill           : 25/2005

First Reading  : 19 September 2005

Second and Third Readings : 17 October 2005

Commencement   : 3 April 2006 (except section 14)
                     1 July 2008 (section 14)

18. Act 2 of 2007 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 13 of the above Act)

Bill           : 14/2006

First Reading  : 8 November 2006

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2007

Commencement   : 1 March 2007 (section 13)

19. G.N. No. S 386/2008 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2008

Commencement   : 31 July 2008

20. Act 17 of 2008 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 2008

Bill           : 14/2008

First Reading  : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 2008

Commencement   : 11 September 2008

21. 2012 Revised Edition — Public Transport Council Act (Chapter 259B)

Operation      : 31 March 2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
               v

22. G.N. No. S 228/2014 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Public Transport
                                    Council Act) (Rectification) Order 2014

Operation      : 31 March 2012

23. G.N. No. S 259/2014 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2014

Commencement   : 11 November 2013

24. G.N. No. S 456/2015 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2015

Commencement   : 12 November 2014

25. G.N. No. S 511/2015 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) (No. 2) Order 2015

Commencement   : 25 August 2015

26. Act 31 of 2015 — Public Transport Council (Amendment) Act 2015

Bill           : 27/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement   : 8 January 2016 (sections 3(b), 4, 5,
                     6(b), 7, 8, 9, 10, 22 and 23)
                     22 January 2016 (except sections 3(b)
                     and (f), 4, 5, 6(b), 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 17,
                     18, 22, 23, 24 and 25(b))
                     29 February 2016 (sections 17 and 18)
                     1 April 2016 (sections 3(f), 11, 24 and
                     25(b))

27. Act 30 of 2015 — Bus Services Industry Act 2015
     (Amendments made by section 53 of the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2015

First Reading  : 13 July 2015

Second and Third Readings : 18 August 2015

Commencement   : 22 January 2016 (section 53)

28. G.N. No. S 420/2016 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2016

Commencement   : 7 September 2016

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                      vi

29. G.N. No. S 473/2017 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2017

Commencement          : 28 August 2017

30. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 93 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 93)

31. G.N. No. S 509/2018 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2018

Commencement          : 30 August 2018

32. G.N. No. S 609/2019 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2019

Commencement          : 3 September 2019

33. G.N. No. S 743/2020 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2020

Commencement          : 3 September 2020

34. Act 20 of 2019 — Point-to-Point Passenger Transport Industry Act 2019
     (Amendments made by sections 58, 59 and 60 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 14/2019

First Reading         : 8 July 2019

Second and Third Readings : 6 August 2019

Commencement          : 30 October 2020 (sections 58, 59 and
                            60)

35. G.N. No. S 799/2021 — Public Transport Council Act (Amendment of
                                    Third Schedule) Order 2021

Commencement          : 29 October 2021

36. 2020 Revised Edition — Public Transport Council
                                     Act 1987

Operation             : 31 December 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
                      vii

37. G.N. No. S 798/2022 — Public Transport Council Act 1987 (Amendment
                                   of Third Schedule) Order 2022

Date of commencement  : 10 October 2022

38. G.N. No. S 629/2023 — Public Transport Council Act 1987 (Amendment
                                   of Third Schedule) Order 2023

Date of commencement  : 13 September 2023

39. G.N. No. S 690/2024 — Public Transport Council Act 1987 (Amendment
                                   of Third Schedule) Order 2024

Date of commencement  : 4 September 2024

40. G.N. No. S 669/2025 — Public Transport Council Act 1987 (Amendment
                                   of Third Schedule) Order 2025

Date of commencement  : 9 October 2025

41. Act 17 of 2025 — Transport Sector (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                             2025

Bill                  : 12/2025

First Reading         : 26 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 2025

Commencement          : 23 September 2026

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
.                                viii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
     COMPARATIVE TABLE

PUBLIC TRANSPORT COUNCIL
               ACT 1987

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
4                          3A
5                          4
6                          5
7                          5A
8                          5B
—
9                             (5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
10                         5C
11                         5D
—                          6
12                         7 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
13                         8
14                         9
15                         10
16                         10A
17                         10B
PART 4                     11
18                         PART IIIA
19                         11A
20                         11B
21                         11C
22                         11D
[Omitted as spent]         11E—(1)

                              (2)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
        2020 Ed.  ii

23                                   2012 Ed.
24                 11F
25                 11G
26                 11H
27                 11I
—                  11J
—                  PART IV
—                  12 [Repealed by Act 30 of 2015]
—                  13 [Repealed by Act 37 of 2005]
—                  14 [Repealed by Act 30 of 2015]
—                  15 [Repealed by Act 30 of 2015]
—                  PART IVA
—                  16 [Repealed by Act 30 of 2015]
—                  17 [Repealed by Act 30 of 2015]
PART 5             18 [Repealed by Act 30 of 2015]
28                 PART IVB
29                 19
30                 20
31                 21
PART 6             22
32                 PART IVC
33                 22A
PART 7             22B
34                 PART IVD
35                 22C
36                 22D
37                 22E
38                 22F
                   22G

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
         2020 Ed.  iii        2012 Ed.

39                   22H
40                   22I
PART 8               PART V
41                   23

   (2)                  (1A)
   (3)                  (2)
   (4)                  (2A)
   (5)                  (2B)
   (6)                  (3)
   (7)                  (4)
   (8)                  (4A)
   (9)                  (5)
   (10)                 (6)
42                   23A
43                   23B
44                   23C
45                   23D
46                   23E
47                   24
   (4)                  (3A)
   (5)                  (4)
   (6)                  (5)
   (7)                  (6)
   (8)                  (7)
   (9)                  (8)
   (10)                 (9)
48                   24AA
49                   24AB

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
         2020 Ed.  iv

50                                     2012 Ed.
PART 9               24AC
51                   PART VA
52                   24A
53                   24B
54                   24C
55                   24CA
56                   24CB
57                   24D
58                   24E
PART 10              24F
59                   PART VB
60                   24G
61                   24H
62                   24I
63                   24J
PART 11              24K
—                    PART VI
64                   25 [Repealed by Act 5 of 2018]
65                   25A
66                   25B
67                   25C
68                   26
69                   26A
70                   26B
71                   27
72                   27A
73                   27B
                     28

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/9/2026
