THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           WIDOWS’ AND ORPHANS’ PENSION
                               ACT 1904

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
             2020 Ed.

Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
             Act 1904

Section                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.   Short title
     2A.  Interpretation
     3.   Pensions, etc., to be charged on Pension Fund
     4.   Contributions to be credited to Pension Fund
     5.   Abatements from salaries to be made
     6.   Period for which abatement shall be made
     7.   Abatement during period of enemy occupation
     8.   Contributor retiring under certain laws
     9.   Exercise of option
   10.    Contributions where official income is reduced
   11.    Contributor retiring on account of ill health
   12.    Contributor retired on pension
   13.    Interest of contributors retiring without pension
          Refund of contribution to bachelor or widower without children
   14.    of a pensionable age
   15.    Provisions consequent upon an officer being removed
          Contributor transferred to other Government employment in
   16.    country where the law provides for granting pensions to widows
   17.    and children
   18.    Contributor to Oversea Superannuation Scheme
   19.    Definition of service
   20.    Officers transferred from Malaysia
   21.    Arrears of contribution to Malaysia pension scheme
          Officers contributing to approved schemes
   22.    Rules for payment when a contributor on leave of absence or
   23.    pensioner is paid by the Crown Agents
   24.    Register of contributions to be kept
   25.    Penalty for non-compliance with section 22
   26.    Calculation of pensions
   27.    Who not entitled to pension
          Pension, when to commence
          When widow’s pension ceases

          1

             31.12.2021
         Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2        Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

Section  Dissolution of marriage
   28.   When children’s pensions cease
   29.   Pension of widow where no child by previous marriage of
   30.   contributor
         Pension of child where no widow alive at death of contributor
   31.   Pensions of children by 2 or more marriages where no widow
   32.   alive at death of contributor
         Where contributor dies leaving a widow and a child or children
   33.   by a previous marriage
         Where contributor dies leaving a widow and children by 2 or
   34.   more marriages
         Pension of child or children where widow ceases to be entitled
   35.   Pension of surviving children where child dies or ceases to be of
   36.   pensionable age
         Where all the children cease to be of pensionable age
   37.   Children to take in equal shares
   38.   Adopted children
   39.   What proof to be produced before payment of pensions
   40.   Discretion as to payment of minors’ pensions
   41.   Pension not to be assigned or levied upon
   42.   Questions and disputes to be decided by the President
   43.   Saving as regards contributions made before 1955
   44.   First Schedule — Rules and Tables for calculating pensions
         Second Schedule — Laws defining “entitled officer”

An Act to provide for widows’ and orphans’ pensions.
                                                              [1 January 1905]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Act 1904.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or

context —
      “contributor” means and includes every person from whose
         salary or pension deductions are made in accordance with this
         Act;
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                                 3

“the Directors” means such persons not less than 3 in number as
   are appointed by the Minister to carry out the provisions of
   this Act subject to the control of, and to rules for their
   guidance made by, the President;

“entitled officer” means an entitled officer, as defined in any of
   the written laws specified in the first column of the
   Second Schedule, who retires under the provisions of such
   written law specified in the second column of that Schedule;

“of a pensionable age”, as applied to children, means, in the case
   of a male, that he is under the age of 21 years, and, in the case
   of a female, that she is under the age of 21 years and has not
   been married;

“officer on the Malayan Establishment” means an officer whom
   the President has by notification in the Gazette declared to be
   on the Malayan Establishment;

“Pension Fund” means the Pension Fund established by the
   Pension Fund Act 1995;

“public servant” means an officer holding a pensionable office
   or an officer serving on probation or on agreement in a
   pensionable office, in the service of the Government, but
   does not include an officer —

          (a) who is not restricted by law to one wife at a time;

          (b) who, on or after 2 March 1961 —

          (i) is appointed to a pensionable office; or

          (ii) is appointed to a pensionable office on
               probation or on agreement, in the service of
               the Government;

          (c) who is transferred to the service of the Government
              under section 9 of the Local Government Integration
              Act (Cap. 166, 1985 Revised Edition) or section 5 of
              the Planning Act 1998; or

                                               31.12.2021
   Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

4  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

   (d) in the service of the Government before 2 March
        1961 who becomes restricted by law to one wife at a
        time on or after 1 April 1965, unless, within one
        month from the date he becomes so restricted, he
        gives notice in writing to the Directors of his desire to
        become a contributor, whereupon the provisions of
        this Act shall apply to him from the date of such
        notice.

                                                                                           [8/1995]

Pensions, etc., to be charged on Pension Fund

 2A. There shall be charged on and paid out of the Pension Fund all
sums of money payable by way of pension in accordance with this
Act.

                                                                                                             [8/1995]

Contributions to be credited to Pension Fund

 3. All contributions and other revenues receivable from public
officers under this Act shall be carried to the credit of the Pension
Fund:

 Provided that the sums so received shall not be assessable for
military contribution.

                                                                                                             [8/1995]
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                      5

Abatements from salaries to be made

 4.—(1) A monthly abatement shall be made from the salary or
pension of every public servant and all such abatements shall be paid
into the Pension Fund:

 Provided that where an officer was or is serving on probation or on
agreement in a pensionable office on or after 11 December 1950, he
may, not later than 31 December 1958, or 6 months after the
commencement of such service, whichever is the later, by giving
notice in writing to the Directors of his desire to do so, elect not to
become or to cease to be a contributor, as the case may be, and in such
case the provisions of this Act shall cease to apply to such officer in
respect of the period of his service on probation or on agreement, and
there shall be repayable to him the total amount of any contribution
which he may have made.

                                                                                                             [8/1995]

 (2) Such abatements shall be calculated at the rate of 4% of the
monthly salary of the contributor:

 Provided that, unless and until notice has been given as provided in
section 9(1), the abatement to be made in the case of a contributor
who has retired on pension or who has suffered reduction of salary
shall be calculated upon the salary drawn by such contributor
immediately prior to such retirement or reduction, as the case may be.

 (3) In the case of an officer holding or having held a post, the salary
of which is on a sterling basis, the abatement shall be made in dollars
at 4% of such sterling salary converted into dollars at the rate from
time to time fixed by the Government for the payment of such salaries
or pensions.

 (4) Contributions shall continue to be made on the full salary
whenever an officer is on leave of absence with half salary or without
salary.

 (5) An officer who held a non-pensionable office in the service of
the Government and was appointed to a pensionable office before
2 March 1961 shall be deemed to have entered such service on the
date of such appointment.

                                        31.12.2021
   Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

6  Act 1904                               2020 Ed.

Period for which abatement shall be made

 5.—(1) Such abatement shall continue to be made until the
contributor attains the age of 65 years, if he continues so long to
draw salary or pension from the Government, or until such abatement
has been made for 35 successive years, counting from the first
abatement of his original salary, in either of which events such
abatement shall cease.

Abatement to be made from salary of permanent post

 (2) Such abatement shall be calculated on the salary of the
permanent appointment of the contributor irrespective of any
temporary increment of salary which he derives from an acting
appointment, and irrespective of personal and other allowances
except pensionable personal allowances which shall be deemed to be
part of the contributor’s salary for the purpose of calculating such
abatement.

Abatement during period of enemy occupation

 6.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in sections 3, 4 and 5, where a
public servant was not during the period of enemy occupation and
during any period thereafter until his re-appointment in the service of
the Government, drawing the full salary or any part of his salary,
abatements calculated on the salary for which that public servant
would have been eligible in accordance with his salary scheme were it
not for the enemy occupation shall be deemed to have been made
during such period or periods under and in accordance with the
provisions of this Act:

 Provided that for the purpose of any repayment to contributors as
provided in sections 13, 14 and 15(2)(b) only the contributions
actually made shall be taken into account.

 (2) In this section, “the period of enemy occupation” means the
period commencing on 8 December 1941 and continuing to
31 August 1945.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                       7

Contributor retiring under certain laws

 7.—(1) Every contributor who is an entitled officer shall, at his
option exercisable as hereinafter provided, be entitled either —

(a) to cease to contribute, in which event his widow or
     children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his death
     to a pension computed on the basis of the interest acquired
     by such contributor at the date of his ceasing to contribute
     in accordance with the Rules and Tables set out in the
     First Schedule;

(b) to make a single contribution calculated in accordance with
     the Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule, in which
     event his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be
     entitled on his death to a pension computed on the basis of
     the contributor having contributed for the remainder of the
     period of 35 years or until he had attained the age of
     65 years or, in the event of the contributor dying before the
     expiration of that period or attaining that age, until the date
     of his death; or

          (c) after furnishing such proof as the Directors may require
              that his wife is in a normal state of health, to cease to
              contribute and be paid a sum calculated in accordance with
              the Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule in which
              case the rights of the contributor and of his widow and
              children shall cease.

 (2) The option shall be exercisable before the expiration of a period
of 6 months from the date of the retirement of the contributor or
before 31 July 1958, whichever shall be the later.

(3) The exercise by a contributor of the option shall be irrevocable.

 (4) The option shall be exercisable by written notification
addressed to the President.

Exercise of option

 8.—(1) Every contributor shall, at his option exercisable as is
provided in this section, be entitled to —

                                         31.12.2021
   Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

8  Act 1904                                             2020 Ed.

   (a) cease to contribute and elect that his widow or his widow
        and children or his children, as the case may be, shall be
        entitled, on his death, to a pension, computed on the basis
        of the interest acquired by the contributor at the date of his
        ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules and
        Tables set out in the First Schedule;

   (b) cease to contribute and elect that he be paid —

   (i) a sum calculated in accordance with the Rules and
       Tables set out in the First Schedule if, at the time of
       his election, he is a contributor with a wife or wife
       and children or children, as the case may be;

   (ii) a sum calculated in accordance with section 14(a) if,
        at the time of his election, he is a bachelor; or

   (iii) a sum calculated in accordance with the Rules and
         Tables set out in the First Schedule and section 14(b)
         if, at the time of his election, he is a widower without
         children:

      Provided that the rights of every such contributor under
   this Act shall cease; or

   (c) elect to continue to contribute in accordance with the
       provisions of this Act.

 (2) The option shall be exercisable by written notification to the
Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Finance before the expiration
of 6 months from 1 April 1965, and when so exercised shall be
irrevocable.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), a contributor shall be
deemed to include a person from whose salary or pension deductions
had been made in accordance with the provisions of this Act, until he
attained the age of 65 years or had made contributions for
35 successive years.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              9

Contributions where official income is reduced

 9.—(1) If the official income of a contributor becomes reduced,
whether by reduction of salary or by his retirement on pension, he
may, upon giving notice in writing to the Directors of his desire to do
so, contribute for the remainder of the 35 years or until he attains the
age of 65 years, upon the actual amount of his salary or pension, as
the case may be, in which case his widow or children shall, subject as
hereinafter provided, be entitled to pension accordingly; and where
the official income of a contributor becomes reduced by retirement on
pension on account of ill health, he may also upon giving notice in
writing to the Directors of his desire to do so, cease to contribute.

 (2) If a contributor who has retired on pension on account of ill
health and has given notice as provided in subsection (1) that he
desires to contribute on the actual amount of his pension dies within
3 years of the date of his retirement, his widow or children shall be
entitled to such pension computed on the basis of the pension rights
acquired by such contributor at the date of his retirement in
accordance with the Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule.

 (3) If a contributor who has retired on pension on account of ill
health and has given notice as provided in subsection (1) that he
desires to cease to contribute dies within 2 years of the date of his
retirement, his widow or children shall be entitled to a pension
computed on the basis of the pension rights acquired by such
contributor at the date of his retirement in accordance with the Rules
and Tables set out in the First Schedule.

 (4) Any notice given by a contributor under subsection (1) shall be
irrevocable, except in the case of an entitled officer who having
retired before 30 April 1958 exercises his option under section 7
before 31 July 1958.

                                                31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

10  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

 (5) Where such reduction of official income is due to retirement on
a pension and the contributor draws a pension not only from
Singapore, but also from Malaysia, he shall, if he elects to contribute
on his reduced salary or pension in accordance with subsection (1),
contribute on the aggregate amount of the pensions granted to him by
Singapore and by Malaysia, and such aggregate amount shall, for the
purposes of this section and subject to subsection (7), be deemed to be
his reduced official income.

 (6) Where a contributor only contributes on his reduced official
income, any pension to his widow or children shall be diminished in
the same proportion as it would have been increased had his rate of
contribution been raised instead of being lowered.

 (7) The pension of a contributor to whom a gratuity and reduced
pension have been granted shall, for the purpose of calculating the
amount of the abatements to be made under this section, be deemed to
be the equivalent of four-thirds of such reduced pension.

Contributor retiring on account of ill health

 10. If a contributor who holds a pensionable office retires on
account of ill health before he is entitled to a pension and dies within
2 years of the date of his retirement, his widow or children shall be
entitled to a pension computed on the basis of the pension rights
acquired by such contributor at the date of his retirement in
accordance with the Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule.

Contributor retired on pension

 11. If a contributor who has retired on a pension subsequently
ceases to have a wife or child who would on his death be entitled to
pension, he shall thereupon cease to contribute and his rights under
this Act shall cease.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                 11

Interest of contributors retiring without pension

 12.—(1) A married contributor or a contributor who is a widower
with children of a pensionable age who retires from the service of the
Government before he is entitled to a pension may continue to
contribute, from and after the date of his ceasing to draw salary, on the
salary which he was receiving from the Government at such date and
at the same rate and subject to the same terms and conditions as if he
had continued in the service of the Government:

 Provided that as soon as such contributor ceases to have a wife or
child who would on his death be entitled to pension he shall forthwith
cease to contribute and his rights under this Act shall cease.

 (2) In the event of any such contributor failing to contribute, or in
the event of any contribution due from him being in arrear for
6 months, it shall be considered that he has ceased to be a contributor
and his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled on his
death to a pension computed only on the basis of the pension rights
acquired by that contributor at the date of his ceasing to contribute in
accordance with the Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule.

Refund of contribution to bachelor or widower without
children of a pensionable age

 13.—(1) If a contributor being a bachelor or a widower without
children of a pensionable age retires from the service of the
Government, he shall cease to contribute and his rights under this
Act shall cease, except as provided in subsection (2).

 (2) If a contributor being a bachelor or a widower without children
of a pensionable age dies while in the service of the Government or
retires from the service of the Government there shall be payable to
him or to his legal representative —

       (a) if such contributor is a bachelor, the total amount of his
            contributions together with compound interest thereon
            calculated with annual rests at the rate of 2½%; and

       (b) if such contributor is a widower without children of a
            pensionable age, the total amount of the contributions
            which he has paid since the death of his last wife or the

                                                   31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

12  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

    ceasing to be of pensionable age of his last child,
    whichever event shall last have happened together with
    compound interest thereon calculated with annual rests at
    the rate of 2½%.

Provisions consequent upon an officer being removed

 14. A contributor who is removed from the service of the
Government shall cease to contribute under this Act, and —

       (a) where such contributor is a bachelor, the total amount of
            his contributions under this Act shall be repaid to him,
            together with compound interest thereon calculated with
            annual rests at the rate of 2½%, subject to the deduction of
            any sums due by him to the Government;

       (b) where such contributor is a widower without children of a
            pensionable age, the total amount of the contributions
            which he has paid since the death of his last wife or the
            ceasing to be of a pensionable age of his last child,
            whichever event shall have last happened, shall be repaid
            to him, together with compound interest thereon calculated
            with annual rests at the rate of 2½%, subject to the
            deduction of any sums due by him to the Government; and

       (c) where such contributor is married or is a widower with
            children of a pensionable age, his widow or children, as the
            case may be, shall be entitled to a pension computed on the
            basis of the pension rights acquired by such contributor at
            the date of the cessation of his contributions in accordance
            with the Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                         13

Contributor transferred to other Government employment in
country where the law provides for granting pensions to
widows and children

 15.—(1) When a contributor is transferred from the service of the
Government to other employment under the Government of a British
Dominion, Colony, Protected State or Protectorate or a territory in
respect of which a mandate, or trusteeship on behalf of the League of
Nations or the United Nations is being exercised by Her Majesty,
where provision is made by law for the granting of pensions to
widows and children of persons employed in its service, he shall
cease to contribute under this Act as soon as he becomes a contributor
under the provisions of that law, but so that nevertheless —

(a) his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled
     on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the
     pension rights acquired by such contributor at the date of
     the cessation of his contributions in accordance with the
     Rules and Tables set out in the First Schedule;

(b) if he retires or is removed from the service of such
     Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or
     territory, or dies while in the service thereof, and is at
     the time of such retirement, removal or death a widower
     without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor,
     section 13 or 14, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
     apply;

          (c) until he ceases to contribute under the provisions of this
              Act, his contribution shall be on the salary of the last
              substantive appointment held by him in Singapore at the
              date of his transfer, at the same rate and subject to the same
              terms and conditions as if he had continued in the service
              of the Government.

Contributor transferred to country where no such law exists

 (2) When a contributor is transferred to such Dominion, Colony,
Protected State, Protectorate or territory other than North Borneo,
where no provision has been made by law for granting such pensions
as aforesaid, such contributor shall —

                                        31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

14  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

    (a) if married, or a widower having children of a pensionable
         age, be entitled, on giving notice in writing to the Directors
         within one month after his transfer from the service of the
         Government of his desire to do so, to continue to be a
         contributor on the salary of the last substantive
         appointment held by him in Singapore at the date of his
         transfer, at the same rate and subject to the same terms and
         conditions as if he had continued in the service of the
         Government;

    (b) if then a widower without children of a pensionable age or
         a bachelor, be entitled to elect, on giving the notice
         required to be given under paragraph (a), to continue to
         contribute as is provided in that paragraph or to be paid the
         total amount without interest of his contributions.

 (3) In the event of the contributions of any such contributor being in
arrear for 6 months it shall be considered that he has ceased to be a
contributor, and his widow or his widow and children, as the case may
be, shall be entitled on his death to a pension computed only on the
basis of the pension rights acquired by such contributor at the date of
his ceasing to contribute, in accordance with the Rules and Tables set
out in the First Schedule.

 (4) (a) When any such contributor, being a widower without
children of a pensionable age or a bachelor, has elected to continue to
contribute, then if he retires or is removed from the service of such
Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or territory, or dies
while in the service thereof and is at the time of such retirement,
removal or death a widower without children of a pensionable age or
a bachelor, section 13 or 14, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
apply.

 (b) When any such contributor, being a widower without children
of a pensionable age or a bachelor, has elected to be paid the total
amount without interest of his contributions, then on such payment
being made his rights and liabilities under this Act shall cease.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                           15

Contributor transferred to North Borneo

 (5) A contributor who was transferred to the Colony of North
Borneo before provision was made by the law of that Colony for
granting pensions to widows and children of persons employed in the
service of that Colony shall continue to be a contributor under this
Act on the salary which for the time being he is entitled to receive in
respect of any office held by him in the service of that country at the
same rate and subject to the same terms and conditions as if he had
continued in the service of the Government.

 (6) In the event of the contribution of such contributor to the
Government being in arrear, such arrears, together with interest
thereon at the rate of 6%, shall be recoverable from such contributor
as a debt due to the Government or shall be deducted from any salary
which is subsequently payable to him from the Government.

 (7) Where a contributor either elects or is bound under
subsections (2) to (6) to continue his contribution after being
transferred as aforesaid, he may cease to contribute under this Act
as soon as the Government of the Dominion, Colony, Protected State,
Protectorate or territory in whose service he is employed has made
provision by law for granting pensions to widows and children of
persons employed in its service and he has become a contributor
under the provisions of that law.

(8) In the event of his so electing to cease contributing —

(a) his widow or children, as the case may be, shall be entitled
     on his death to a pension computed on the basis of the
     pension rights acquired by such contributor at the date of
     his so ceasing to contribute in accordance with the Rules
     and Tables set out in the First Schedule;

                                         31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

16  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

    (b) if he retires or is removed from the service of such
         Dominion, Colony, Protected State, Protectorate or
         territory, or dies while in the service thereof, and is at
         the time of such retirement, removal or death a widower
         without children of a pensionable age or a bachelor,
         section 13 or 14, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
         apply.

Contributor to Oversea Superannuation Scheme

 16.—(1) If any contributor, or any officer who would, but for this
section, be liable to contribute under this Act, becomes a contributor
to the Oversea Superannuation Scheme in respect of dependants’
benefits he shall, on written application made within 3 months after
the date on which he first became a contributor under that Scheme, or
within such extended period as the Directors may, in any particular
case, allow, be exempted by the Directors from contributing under
this Act, so long as he continues to contribute to that Scheme.

 (2) An exemption granted under subsection (1) shall take effect
from the date upon which such contributor or officer first became a
contributor to that Scheme, and there shall be repayable to him the
total amount of any contributions which he may have made under this
Act since that date.

 (3) Section 15(1) shall apply to a contributor who has been
exempted under subsection (1) as if he had been transferred to
other such employment within the meaning of that subsection.

 (4) An officer who has contributed to the Oversea Superannuation
Scheme for the full period required by the said Scheme and has by
such contributions provided a pension for his widow and children,
shall be deemed for the purpose of subsection (1) to be still
contributing to such Scheme.

Definition of service

 17. A public servant who is an officer on the Malayan
Establishment shall be deemed for the purpose of this Act to be in
the service of the Government except that for the purpose of
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                      17

sections 18 and 19 he shall be deemed to be in the service of
Malaysia.

Officers transferred from Malaysia

 18. When an officer in the service of Malaysia who is a contributor
under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Enactment (F.M.S.
Cap. 26) has been transferred to the service of the Government he
shall forthwith become a contributor under this Act on the full salary
to which he is from time to time entitled in the service of Singapore
except that the period during which he has contributed under the
Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Enactment of Malaysia shall be taken
into account in reckoning the period of 35 years referred to in
section 5.

Arrears of contribution to Malaysia pension scheme

 19. When an officer in the service of Malaysia who is a contributor
under the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Enactment thereof, has
been transferred to the service of any Malay State where no provision
has been made by law for the granting of pensions to widows and
children of persons employed in its service and the contribution of
that contributor under the said Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
Enactment is in arrear, such arrear shall be deducted from any salary
which is subsequently payable to him from the Government.

Officers contributing to approved schemes

 20.—(1) When an officer, who is a contributor to an approved
scheme, is transferred to the service of the Government, and
continues after the transfer to contribute to that scheme, he shall,
on written application, be exempted by the Directors from
contributing under the provisions of this Act, so long as he
continues to contribute to that scheme.

 (2) No application for exemption under subsection (1) shall be valid
unless it is received by the Directors within 3 months or within such
extended period as the Directors may, in any particular case, allow
from the date when such officer arrives to assume duty in Singapore.

 (3) An officer who has contributed to an approved scheme for the
full period required by that scheme and has by such contributions

                                        31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

18  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

provided a pension for his widow or children shall be deemed for the
purposes of subsection (1) to be still contributing to the scheme.

 (4) An officer exempted under subsection (1) shall not
subsequently become a contributor under this Act unless either he
ceases to contribute to such approved scheme or, having left the
service of the Government, he is subsequently reappointed to it.

 (5) Nothing in this section shall exempt an officer who on
re-appointment to the service of the Government is already a
contributor under this Act from continuing his contributions
hereunder.

 (6) Where an officer who is a contributor to an approved scheme is
transferred to the service of the Government and ceases after the
transfer to contribute to that scheme, any period during which he was
a contributor to that scheme shall be taken into account in reckoning
the period of 35 years referred to in section 5.

 (7) In this section, “approved scheme” means a scheme for the
granting of pensions to widows and children of officers, which has
been declared by the Minister to be an approved scheme for the
purposes of this section.

Rules for payment when a contributor on leave of absence or
pensioner is paid by the Crown Agents

 21.—(1) When a contributor on leave of absence is paid by the
Crown Agents, he shall be entitled to receive 96% or 46% of his
nominal salary according as he is on full or half pay leave converted
in the case of dollar salaries into sterling at the rate of exchange at
which the contributor is entitled to receive such salary.

 (2) When a contributor receives his pension through the Crown
Agents the pension —

       (a) if a dollar pension, shall be reduced by the amount of his
            dollar contributions and the balance thus reduced shall be
            payable to him converted into sterling at the rate of
            exchange at which he is entitled to receive such pension;
            and
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                      19

(b) if a sterling pension, shall be payable to him reduced only
     by 4% of his sterling salary or pension, as the case may be.

Register of contributions to be kept

 22.—(1) A register shall be kept by the Directors in which shall be
entered the date of the birth of every contributor and, if he is married,
the dates of the births of his wife and children, if any, and all other
dates and particulars respecting contributors and their families
material to be recorded for the purposes of this Act.

By those hereafter appointed

 (2) Every public servant who enters the service of the Government
shall, within 6 months after the date of so entering, notify to the
Directors the date of his birth and, if he is a married man, the date of
his marriage and of the births of his wife and children, if any, all duly
proved to the satisfaction of the Directors by affidavit or otherwise.

To notify marriage or divorce

 (3) Every contributor who marries or whose marriage is annulled or
dissolved by the decree of a competent court shall within 3 months
after the date of the marriage or the decree, as the case may be, notify
the same to the Directors in writing and, in the case of his marriage,
state the date of the birth of his wife, duly proved as aforesaid.

To notify birth of child, marriage of daughter and death of wife
or child

 (4) Every contributor shall notify the Directors in writing the birth
of each child born to him within 3 months from the date of the birth,
duly proved as aforesaid, and the marriage of any female child, under
the age of 21 years, within 3 months from the date of the marriage,
and also, within 3 months from the date of the event, the death of his
wife or any of his pensionable children.

                                        31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

20  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

Notice of death of contributor and birth of posthumous child
and of marriage or death to be notified

 (5) After the death of any contributor, notice of the death and of the
birth of any posthumous child born to that contributor, duly proved as
aforesaid, and of the marriage of any female child of that contributor,
under the age of 21 years, and of the death of any child of that
contributor, under the age of 21 years, shall be given in writing by the
widow of that contributor to the Directors within 3 months after the
date of the event.

Penalty for non-compliance with section 22

 23.—(1) A contributor or widow who fails or neglects to comply
with any of the requirements of section 22 shall for each default pay a
fine not exceeding $25 which shall be deducted from his or her salary
or pension, as the case may be, by the Accountant-General on the
certificate of the Directors.

Penalty for false statement

 (2) A contributor who wilfully makes any false statement
respecting any of the particulars required to be furnished by this
Act shall forfeit at the discretion of the Directors all or any part of his
rights under this Act.

Calculation of pensions

 24.—(1) All pensions shall be calculated according to the Rules and
Tables set out in the First Schedule.

 (2) The President may vary any of the Rules and Tables referred to
in subsection (1).
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                     21

Pensions, how to be paid in case of sterling salaries

 (3) In the case of contributions made in the manner provided in
section 4 for officers holding or having held posts the salary of which
is on a sterling basis, the contributions shall for the purpose of
calculating pensions be deemed to be fixed sterling contributions and
the pensions shall accordingly be fixed and payable in sterling or, if
paid in Singapore, shall be converted into dollars at the rate annually
or periodically fixed by the Government for the payment in Singapore
of officers’ salaries or pensions.

Who not entitled to pension

 25.—(1) The following persons shall not be entitled to any pension
under this Act:

       (a) a widow whose marriage was contracted after her husband
            had completed his 35 years of contributions or attained the
            age of 65 years or retired or been removed from the service
            of the Government;

       (b) the issue of such a marriage;

       (c) a widow whose husband dies within 12 calendar months of
            the marriage without issue of such marriage born in his
            lifetime or in due time after his death.

 (2) The President may, if he thinks fit, allow to such last mentioned
widow all or any part of the pension to which she would have been
entitled but for subsection (1)(c).

 (3) References in this Act to “widow” and to “child or children of a
pensionable age” shall not include a widow whose marriage was
contracted in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (1) and the
issue of such marriage.

Pension, when to commence

 26. The pension payable to a widow or child or children under this
Act shall commence upon the death of the husband or father or
mother, as the case may be, shall accrue daily, and shall be payable
monthly free from any deduction.

                                                       31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

22  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

When widow’s pension ceases

 27.—(1) A widow’s pension shall cease on her death or remarriage
or on her becoming a bankrupt.

 (2) When a widow’s pension ceases in her lifetime she shall for the
purposes of this Act be deemed to have died at the time of such
cesser:

 Provided that if a widow’s pension ceases in her lifetime by reason
of her bankruptcy the President may from time to time during the
remainder of her life or during such shorter period or periods, either
continuous or otherwise, as he thinks fit, direct the payment of all or
any part of so much, if any, of the said pension as is not for the time
being payable to any child or children of such widow or of any
husband of hers under this Act to, or apply the same for the
maintenance and personal support or benefit of, such widow in such
manner as he thinks proper.

Dissolution of marriage

 28. When the marriage of any contributor has been annulled or
dissolved by the decree of any competent court the wife, party to such
marriage, shall for all purposes of this Act be deemed to have died
and the contributor to have become a widower at the date of such
decree.

When children’s pensions cease

 29. Children’s pensions shall cease, in the case of a male, on his
attaining the age of 21 years and, in the case of a female, on her
attaining the age of 21 years or marrying under that age.

Pension of widow where no child by previous marriage of
contributor

 30. If a contributor dies leaving a widow but no child of a
pensionable age by a previous marriage, the widow shall be entitled
to receive a pension calculated according to the Rules and Tables set
out in the First Schedule applicable to her case under this Act.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                             23

Pension of child where no widow alive at death of contributor

 31. If a contributor dies leaving no widow but a child or children of
a pensionable age by one marriage, such child or children shall be
entitled to receive the pension which his or their mother would have
been entitled to, if she had survived the contributor.

Pensions of children by 2 or more marriages where no widow
alive at death of contributor

 32. If a contributor dies leaving no widow but children of a
pensionable age by 2 or more marriages, the child or children of each
marriage shall be entitled to receive one-half, one-third or
one-quarter, as the case may be, of the pension which his or their
mother would have been entitled to, if she had survived the
contributor and there had been no child by any other marriage.

Where contributor dies leaving a widow and a child or children
by a previous marriage

 33. If a contributor dies leaving a widow and also a child or children
of a pensionable age by one previous marriage —

       (a) the widow shall be entitled to receive one-half of the
            pension which she would have been entitled to receive, if
            there had been no such child or children; and

       (b) such child or children shall be entitled to receive one-half
            of the pension which his or their mother would have been
            entitled to, if she had survived the contributor.

Where contributor dies leaving a widow and children by 2 or
more marriages

 34. If a contributor dies leaving a widow and children of
pensionable age by 2 or more marriages —

       (a) the widow shall be entitled to receive one-third or
            one-quarter, as the case may be, of the pension which
            she would have received, if there had been no child by a
            previous marriage; and

                                        31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

24  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

    (b) the child or children of each previous marriage shall be
         entitled to receive one-third or one-quarter, as the case may
         be, of the pension which his or their mother would have
         been entitled to, if she had survived the contributor and
         there had been no child by any other marriage.

Pension of child or children where widow ceases to be entitled

 35. When a widow of a contributor ceases to be entitled to a
pension, the child or children of a contributor shall be entitled to
receive the pension which he or they would have been entitled to
receive, if such widow had predeceased the contributor.

Pension of surviving children where child dies or ceases to be of
pensionable age

 36. If any child dies or ceases to be of pensionable age, the
surviving children of the same marriage shall be entitled to receive
the pension to which they would have been entitled, if such child had
predeceased the contributor.

Where all the children cease to be of pensionable age

 37. When all the children of any marriage cease to be of
pensionable age, the person or persons entitled under the preceding
sections shall be entitled to receive the pension which he or they
would have been entitled to receive, if there had been no child of such
marriage of pensionable age living at the death of the contributor.

Children to take in equal shares

 38. Where children of any marriage are entitled to any pension they
shall take the same in equal shares.

Adopted children

 39.—(1) A child adopted by a contributor while he is married to any
wife shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be the child of the
contributor by that marriage if —

       (a) the contributor adopted the child before he retired from the
            public service;
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                            25

(b) the contributor was under the age of 55 years at the date of
     adoption; and

          (c) the adoption is registered under the Adoption of Children
              Act 1939 or is valid according to the law of the place of
              domicile of the contributor at the date of the adoption or is
              valid under any written law corresponding to that Act, of
              the place where the contributor was resident at the date of
              the adoption.

 (2) The child of a contributor who has been adopted by any other
person in circumstances in which if the adoption had been made by a
contributor it would have been valid in accordance with
subsection (1)(c) shall not be entitled to receive a pension under
this Act unless the contributor so elects by notice in writing given to
the Directors within 12 months of the date of the adoption or within
12 months of 1 September 1958, whichever is the later, or within such
extended period as the Directors may in any particular case allow.

(3) Nothing in this section shall entitle an adopted child —

(a) to receive a pension or any share of a pension where the
     receipt by him of such pension or such share would
     diminish the pension or share which the widow or any
     child or children by marriage of any contributor may be
     entitled to receive on 31 May 1958; or

(b) to receive a pension or any share of a pension in respect of
     more than one contributor.

What proof to be produced before payment of pensions

 40.—(1) Widows and children claiming to be entitled to pension
under this Act and residing outside Singapore shall from time to time
produce such proof as the Directors require of their being alive and
entitled to pension.

 (2) The payment of any pension may be refused until such proof is
furnished to the satisfaction of the Directors.

                                        31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

26  Act 1904                                  2020 Ed.

Discretion as to payment of minors’ pensions

 41.—(1) In all cases where under this Act the parties entitled to
pensions are minors, such pensions may, on order of the Directors, be
paid either to the legal guardian or guardians of such minors, or to
such minors, or to such person or persons as the Directors in their
discretion think fit and proper persons to apply the same for the
benefit of such minors.

 (2) After payment the Directors and the Government shall be free
from all responsibility in respect of such payment.

 (3) In the case of any pension which is paid through the Crown
Agents the power given by subsection (1) to the Directors may be
exercised through the Crown Agents.

Pension not to be assigned or levied upon

 42. No pension payable under this Act nor the rights of any
contributor acquired thereunder shall be assignable or transferable or
liable to be attached, sequestrated or levied upon, for or in respect of
any debt or claim whatsoever.

Questions and disputes to be decided by the President

 43. All questions and disputes as to who is entitled to be deemed a
contributor or as to the right of a widow or child to a pension or as to
the amount of such pension or as to the rights or liabilities of any
person under this Act shall be referred by the Directors to the
President, whose decision shall be binding and conclusive on all
parties and shall be final to all intents and purposes and shall not be
subject to appeal or be questioned or revised by any court of justice.
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                                27

Saving as regards contributions made before 1955

 44. The repeal by the Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
(Amendment) Ordinance 1952 of the sections then numbered 7(1),
8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 and the substitution for them of section 9(1), (2),
(3) and (4) and sections 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 do not have effect with
respect to the payment or repayment of any contributions made
before 1 January 1955; and notwithstanding the repeal of the sections
then numbered 8, 9, 11(3) and 12 and the amendment by that
Ordinance of the section then numbered 13(2), the provisions of those
sections and subsections respectively continue to have effect in
relation to the payment or repayment of any such contributions as if
that Ordinance had not been enacted.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                             Sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15, 24
                                                                                                               and 30

            RULES AND TABLES FOR CALCULATING PENSIONS

                 A.—PUBLIC OFFICER WHO COMMENCED TO
                        CONTRIBUTE WHILE A BACHELOR

. 1. FIRST WIFE’S PROSPECTIVE PENSION

               (A) Pension in consideration of the contributions paid
                                    during bachelorhood

   RULE I (a)—Accumulate the contributions at 8% compound interest, with
yearly rests at each 31 December, and multiply the result by the quantity found
from Table A corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the husband
and wife at the date of marriage.

   The product gives the pension on account of the contributions paid during
bachelorhood.

     (B) Pension in consideration of the annual contribution current at the
                                      date of marriage

    Note—The amount of the current annual contribution is obtained by
multiplying by 12 the amount of the last monthly contribution.

    RULE I (b)—Turn to the section of Table B which contains in the heading
the age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution;
and multiply the amount of the current annual contribution by the quantity found

                                                  31.12.2021
                    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

28                  Act 1904                                2020 Ed.

                            FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

from that section corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the
husband and wife at the date of marriage.

   The product gives the pension on account of the annual contribution current at
the date of marriage.

   Example of the application of Rules I (a) and I (b):

. Officer born on                                     31 July 1878.

    Do. commenced to contribute on                    1 April 1904.

    Do. married on                                    30 June 1908.

    Annual contribution, 1 April 1904 to 31 December

    1906                                              $20.

    Annual contribution, 1 January 1907 to date of

    marriage                                          $30.

    Date of completion of contribution period         1 April 1939.

    Wife born on                                      31 August 1888.

    Officer’s age next birthday at date of marriage   30.

    Do. do. completion of contribution period 61.

    Wife’s age next birthday at date of marriage      20.

APPLICATION OF RULE I (a).                                  $15.00
  Accumulation of contributions paid during bachelorhood —   20.00
                                                               1.20
. Contributions from 1 April to 31 December 1904
       Do. during 1905                                      $36.20
       One year’s interest at 8% on $15                      20.00
                                                               2.90
       Contributions during 1906
       One year’s interest at 8% on $36.20                  $59.10
                                                             30.00
       Contributions during 1907                               4.73
       One year’s interest at 8% on 59.10
                                                            $93.83
       Contributions from 1 January to 30 June 1908          15.00
2020 Ed.                 Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension           29
                                       Act 1904
                                                              3.75
                         FIRST SCHEDULE — continued       $112.58

   Half-year’s interest at 8% on $93.83

   Total accumulation

. Quantity found from Table A — Husband*       30         } ·554

                                   Wife*       20

  $112.58 × ·554 = $62.37 = pension in consideration of contributions paid during
bachelorhood.

APPLICATION OF RULE I (b).

   Annual contribution current at the date of marriage $30.

   Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at
completion of period of contribution —

.                 Husband*     30  }.

                                                          5·77.

                  Wife*        20

  $30 × 5·77 = $173.10 = pension in consideration of annual contribution current
at marriage.

   Total pension to be recorded on the bachelor contributor marrying —

   By Rule I (a)            .  .         .  .             $ 62.37
   By Rule I (b)
                                                          173.10

                                               Total ...  $ 235.47

*Note—Where the ages are not given in the tables, proceed as illustrated in the general examples given in
 section F.

                                                                                              31.12.2021
                 Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

30                           Act 1904                             2020 Ed.

                       FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(C) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the
 current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his first wife.

   Note—The cessation of the contribution from any cause before the completion
of the full period of contribution must be regarded as a decrement from the current
annual contribution equal to the amount of such current annual contribution.

   RULE I (c)—Turn to the section of Table B which contains in the heading the
age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution; and
multiply the amount of the increment to, or the decrement from, the current annual
contribution by the quantity found from that section corresponding to the
respective ages next birthday of the husband and wife at the date of the variation of
the contribution.

   The product gives the amount to be added to the pension consequent on the
increment to the current annual contribution, or, as the case may be, the amount to
be deducted from the pension consequent on the decrement from the current
annual contribution.

    Example of the application of Rule I (c):

    Assume particulars as in the example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b):

. Annual contribution increased on 31 May 1913,

    from $30 to                                                   $50.

    Annual contribution decreased on 30 April 1918,

    from $50 to                                                   $40.

    Annual contribution ceased on 31 March 1923.

    1913, May 31. Increment to current annual contribution        $20.

   Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at
completion of period of contribution —

                 Husband 35                    }.
                                                           4·74.
                 Wife  25

  $20 × 4·74 = $94.80 = amount to be added to the pension.        $235.47
                                                                     94.80
. Pension at marriage, see example subjoined to
     Rules I (a) and I (b)                                        $330.27
     Add                                                               $10
     Pension at 31 May 1913
     1918 April 30.—Decrement from current annual contribution
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.              Act 1904                                  31

                FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

   Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at
completion of period of contribution —

          Husband 40                  }.
                                                  3·83.
          Wife  30

$10 × 3·83 = $38.30 = amount to be deducted from the registered pension.

. Pension at 31 May 1913, as above                              $330.27
     Deduct                                                        38.30

     Pension at 30 April 1918                                   $291.97
     1923 March 31.—Cessation of contribution regarded as
     a decrement from current annual contribution                    $40

   Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 61 next birthday at
completion of period of contribution —

          Husband 45                  }.
                                                  2·99.
          Wife  35

$40 × 2·99 = $119.60 = amount to be deducted from the pension.

. Pension at 30 April 1918, as above                            $291.97
     Deduct                                                      119.60
     Pension at 31 March 1923
                                                                $172.37

  II.—SECOND, AND SUBSEQUENT, WIFE’S PROSPECTIVE PENSION

 (A) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from,
       the current annual contribution while the contributor is a widower.

  RULE II (a)—Assume that the contributor is married to a wife of the age that his
last preceding wife would have been had she survived to the date of the variation
of the contribution, and proceed in accordance with Rule I (c).

   Example of the application of Rule II (a):

  If the particulars be as in the example subjoined to Rule I (c), except that the first
wife, who was born on 31 August 1888 died on 30 November 1908, it would be
assumed that the contributor was at the date of each of the 3 variations of the

                                                                31.12.2021
                Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

32                            Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

                      FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

contribution married to a wife who was born on 31 August 1888. The calculations
will then be identical with those given in the example subjoined to Rule I (c).

  (B) Variations of pension consequent on the remarriage of the contributor.

  Note—No variation of the pension is to be recorded if the second, or subsequent,
wife was at the date of the remarriage of the same age next birthday as the last
preceding wife would have been had she survived to that date.

    RULE II (b)—If the second, or subsequent, wife was at the date of the
remarriage of a less or greater age next birthday than the last preceding wife
would have been had she survived to that date, multiply the amount of the pension
by the quantity found from Table C corresponding to the age next birthday of the
husband at the date of remarriage, and the age next birthday which the last
preceding wife would have attained had she survived to that date; multiply the
product so obtained by the quantity found from Table A corresponding to the
respective ages of the husband and of the second, or subsequent, wife at the date of
the remarriage.

  The result gives the pension to be recorded on the remarriage of the contributor.

   Example of the application of Rule II (b):

   Assume particulars as in the example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b).

. First wife died on                                30 November 1908.

    Contributor remarried on                        31 January 1913.

    Contributor’s age next birthday at date of

    remarriage                                      35.

    Second wife born on                             30 June 1893.

    Second wife’s age next birthday at date of the

    remarriage                                      20.

    Age next birthday which the first wife would have
    attained had she survived to date of the remarriage 25.

  1913 January 31.—The second wife being of a less age next birthday at the date
of the remarriage than the first wife would have been had she survived, the pension
$235.47 see example subjoined to Rules I (a) and I (b), is to be recalculated.

   Quantity found from Table C —

                Husband 35                      }.
                                                            2·074.
                Wife     25
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.              Act 1904                                       33

                        FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
Quantity found from Table A —

          Husband 35                 }.
                                                 ·462.
          Wife  20

$235.47 × 2·074 = $488.36.
$488.36 × ·462 = $225.62 = pension at 31 January 1913.

(C) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the
 current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his second, or

                                      subsequent, wife.

   RULE II (c)—Proceed as in Rule I (c).

                 B.—PUBLIC OFFICER WHO COMMENCED TO
                          CONTRIBUTE WHILE MARRIED

                  III.—FIRST WIFE’S PROSPECTIVE PENSION

   Note—In every case of a public officer who commenced to contribute while
married, the wife at the date of commencement of the contribution is to be
considered as the officer’s first wife, and no particulars are to be recorded
respecting any former wife to whom he may have been married, unless there is
issue of such former wife of a pensionable age (see D.—Pensions to orphan
children).

(A) Pension in consideration of the annual contribution current at the date of
                           commencement of the contribution

  RULE III (a)—Turn to the section of Table B which contains in the heading the
age of the husband at the date of completion of his period of contribution; and
multiply the amount of the current annual contribution by the quantity found from
that section corresponding to the respective ages next birthday of the husband and
wife at the date of commencement of the contribution.

   The product gives the pension on account of the annual contribution current at
the date of commencement of the contribution.

   Example of the application of Rule III (a):

. Officer born on                                   31 August 1870.
     Do. married on                                 30 June 1899.
     Do. commenced to contribute on                 31 July 1910.

                                                        31.12.2021
                  Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

34                    Act 1904                                      2020 Ed.

                  FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    Annual contribution current on 31 July 1910  $100.

    Date of completion of contribution period    31 August 1935.

    Wife born on                                 31 October 1880.

    Officer’s age next birthday on 31 July 1910  40.

    Officer’s age at completion of contribution period 65.

    Wife’s age next birthday on 31 July 1910     30.

    1910 July 31.—Current annual contribution    $100.

   Quantity found from Table B, section for officers aged 65 next birthday at
completion of period of contribution —

    Husband 40                                   }.
                                                             3·99.
    Wife          30

  $100 × 3·99 = $399.00 = pension in consideration of annual contribution current
at commencement of contribution.

(B) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the
 current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his first wife.

   RULE III (b)—Proceed as in Rule I (c).

 IV.—SECOND, AND SUBSEQUENT, WIFE’S PROSPECTIVE PENSION

(A) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from,
      the current annual contribution while the contributor is a widower.

  RULE IV (a)—Proceed as in Rule II (a).

(B) Variations of pension consequent on the remarriage of the contributor.
RULE IV (b)—Proceed as in Rule II (b).

(C) Variations of pension consequent on increments to, and decrements from, the
 current annual contribution while the contributor is married to his second, or

                                      subsequent, wife.

   RULE IV (c)—Proceed as in Rule I (c).
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.            Act 1904                                 35

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          C.—PUBLIC OFFICER WHO COMMENCED TO
                 CONTRIBUTE WHILE A WIDOWER

V.—SECOND, AND SUBSEQUENT, WIFE’S PROSPECTIVE PENSION

  RULE V—For the purpose of calculating the pension assume that the deceased
wife survived to the date of commencement of the contribution and died
immediately afterwards; then proceed in accordance with the rules applicable to
the case of officers who commenced to contribute while married (see B).

                     D.—PENSIONS TO ORPHAN CHILDREN
 VI.—ORPHANS’ PENSIONS AT DEATH OF WIDOWER CONTRIBUTOR

            (A) Case where the orphans are the issue of the same wife.
   RULE VI (a)—Divide the amount of the pension of the widower contributor
equally among the children entitled for the time being.
   Example of the application of Rule VI (a):

Pension of widower contributor at his death $150 per annum.
Children entitled on his death —

          Spinster daughter aged 19.

          Son aged            14.

          Son aged            12.

   Each of the 3 children will take a pension of $50 per annum.

  If the spinster daughter marry at the age of 20 the 2 sons will each take a pension
of $75 per annum.

   If the younger son subsequently die at the age of 15 the elder son will take the
full pension of $150 per annum.

           (B) Case where the orphans are the issue of different wives.

   Note—The rules here given provide for the case of 2 wives only.

  RULE VI (b)—(1) Divide equally among such of the children of the first wife as
may be entitled for the time being one moiety of the pension which the first wife
would have received had she survived the contributor.

 (2) Divide equally among such of the children of the second wife as may be
entitled for the time being one moiety of the pension which the second wife would

                                                             31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

36  Act 1904                      2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

have received had she survived the contributor, and had there been no issue of the
first wife entitled to pension.

 (3) So soon as all children of either the first wife or the second wife have ceased
to be entitled to pension, divide equally among such of the children of the other
wife as may be entitled for the time being the whole of the pension which such
other wife would have received had she survived the contributor, and had there
been no issue of the first wife entitled to pension.

VII.—ORPHANS’ PENSIONS AT DEATH OR REMARRIAGE OF WIDOW
   RULE VII—Divide the amount of the widow’s pension equally among her

children entitled for the time being.

   Example of the application of Rule VII:
   Amount of widow’s pension at her death or remarriage—$150 per annum.

   Children entitled at her death:

  Assuming the particulars as in the example subjoined in Rule VI (a) proceed as
therein indicated.

VIII.—ORPHANS’ PENSIONS AT DEATH OF MARRIED CONTRIBUTOR

   RULE VIII—In the case where a contributor dies leaving a widow, and also
children the issue of a previous marriage, divide equally among such of the
children of the first wife as may be entitled for the time being one moiety of the
pension which the first wife would have received had she survived the contributor.
On the widow’s pension ceasing, divide equally among such of the children of the
first wife as may be entitled for the time being the whole of the pension which the
first wife would have received had she survived the contributor.

   Note—In this case, so long as the children of the first wife are entitled to
pension, the widow’s pension is one moiety of that which she would have received
had there been no such children.

   E.—RETIREMENT OF ENTITLED OFFICERS AND REPAYMENT TO
CONTRIBUTORS WHO EXERCISE THEIR OPTION UNDER SECTION 8 OF

                                          THE ACT

                            IX.—SINGLE CONTRIBUTION

   RULE IX.—The single contribution referred to in section 7(1)(b) of the Act is
calculated by multiplying the annual contribution, calculated at the rate of 4% of
his salary or pension, by the Table B factor and dividing the product by the Table A
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                      37

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

factor, both factors corresponding to the ages next birthday of the officer and his
wife at the date of retirement.

Example of the application of Rule IX:

  If an officer, who is 61 next birthday at the completion of the period of
contribution, is 40 next birthday and his wife 35 next birthday at the date
of retirement the single contribution necessary to commute an annual
contribution of $400 per annum is 400 × 4.06 ÷ .449 = $3,620. In this case
4.06 is the value in Table B for officers who will be aged 61 next
birthday at completion of contributions and .449 is the value in Table A.

                                     X.—REPAYMENT

   RULE X.—The sums referred to in sections 7(1)(c) and 8(1)(b)(i) and (iii) of
the Act are calculated by subtracting from the officer’s prospective pension,
calculated in accordance with the foregoing rules, the product of his annual
contribution and Table B factor and multiplying the product by the Table C factor,
both factors corresponding to the ages on the next birthday of the officer and his
wife after the date of retirement or after the date of his exercising the option to
cease to contribute under section 8 of the Act, as the case may be.

   Example of the application of Rule X:

  An officer aged 40 next birthday with a wife aged 35 has a registered pension of
$4,000 per annum based on continued annual contribution of $400 up to the age of
61 next birthday. If he ceases to contribute on retirement his paid-up registered
pension will be $4,000 minus $400 × 4.06 = $2,376. In this case 4.06 is the value
in Table B for officers who will be 61 next birthday at completion of contributions.
To calculate the refundable sum $2,376 must be multiplied by 2.226, being the
appropriate value in Table C, giving a product of $5,288.

          F.—PUBLIC OFFICER TRANSFERRED TO THE SERVICE
                               OF ANOTHER COUNTRY

  Throughout these rules and examples the calculations depend, not on the official
income of the contributor, but on the amount of his contribution to the Fund, so
that the transfer of a public officer to the service of another country does not affect
his pension unless the amount of his current annual contribution is varied, in
which case the proper adjustment is to be made in accordance with the preceding
rules.

                                        31.12.2021
    Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

38  Act 1904                                               2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    G.—CALCULATION OF QUANTITIES (OR TABULAR
    RESULTS) FOR AGES NOT GIVEN IN THE TABLES

   TABLE A.—The quantities are given for every age of the husband from 15 to
64; and for every fifth age of the wife from 15 to 65. Ages of husbands and wives
below or beyond are to be treated as the youngest and oldest ages given
respectively.

For the intermediate ages of wives, interpolate by first differences, as follows:

   To find the quantity corresponding to the ages of a husband and wife aged
respectively 35 and 27 next birthday.

. The quantity for ages 35 and 25 given in the Table is . ·482

    The quantity for ages 35 and 30 given in the Table is  ·507

  So that the addition of 5 years to the age of the wife results in an addition of ·025
to the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and 25.

  An addition of 2 years to the age of the wife accordingly results by proportion in
an addition of two-fifths of 0·025 to the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and
25.

  Two-fifths of ·025 = ·010, which added to ·482 gives ·492 which is the required
quantity corresponding to ages 35 and 27.

   TABLE B.—This Table is divided into 11 sections respectively applicable to
officers who will be aged next birthday 55, 56, 57 . . . up to 65, when they complete
their period of contribution. Care should in all cases be taken to turn to the section
which contains in the heading the age of the husband at the date of completion of
his period of contribution.

  In each section the quantities are given for 35 consecutive ages of the husband,
terminating at the age preceding that at which the contribution ceases, and for
every fifth age of the wife from 15 to 65.

   Ages of the wife below or beyond are to be treated as the youngest and oldest
ages given respectively. For the intermediate ages of wives interpolate by first
differences as explained above. Thus the quantity found from the first section of
the Table (age 55) corresponding to the ages of a husband and wife aged
respectively 45 and 38 next birthday is three-fifths of ·18, added to 2·39 which
gives 2·498.

  For officers who commence to contribute at an earlier age than 20 next birthday
the method of calculation given in the subjoined examples is to be followed:
               Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.       Act 1904                      39

               FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Example (1) —

. An officer aged 17 next birthday, having a wife aged 15 next birthday,
       commences to contribute. Assume that the officer is aged 20 next birthday,
       so that the quantity found from Table B will be 8·30.

   This officer receives an increment of salary at age 22 next birthday, when his
wife’s age is 20. Assume that his age is 25 next birthday, i.e., his actual age 22,
plus the difference between his actual age at entry and 20, which is 3 years. The
quantity found from Table B will be 7·00.

   Example (2) —

. An officer aged 19 next birthday commences to contribute as a bachelor,
        and 5 years later, when aged 24 next birthday, marries; his wife’s age being
        20 next birthday. The quantity found from Table A in accordance with
        Rule I (a) will be taken for the actual ages (husband 24 and wife 20) and
        will be ·683. With respect to the current annual contribution at marriage,
        assume that the officer’s age is 25 (his actual age plus one) so that the
        quantity found from Table B will be 7·00.

  This officer receives an increment of salary when aged 39, when his wife’s age
is 35. Assume as before that the ages are 40 and 35 respectively, so that the
quantity found from Table B will be 3·61.

  Note—It will be observed that this method takes accounts of the actual number
of years for which the annual contribution will run. In example (1), when the
officer receives the increment of salary at age 22 he has contributed to the fund for
5 years, so that at the expiration of 30 years his contributions will cease. Similarly
in example (2), when the officer marries at age 24, he also has contributed to the
fund for 5 years, so that although he is 2 years older than the officer in
Example (1), yet the unexpired period of contribution is the same in each case, and
the wife’s age is in each instance 20, so that no important error is involved in using
the same tabular quantity for the 2 cases.

   TABLE C.—The quantities are given for the same ages as in Table A. Ages of
husbands and wives below and beyond are to be treated as in using that Table.

   For the intermediate ages of wives interpolate by first differences as explained
above, except that it must be noted that in this Table an addition to the age of the
wife results in a deduction from the quantity given in the Table.

   To find the quantity corresponding to the ages of a husband and wife aged
respectively 35 and 27 next birthday.

. The quantity for ages 35 and 25 given in the Table is . 2·074.

                                             31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

40        Act 1904                                                 2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued                           1·974.

    The quantity for ages 35 and 30 given in the Table is

  So that the addition of 5 years to the age of the wife results in a deduction of ·100
from the quantity given in the Table for ages 35 and 25.

  An addition of 2 years to the age of the wife accordingly results by proportion in
a deduction of two-fifths of ·100 from the quantity given in the Table for ages 35
and 25.

   Two-fifths of ·100 = ·040, which deducted from 2·074 leaves 2·034 which is
the required quantity corresponding to ages 35 and 27.

                                          TABLE A

THE YEARLY PENSION, payable by monthly instalments, which a SINGLE
                         CONTRIBUTION of 1 will secure.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband              40  45  50                                60
next 15 20 25 30 35                                        55      65

birthday

    15 ·867 ·900 ·940 ·990 1·055 1·134 1·238 1·389 1·595 1·866 2·242

    16 ·844 ·876 ·916 ·964 1·028 1·106 1·208 1·353 1·550 1·812 2·188

    17 ·821 ·851 ·890 ·938 1·000 1·078 1·178 1·318 1·506 1·758 2·132

    18 ·797 ·827 ·865 ·912 ·972 1·047 1·146 1·282 1·464 1·706 2·075

    19 ·774 ·801 ·839 ·884 ·943 1·016 1·112 1·249 1·420 1·658 2·008

    20 ·751 ·779 ·814 ·858 ·916 ·987 1·080 1·214 1·378 1·608 1·938

    21 ·728 ·755 ·789 ·833 ·887 ·958 1·048 1·177 1·337 1·558 1·873

    22 ·705 ·730 ·763 ·806 ·859 ·928 1·016 1·140 1·297 1·508 1·812

    23 ·683 ·707 ·738 ·780 ·831 ·899 ·983 1·104 1·253 1·460 1·748

    24 ·660 ·683 ·713 ·754 ·803 ·869 ·952 1·067 1·212 1·411 1·686

    25 ·639 ·660 ·690 ·728 ·776 ·838 ·919 1·032 1·172 1·364 1·623

    26 ·618 ·638 ·667 ·703 ·750 ·809 ·887 ·997 1·134 1·318 1·562

    27 ·597 ·616 ·644 ·679 ·725 ·781 ·857 ·963 1·096 1·272 1·504

    28 ·577 ·595 ·622 ·655 ·699 ·753 ·826 ·930 1·059 1·229 1·449

    29 ·556 ·573 ·600 ·632 ·674 ·727 ·797 ·898 1·024 1·185 1·397

    30 ·536 ·554 ·578 ·609 ·649 ·700 ·769 ·866 ·988 1·142 1·346

    31 ·518 ·534 ·558 ·587 ·626 ·674 ·741 ·835 ·954 1·101 1·295
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              41

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband              40  45  50         55  60  65
next 15 20 25 30 35

birthday

32 ·500 ·516 ·538 ·565 ·602 ·650 ·714 ·804 ·921 1·063 1·245

33 ·482 ·497 ·519 ·545 ·580 ·627 ·688 ·776 ·888 1·025 1·199

34 ·465 ·479 ·500 ·525 ·558 ·604 ·662 ·747 ·856 ·988 1·155

35 ·448 ·462 ·482 ·507 ·538 ·582 ·638 ·720 ·825 ·953 1·114

36 ·434 ·446 ·465 ·489 ·519 ·562 ·615 ·695 ·795 ·919 1·075

37 ·419 ·430 ·449 ·472 ·501 ·542 ·593 ·670 ·766 ·886 1·038

38 ·405 ·415 ·433 ·455 ·483 ·522 ·572 ·645 ·739 ·854 1·003

39 ·391 ·401 ·417 ·439 ·466 ·503 ·551 ·621 ·712 ·824 ·969

40 ·378 ·387 ·402 ·423 ·449 ·484 ·530 ·598 ·686 ·795 ·936

41 ·365 ·374 ·388 ·408 ·433 ·466 ·509 ·575 ·661 ·768 ·906

42 ·353 ·361 ·375 ·393 ·417 ·449 ·490 ·554 ·637 ·741 ·876

43 ·341 ·349 ·362 ·379 ·402 ·432 ·472 ·533 ·614 ·716 ·848

44 ·330 ·337 ·349 ·366 ·387 ·416 ·454 ·513 ·591 ·692 ·820

45 ·318 ·325 ·337 ·353 ·373 ·401 ·438 ·494 ·570 ·667 ·792

46 ·307 ·314 ·326 ·341 ·360 ·386 ·422 ·476 ·549 ·642 ·764

47 ·297 ·304 ·315 ·329 ·347 ·373 ·407 ·459 ·529 ·618 ·738

48 ·287 ·294 ·304 ·318 ·336 ·359 ·393 ·443 ·510 ·595 ·713

49 ·278 ·284 ·294 ·307 ·323 ·347 ·378 ·427 ·491 ·572 ·689

50 ·268 ·275 ·284 ·296 ·312 ·335 ·365 ·411 ·474 ·551 ·666

51 ·260 ·266 ·275 ·286 ·301 ·323 ·352 ·396 ·457 ·531 ·644

52 ·251 ·258 ·266 ·277 ·291 ·312 ·340 ·382 ·440 ·513 ·624

53 ·244 ·250 ·258 ·268 ·282 ·301 ·328 ·369 ·425 ·496 ·604

54 ·236 ·242 ·250 ·259 ·272 ·291 ·317 ·356 ·410 ·482 ·586

55 ·228 ·234 ·242 ·251 ·264 ·281 ·306 ·344 ·396 ·467 ·568

56 ·221 ·227 ·234 ·243 ·256 ·272 ·296 ·333 ·383 ·453 ·552

57 ·215 ·220 ·227 ·236 ·248 ·263 ·286 ·322 ·372 ·440 ·536

58 ·208 ·214 ·220 ·229 ·240 ·255 ·277 ·312 ·360 ·427 ·522

59 ·202 ·207 ·214 ·222 ·233 ·247 ·268 ·302 ·350 ·415 ·508

60 ·196 ·201 ·208 ·216 ·226 ·240 ·260 ·293 ·340 ·404 ·495

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

42        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband              40                     60
next 15 20 25 30 35      45  50         55      65

birthday

    61 ·190 ·196 ·202 ·210 ·220 ·232 ·252 ·284 ·330 ·393 ·484

    62 ·184 ·190 ·196 ·204 ·214 ·226 ·244 ·275 ·321 ·383 ·473

    63 ·179 ·185 ·191 ·199 ·208 ·219 ·237 ·266 ·311 ·374 ·463

    64 ·174 ·180 ·186 ·193 ·202 ·213 ·230 ·258 ·302 ·364 ·454

                                          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 55 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband                  45             55  60  65
next 15 20 25 30 35  40      50

birthday

    20 8·30 8·60 8·98 9·47 10·11 10·90 11·92 13·40 15·21 17·75 21·40

    21 7·98 8·27 8·64 9·13 9·72 10·50 11·52 12·89 14·65 17·07 20·53

    22 7·67 7·95 8·30 8·77 9·34 10·10 11·06 12·41 14·11 16·41 19·71

    23 7·37 7·63 7·97 8·42 8·98 9·71 10·62 11·92 13·53 15·77 18·88

    24 7·07 7·33 7·63 8·07 8·59 9·30 10·18 11·42 12·97 15·09 18·04

    25 6·77 7·00 7·31 7·72 8·22 8·89 9·74 10·94 12·43 14·46 17·21

    26 6·49 6·70 7·00 7·38 7·88 8·50 9·32 10·47 11·90 13·84 16·41

    27 6·20 6·40 6·69 7·05 7·52 8·10 8·89 10·00 11·38 13·21 15·61

    28 5·92 6·10 6·38 6·72 7·17 7·72 8·48 9·54 10·87 12·60 14·87

    29 5·64 5·80 6·07 6·40 6·83 7·36 8·07 9·09 10·39 12·00 14·15

    30 5·36 5·54 5·78 6·09 6·49 7·00 7·69 8·66 9·88 11·42 13·46

    31 5·10 5·26 5·49 5·78 6·16 6·64 7·30 8·22 9·40 10·85 12·76

    32 4·84 5·00 5·22 5·48 5·84 6·31 6·92 7·80 8·93 10·31 12·08

    33 4·60 4·74 4·94 5·19 5·52 5·97 6·55 7·39 8·46 9·77 11·43

    34 4·36 4·48 4·68 4·92 5·23 5·66 6·20 7·00 8·02 9·25 10·81
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                               43

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband              40  45  50         55        60 65
next 15 20 25 30 35
                                                 8·74 10·21
birthday                                         8·26 9·66
                                                 7·77 9·11
35 4·12 4·24 4·42 4·65 4·94 5·34 5·85 6·60 7·57  7·29 8·57
                                                 6·84 8·04
36 3·90 4·00 4·18 4·39 4·66 5·05 5·53 6·24 7·14  6·39 7·53
                                                 5·96 7·03
37 3·66 3·77 3·94 4·14 4·39 4·75 5·20 5·87 6·72  5·53 6·54
                                                 5·11 6·06
38 3·46 3·55 3·70 3·88 4·13 4·46 4·88 5·51 6·31  4·70 5·57
                                                 4·27 5·07
39 3·24 3·33 3·46 3·64 3·87 4·18 4·57 5·16 5·91  3·83 4·56
                                                 3·41 4·07
40 3·04 3·11 3·24 3·40 3·61 3·89 4·26 4·81 5·51  2·99 3·58
                                                 2·57 3·10
41 2·84 2·90 3·02 3·16 3·36 3·62 3·95 4·47 5·13  2·16 2·61
                                                 1·74 2·11
42 2·63 2·69 2·80 2·93 3·11 3·35 3·66 4·15 4·75  1·32 1·61
                                                 ·89 1·09
43 2·44 2·49 2·58 2·71 2·87 3·09 3·37 3·81 4·38  ·46 ·56

44 2·24 2·29 2·37 2·48 2·63 2·83 3·08 3·49 4·02

45 2·04 2·08 2·16 2·26 2·39 2·57 2·80 3·16 3·65

46 1·84 1·88 1·94 2·03 2·15 2·31 2·52 2·84 3·28

47 1·64 1·68 1·74 1·82 1·92 2·06 2·25 2·54 2·92

48 1·44 1·48 1·53 1·59 1·68 1·81 1·98 2·23 2·56

49 1·25 1·28 1·32 1·38 1·45 1·56 1·70 1·92 2·21

50 1·05 1·08 1·11 1·16 1·22 1·31 1·43 1·61 1·86

51 ·85 ·87 ·90 ·94 ·99 1·06 1·16 1·30 1·50

52 ·65 ·67 ·69 ·71 ·75 ·80 ·88 ·98 1·14

53 ·44 ·45 ·46 ·48 ·51 ·54 ·59 ·66 ·77

54 ·22 ·23 ·24 ·25 ·26 ·28 ·30 ·34 ·39

                                                 31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

44        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 56 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40  45  50     55  60  65

    next

birthday

    21 8·02 8·31 8·68 9·17 9·77 10·55 11·54 12·95 14·72 17·15 20·62

    22 7·71 7·98 8·34 8·81 9·39 10·15 11·11 12·46 14·17 16·49 19·80

    23 7·40 7·66 8·00 8·46 9·01 9·75 10·66 11·96 13·58 15·82 18·95

    24 7·10 7·35 7·68 8·12 8·64 9·35 10·24 11·48 13·04 15·18 18·14

    25 6·81 7·04 7·35 7·76 8·27 8·94 9·80 11·00 12·50 14·54 17·31

    26 6·52 6·74 7·04 7·43 7·92 8·54 9·37 10·53 11·97 13·92 16·50

    27 6·24 6·44 6·73 7·09 7·57 8·16 8·95 10·07 11·46 13·30 15·71

    28 5·96 6·15 6·43 6·78 7·23 7·79 8·54 9·62 10·95 12·70 14·99

    29 5·69 5·87 6·13 6·46 6·89 7·43 8·14 9·18 10·46 12·11 14·28

    30 5·41 5·59 5·83 6·14 6·55 7·07 7·76 8·74 9·97 11·52 13·58

    31 5·15 5·32 5·55 5·84 6·22 6·71 7·37 8·30 9·49 10·96 12·89

    32 4·89 5·05 5·27 5·54 5·90 6·37 7·00 7·88 9·02 10·41 12·20

    33 4·65 4·79 5·00 5·26 5·59 6·05 6·64 7·48 8·57 9·89 11·57

    34 4·42 4·55 4·75 4·98 5·30 5·74 6·28 7·09 8·13 9·38 10·96

    35 4·19 4·31 4·49 4·72 5·02 5·43 5·95 6·71 7·69 8·88 10·38

    36 3·96 4·07 4·25 4·46 4·74 5·13 5·62 6·34 7·26 8·39 9·82

    37 3·74 3·84 4·01 4·21 4·47 4·84 5·30 5·98 6·84 7·91 9·28

    38 3·53 3·62 3·77 3·97 4·21 4·56 4·98 5·63 6·44 7·45 8·75

    39 3·32 3·41 3·55 3·73 3·96 4·28 4·68 5·28 6·05 7·00 8·24

    40 3·12 3·20 3·33 3·50 3·71 4·00 4·38 4·94 5·66 6·57 7·73

    41 2·92 2·99 3·11 3·26 3·46 3·73 4·08 4·60 5·29 6·14 7·25

    42 2·72 2·79 2·90 3·04 3·22 3·47 3·78 4·28 4·92 5·72 6·77
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              45

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband                      45  50     55      65
next 15 20 25 30 35 40                      60

birthday

43 2·54 2·59 2·69 2·82 2·99 3·21 3·50 3·96 4·56 5·32 6·30

44 2·34 2·39 2·48 2·60 2·75 2·96 3·23 3·64 4·20 4·91 5·82

45 2·14 2·19 2·27 2·38 2·52 2·70 2·95 3·33 3·84 4·49 5·34

46 1·95 2·00 2·07 2·16 2·28 2·45 2·68 3·03 3·49 4·08 4·86

47 1·76 1·80 1·87 1·95 2·06 2·21 2·42 2·73 3·14 3·67 4·38

48 1·58 1·62 1·67 1·75 1·84 1·98 2·16 2·44 2·80 3·27 3·92

49 1·39 1·42 1·47 1·54 1·62 1·74 1·90 2·14 2·46 2·86 3·45

50 1·20 1·23 1·27 1·33 1·40 1·50 1·64 1·84 2·12 2·47 2·98

51 1·01 1·04 1·07 1·12 1·18 1·26 1·37 1·54 1·78 2·07 2·51

52 ·82 ·84 ·87 ·90 ·95 1·02 1·11 1·25 1·44 1·68 2·04

53 ·63 ·64 ·66 ·69 ·72 ·77 ·84 ·95 1·09 1·27 1·55

54 ·43 ·44 ·45 ·47 ·49 ·52 ·57 ·64 ·74 ·87 1·06

55 ·21 ·22 ·23 ·24 ·25 ·27 ·29 ·33 ·38 ·44 ·54

                                          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 57 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40  45  50     55  60  65

next

birthday

22 7·74 8·01 8·37 8·84 9·42 10·19 11·15 12·51 14·22 16·55 19·87

23 7·43 7·70 8·04 8·49 9·05 9·78 10·71 12·02 13·65 15·90 19·04

24 7·13 7·38 7·70 8·14 8·67 9·38 10·28 11·53 13·09 15·23 18·21

25 6·84 7·07 7·39 7·80 8·31 8·98 9·84 11·05 12·56 14·61 17·39

26 6·56 6·77 7·08 7·47 7·97 8·59 9·42 10·59 12·04 13·99 16·59

27 6·28 6·48 6·78 7·14 7·62 8·21 9·01 10·13 11·53 13·38 15·82

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

46        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40  45  50     55  60  65

next

birthday

    28 6·00 6·19 6·47 6·82 7·28 7·84 8·60 9·68 11·03 12·79 15·09

    29 5·73 5·90 6·17 6·50 6·93 7·46 8·20 9·24 10·53 12·19 14·37

    30 5·46 5·63 5·88 6·19 6·60 7·12 7·82 8·80 10·05 11·61 13·69

    31 5·20 5·36 5·60 5·89 6·28 6·77 7·44 8·38 9·58 11·06 13·00

    32 4·94 5·10 5·32 5·59 5·96 6·44 7·07 7·96 9·12 10·52 12·33

    33 4·70 4·85 5·06 5·32 5·66 6·11 6·71 7·57 8·67 10·00 11·70

    34 4·47 4·60 4·80 5·04 5·36 5·80 6·36 7·18 8·22 9·49 11·09

    35 4·24 4·36 4·55 4·78 5·08 5·50 6·02 6·80 7·79 9·00 10·51

    36 4·02 4·13 4·31 4·53 4·81 5·21 5·70 6·44 7·37 8·52 9·97

    37 3·80 3·91 4·07 4·28 4·55 4·92 5·38 6·08 6·96 8·04 9·43

    38 3·60 3·69 3·85 4·04 4·30 4·64 5·08 5·74 6·57 7·59 8·92

    39 3·39 3·48 3·62 3·81 4·05 4·37 4·78 5·39 6·18 7·15 8·41

    40 3·19 3·27 3·40 3·58 3·80 4·09 4·48 5·05 5·80 6·72 7·91

    41 3·00 3·07 3·19 3·35 3·56 3·83 4·19 4·72 5·43 6·31 7·45

    42 2·81 2·87 2·98 3·13 3·32 3·57 3·90 4·41 5·07 5·90 6·98

    43 2·62 2·68 2·78 2·91 3·09 3·32 3·62 4·09 4·72 5·50 6·52

    44 2·44 2·49 2·58 2·70 2·86 3·08 3·36 3·79 4·37 5·11 6·06

    45 2·25 2·30 2·38 2·49 2·64 2·83 3·09 3·49 4·02 4·71 5·59

    46 2·06 2·11 2·18 2·28 2·41 2·59 2·83 3·19 3·68 4·30 5·12

    47 1·88 1·92 1·99 2·08 2·19 2·36 2·57 2·90 3·35 3·91 4·66

    48 1·70 1·74 1·80 1·88 1·98 2·12 2·32 2·62 3·01 3·52 4·21

    49 1·52 1·55 1·61 1·68 1·77 1·90 2·07 2·34 2·69 3·13 3·77

    50 1·34 1·37 1·42 1·48 1·56 1·67 1·82 2·05 2·36 2·75 3·32

    51 1·16 1·19 1·23 1·28 1·34 1·44 1·57 1·77 2·04 2·37 2·87

    52 ·98 1·00 1·04 1·08 1·13 1·21 1·32 1·48 1·71 2·00 2·43

    53 ·79 ·81 ·84 ·87 ·92 ·98 1·07 1·21 1·38 1·62 1·97

    54 ·61 ·62 ·64 ·67 ·70 ·75 ·81 ·92 1·05 1·24 1·51

    55 ·41 ·42 ·44 ·45 ·47 ·51 ·55 ·62 ·71 ·84 1·02

    56 ·21 ·22 ·22 ·23 ·24 ·26 ·28 ·32 ·36 ·43 ·52
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              47

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 58 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45  50      55  60  65

next

birthday

23 7·46 7·72 8·07 8·52 9·08 9·83 10·75 12·06 13·70 15·96 19·11

24 7·16 7·41 7·74 8·18 8·71 9·42 10·32 11·58 13·15 15·30 18·29

25 6·87 7·10 7·42 7·84 8·35 9·02 9·89 11·10 12·62 14·68 17·47

26 6·59 6·81 7·11 7·50 8·01 8·63 9·47 10·64 12·10 14·06 16·67

27 6·31 6·51 6·81 7·18 7·66 8·25 9·06 10·18 11·59 13·45 15·90

28 6·04 6·23 6·51 6·86 7·32 7·88 8·65 9·74 11·09 12·86 15·17

29 5·76 5·94 6·21 6·54 6·98 7·53 8·26 9·30 10·60 12·28 14·47

30 5·49 5·67 5·92 6·23 6·65 7·17 7·87 8·86 10·12 11·69 13·78

31 5·24 5·41 5·64 5·94 6·33 6·83 7·50 8·45 9·66 11·15 13·11

32 4·99 5·15 5·37 5·64 6·02 6·50 7·13 8·04 9·20 10·62 12·44

33 4·75 4·89 5·11 5·36 5·71 6·17 6·77 7·64 8·75 10·09 11·81

34 4·51 4·65 4·85 5·09 5·42 5·86 6·42 7·25 8·30 9·58 11·20

35 4·29 4·41 4·60 4·84 5·14 5·56 6·09 6·88 7·88 9·10 10·63

36 4·07 4·19 4·37 4·59 4·88 5·28 5·78 6·52 7·46 8·63 10·10

37 3·86 3·97 4·14 4·35 4·62 5·00 5·47 6·17 7·06 8·17 9·57

38 3·65 3·75 3·92 4·11 4·36 4·72 5·16 5·83 6·67 7·71 9·06

39 3·46 3·54 3·69 3·88 4·12 4·45 4·87 5·49 6·29 7·28 8·57

40 3·26 3·34 3·47 3·65 3·88 4·18 4·57 5·16 5·92 6·86 8·08

41 3·06 3·14 3·27 3·48 3·64 3·92 4·28 4·84 5·56 6·46 7·62

42 2·88 2·95 3·06 3·21 3·41 3·67 4·00 4·52 5·20 6·06 7·16

43 2·70 2·76 2·86 3·00 3·18 3·42 3·73 4·22 4·86 5·67 6·71

44 2·52 2·57 2·67 2·80 2·96 3·18 3·47 3·92 4·52 5·28 6·26

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

48        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40  45  50     55  60  65

next

birthday

    45 2·33 2·38 2·47 2·59 2·74 2·94 3·21 3·62 4·18 4·88 5·81

    46 2·15 2·20 2·28 2·38 2·52 2·70 2·96 3·34 3·84 4·49 5·35

    47 1·98 2·02 2·10 2·19 2·31 2·48 2·71 3·06 3·53 4·12 4·92

    48 1·80 1·84 1·91 2·00 2·10 2·26 2·47 2·78 3·20 3·74 4·48

    49 1·63 1·67 1·73 1·80 1·90 2·04 2·23 2·51 2·89 3·36 4·05

    50 1·46 1·50 1·55 1·61 1·70 1·82 1·99 2·24 2·58 3·00 3·62

    51 1·29 1·32 1·37 1·42 1·50 1·60 1·75 1·97 2·27 2·64 3·20

    52 1·12 1·15 1·18 1·23 1·30 1·39 1·51 1·70 1·96 2·28 2·78

    53 ·94 ·97 1·00 1·04 1·10 1·17 1·27 1·43 1·65 1·92 2·34

    54 ·77 ·79 ·81 ·84 ·89 ·95 1·03 1·16 1·33 1·57 1·90

    55 ·58 ·60 ·62 ·64 ·68 ·72 ·78 ·88 1·02 1·20 1·46

    56 ·40 ·41 ·42 ·44 ·46 ·49 ·53 ·60 ·69 ·82 ·99

    57 ·20 ·21 ·22 ·23 ·24 ·25 ·27 ·30 ·35 ·42 ·51

                                          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 59 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40  45  50     55  60  65

next

birthday

    24 7·19 7·44 7·77 8·21 8·75 9·46 10·36 11·62 13·20 15·36 18·36

    25 6·90 7·13 7·45 7·86 8·38 9·05 9·93 11·15 12·66 14·73 17·53

    26 6·62 6·84 7·15 7·54 8·04 8·67 9·51 10·69 12·15 14·13 16·75

    27 6·34 6·54 6·84 7·21 7·70 8·29 9·10 10·23 11·64 13·51 15·97

    28 6·07 6·26 6·54 6·89 7·35 7·92 8·69 9·79 11·14 12·92 15·21

    29 5·80 5·98 6·25 6·58 7·02 7·57 8·30 9·35 10·67 12·35 14·55
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              49

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45  50      55  60  65

next

birthday

30 5·53 5·71 5·96 6·28 6·70 7·22 7·92 8·93 10·19 11·77 13·88

31 5·28 5·45 5·68 5·98 6·37 6·87 7·55 8·51 9·72 11·22 13·20

32 5·02 5·19 5·41 5·68 6·06 6·54 7·18 8·09 9·26 10·69 12·53

33 4·79 4·93 5·15 5·41 5·76 6·22 6·83 7·70 8·82 10·17 11·90

34 4·56 4·70 4·90 5·15 5·47 5·92 6·49 7·32 8·39 9·68 11·32

35 4·34 4·46 4·65 4·89 5·19 5·62 6·16 6·95 7·96 9·20 10·74

36 4·12 4·24 4·42 4·64 4·93 5·34 5·84 6·60 7·55 8·73 10·21

37 3·91 4·02 4·19 4·40 4·68 5·06 5·54 6·26 7·16 8·27 9·70

38 3·71 3·80 3·96 4·16 4·43 4·79 5·24 5·91 6·77 7·82 9·19

39 3·51 3·60 3·75 3·94 4·19 4·52 4·94 5·58 6·39 7·40 8·70

40 3·32 3·40 3·54 3·72 3·95 4·26 4·66 5·25 6·03 6·99 8·23

41 3·13 3·21 3·33 3·50 3·71 4·00 4·37 4·94 5·67 6·59 7·77

42 2·95 3·02 3·14 3·29 3·49 3·75 4·10 4·63 5·32 6·20 7·33

43 2·77 2·83 2·94 3·08 3·26 3·51 3·83 4·33 4·98 5·82 6·89

44 2·59 2·65 2·75 2·88 3·04 3·27 3·57 4·04 4·65 5·44 6·45

45 2·41 2·47 2·56 2·68 2·83 3·04 3·32 3·75 4·32 5·05 6·01

46 2·24 2·29 2·37 2·48 2·62 2·81 3·07 3·47 4·00 4·67 5·56

47 2·07 2·11 2·19 2·29 2·42 2·59 2·83 3·20 3·68 4·30 5·14

48 1·90 1·94 2·01 2·10 2·22 2·38 2·60 2·93 3·38 3·94 4·72

49 1·74 1·78 1·84 1·92 2·02 2·17 2·37 2·67 3·07 3·57 4·30

50 1·57 1·61 1·66 1·73 1·82 1·96 2·14 2·41 2·77 3·22 3·90

51 1·41 1·44 1·49 1·55 1·63 1·75 1·90 2·14 2·47 2·87 3·49

52 1·24 1·27 1·31 1·37 1·44 1·54 1·68 1·89 2·18 2·53 3·08

53 1·07 1·10 1·14 1·18 1·24 1·33 1·45 1·63 1·87 2·19 2·66

54 ·91 ·93 ·96 1·00 1·05 1·12 1·22 1·38 1·58 1·86 2·26

55 ·74 ·76 ·79 ·81 ·86 ·91 ·99 1·12 1·29 1·52 1·85

56 ·56 ·58 ·60 ·62 ·65 ·69 ·75 ·85 ·98 1·16 1·41

57 ·38 ·39 ·41 ·42 ·44 ·47 ·51 ·58 ·67 ·79 ·96

58 ·20 ·20 ·21 ·22 ·23 ·24 ·26 ·30 ·34 ·41 ·50

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

50        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 60 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

    25 6·92 7·16 7·48 7·89 8·41 9·09 9·96 11·19 12·71 14·79 17·60

    26 6·64 6·86 7·17 7·57 8·07 8·71 9·55 10·73 12·20 14·18 16·81

    27 6·37 6·58 6·88 7·25 7·73 8·33 9·14 10·28 11·70 13·58 16·05

    28 6·10 6·29 6·58 6·93 7·39 7·96 8·74 9·83 11·20 12·99 15·32

    29 5·83 6·00 6·28 6·61 7·06 7·61 8·34 9·40 10·72 12·41 14·62

    30 5·56 5·73 5·99 6·31 6·73 7·26 7·96 8·97 10·24 11·83 13·94

    31 5·31 5·48 5·72 6·02 6·41 6·91 7·59 8·56 9·78 11·29 13·28

    32 5·06 5·22 5·45 5·72 6·10 6·59 7·23 8·15 9·33 10·76 12·62

    33 4·83 4·97 5·19 5·45 5·80 6·27 6·88 7·76 8·89 10·26 12·00

    34 4·60 4·74 4·94 5·19 5·52 5·97 6·54 7·38 8·46 9·76 11·41

    35 4·38 4·50 4·70 4·94 5·24 5·68 6·22 7·04 8·04 9·28 10·85

    36 4·16 4·28 4·47 4·69 4·98 5·40 5·91 6·67 7·63 8·82 10·32

    37 3·96 4·06 4·24 4·45 4·73 5·12 5·60 6·32 7·23 8·36 9·80

    38 3·76 3·85 4·02 4·22 4·48 4·85 5·30 5·99 6·85 7·92 9·31

    39 3·56 3·65 3·80 4·00 4·25 4·58 5·01 5·66 6·48 7·50 8·83

    40 3·37 3·46 3·60 3·78 4·01 4·32 4·73 5·34 6·12 7·10 8·36

    41 3·19 3·26 3·39 3·56 3·78 4·07 4·45 5·02 5·77 6·70 7·91

    42 3·01 3·08 3·20 3·36 3·56 3·83 4·18 4·72 5·43 6·32 7·48

    43 2·84 2·90 3·01 3·15 3·34 3·59 3·92 4·43 5·10 5·95 7·05

    44 2·66 2·72 2·82 2·95 3·12 3·36 3·67 4·14 4·77 5·58 6·62

    45 2·49 2·54 2·64 2·76 2·92 3·13 3·42 3·86 4·45 5·21 6·19

    46 2·31 2·36 2·45 2·56 2·70 2·90 3·17 3·58 4·13 4·83 5·75
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              51

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

47 2·15 2·20 2·27 2·38 2·51 2·69 2·94 3·32 3·83 4·47 5·34

48 1·98 2·03 2·10 2·20 2·31 2·48 2·71 3·06 3·52 4·11 4·92

49 1·82 1·87 1·93 2·02 2·12 2·28 2·49 2·80 3·23 3·76 4·52

50 1·67 1·71 1·76 1·84 1·94 2·08 2·28 2·55 2·94 3·42 4·13

51 1·51 1·55 1·60 1·66 1·75 1·88 2·06 2·30 2·65 3·08 3·74

52 1·35 1·39 1·43 1·49 1·57 1·68 1·83 2·05 2·37 2·76 3·36

53 1·20 1·23 1·27 1·32 1·38 1·48 1·61 1·81 2·09 2·44 2·97

54 1·04 1·07 1·10 1·14 1·20 1·28 1·40 1·57 1·81 2·13 2·58

55 ·88 ·90 ·93 ·97 1·02 1·08 1·18 1·33 1·53 1·80 2·19

56 ·72 ·73 ·75 ·78 ·83 ·88 ·96 1·08 1·24 1·46 1·78

57 ·55 ·56 ·58 ·60 ·63 ·67 ·73 ·82 ·95 1·12 1·37

58 ·37 ·38 ·39 ·41 ·43 ·46 ·50 ·56 ·65 ·76 ·93

59 ·19 ·20 ·20 ·21 ·22 ·23 ·25 ·29 ·33 ·39 ·48

                                          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 61 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

26 6·67 6·88 7·19 7·59 8·08 8·73 9·57 10·76 12·23 14·22 16·86

27 6·39 6·60 6·90 7·27 7·75 8·36 9·18 10·32 11·74 13·63 16·11

28 6·12 6·31 6·60 6·95 7·42 7·99 8·77 9·87 11·24 13·03 15·38

29 5·86 6·04 6·31 6·64 7·09 7·64 8·38 9·44 10·77 12·47 14·69

30 5·59 5·77 6·02 6·34 6·76 7·29 8·00 9·01 10·29 11·89 14·01

31 5·34 5·51 5·75 6·05 6·45 6·95 7·64 8·61 9·84 11·36 13·36

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

52        Act 1904                                   2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55             60 65

    next                                             10·83 12·69
                                                     10·33 12·09
birthday                                             9·83 11·49
                                                     9·36 10·93
    32 5·10 5·25 5·48 5·76 6·14 6·62 7·27 8·20 9·38  8·90 10·41
                                                     8·45 9·91
    33 4·86 5·01 5·23 5·49 5·85 6·32 6·93 7·82 8·95  8·01 9·41
                                                     7·60 8·93
    34 4·63 4·77 4·98 5·22 5·56 6·01 6·59 7·44 8·52  7·19 8·47
                                                     6·81 8·03
    35 4·41 4·54 4·74 4·98 5·29 5·72 6·27 7·07 8·10  6·43 7·61
                                                     6·07 7·18
    36 4·20 4·32 4·50 4·73 5·03 5·44 5·96 6·73 7·70  5·71 6·77
                                                     5·33 6·34
    37 4·00 4·10 4·28 4·50 4·78 5·17 5·66 6·39 7·31  4·97 5·92
                                                     4·62 5·51
    38 3·80 3·90 4·06 4·27 4·53 4·90 5·36 6·05 6·93  4·27 5·12
                                                     3·93 4·73
    39 3·60 3·69 3·85 4·05 4·30 4·64 5·08 5·73 6·56  3·60 4·35
                                                     3·28 3·98
    40 3·42 3·50 3·64 3·83 4·06 4·38 4·80 5·41 6·21  2·96 3·61
                                                     2·65 3·23
    41 3·24 3·32 3·45 3·62 3·84 4·14 4·52 5·10 5·86  2·36 2·86
                                                     2·05 2·49
    42 3·06 3·13 3·26 3·41 3·62 3·90 4·25 4·81 5·53  1·74 2·11
                                                     1·42 1·73
    43 2·89 2·95 3·06 3·21 3·40 3·66 4·00 4·52 5·20  1·08 1·33
                                                      ·74 ·91
    44 2·72 2·78 2·88 3·02 3·20 3·44 3·75 4·24 4·88   ·38 ·46

    45 2·55 2·60 2·70 2·82 2·99 3·21 3·50 3·96 4·56

    46 2·38 2·43 2·52 2·64 2·78 2·99 3·27 3·69 4·25

    47 2·22 2·27 2·35 2·46 2·59 2·78 3·04 3·43 3·96

    48 2·06 2·11 2·18 2·28 2·40 2·58 2·82 3·18 3·66

    49 1·90 1·95 2·02 2·11 2·22 2·38 2·60 2·93 3·38

    50 1·75 1·80 1·86 1·94 2·04 2·18 2·38 2·69 3·09

    51 1·60 1·64 1·70 1·77 1·86 1·99 2·17 2·44 2·82

    52 1·45 1·49 1·54 1·60 1·68 1·80 1·96 2·21 2·54

    53 1·30 1·34 1·38 1·43 1·51 1·61 1·76 1·97 2·27

    54 1·15 1·18 1·22 1·27 1·33 1·42 1·55 1·74 2·01

    55 1·00 1·03 1·06 1·10 1·16 1·23 1·34 1·51 1·74

    56 ·85 ·87 ·90 ·93 ·98 1·04 1·13 1·28 1·47

    57 ·71 ·72 ·73 ·76 ·80 ·85 ·92 1·04 1·20

    58 ·53 ·54 ·55 ·58 ·61 ·65 ·70 ·79 ·92

    59 ·36 ·37 ·38 ·40 ·42 ·44 ·48 ·54 ·62

    60 ·18 ·19 ·20 ·20 ·21 ·22 ·24 ·28 ·32
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              53

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 62 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

27 6·41 6·62 6·92 7·29 7·78 8·38 9·20 10·35 11·78 13·66 16·15

28 6·14 6·33 6·62 6·98 7·44 8·02 8·80 9·91 11·28 13·08 15·43

29 5·88 6·06 6·33 6·67 7·12 7·68 8·42 9·48 10·81 12·51 14·75

30 5·61 5·79 6·05 6·37 6·79 7·32 8·04 9·06 10·33 11·94 14·11

31 5·36 5·54 5·78 6·08 6·48 6·99 7·68 8·65 9·89 11·41 13·42

32 5·12 5·28 5·51 5·79 6·17 6·66 7·32 8·24 9·44 10·89 12·76

33 4·89 5·04 5·26 5·52 5·88 6·35 6·97 7·86 9·00 10·39 12·16

34 4·66 4·80 5·01 5·26 5·60 6·06 6·64 7·49 8·58 9·90 11·57

35 4·44 4·57 4·77 5·01 5·32 5·76 6·31 7·12 8·16 9·43 11·01

36 4·23 4·35 4·54 4·77 5·07 5·48 6·00 6·78 7·76 8·97 10·49

37 4·03 4·14 4·32 4·54 4·82 5·21 5·71 6·44 7·37 8·52 9·99

38 3·84 3·94 4·10 4·31 4·58 4·95 5·42 6·12 7·00 8·10 9·51

39 3·64 3·73 3·89 4·09 4·34 4·69 5·13 5·79 6·63 7·68 9·03

40 3·46 3·54 3·69 3·88 4·12 4·44 4·85 5·48 6·28 7·28 8·58

41 3·28 3·36 3·49 3·67 3·89 4·19 4·58 5·17 5·94 6·90 8·14

42 3·11 3·18 3·30 3·47 3·68 3·96 4·32 4·88 5·61 6·53 7·72

43 2·94 3·00 3·12 3·27 3·46 3·72 4·06 4·59 5·29 6·17 7·30

44 2·77 2·83 2·94 3·08 3·26 3·50 3·82 4·32 4·97 5·82 6·90

45 2·60 2·66 2·76 2·89 3·05 3·28 3·58 4·04 4·66 5·45 6·48

46 2·44 2·49 2·58 2·70 2·85 3·06 3·35 3·78 4·36 5·09 6·06

47 2·28 2·33 2·42 2·53 2·66 2·86 3·13 3·53 4·07 4·75 5·67

48 2·13 2·18 2·26 2·36 2·49 2·67 2·92 3·29 3·79 4·42 5·30

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

54        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

    next

birthday

    49 1·98 2·03 2·10 2·19 2·31 2·48 2·70 3·05 3·51 4·08 4·92

    50 1·83 1·88 1·94 2·02 2·12 2·28 2·49 2·80 3·23 3·76 4·54

    51 1·68 1·72 1·78 1·86 1·95 2·09 2·28 2·57 2·96 3·44 4·18

    52 1·54 1·58 1·63 1·70 1·79 1·91 2·08 2·34 2·70 3·14 3·82

    53 1·40 1·43 1·48 1·54 1·62 1·73 1·88 2·12 2·44 2·85 3·47

    54 1·26 1·29 1·33 1·38 1·45 1·55 1·68 1·90 2·18 2·56 3·12

    55 1·11 1·14 1·18 1·22 1·28 1·37 1·49 1·67 1·93 2·27 2·76

    56 ·97 ·99 1·02 1·06 1·11 1·19 1·29 1·45 1·67 1·98 2·41

    57 ·82 ·84 ·87 ·90 ·94 1·00 1·09 1·23 1·42 1·68 2·04

    58 ·67 ·69 ·71 ·73 ·77 ·82 ·89 1·00 1·16 1·37 1·68

    59 ·51 ·52 ·54 ·56 ·59 ·63 ·68 ·76 ·88 1·05 1·29

    60 ·35 ·36 ·37 ·38 ·40 ·43 ·46 ·52 ·60 ·72 ·88

    61 ·18 ·18 ·19 ·20 ·21 ·22 ·24 ·27 ·31 ·37 ·45

                                          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 63 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband
  next 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65

birthday

    28 6·17 6·36 6·65 7·00 7·47 8·05 8·84 9·94 11·32 13·13 15·50

    29 5·90 6·09 6·36 6·70 7·14 7·70 8·45 9·52 10·85 12·56 14·80

    30 5·63 5·81 6·07 6·39 6·82 7·35 8·07 9·09 10·38 11·99 14·13

    31 5·38 5·56 5·80 6·10 6·50 7·01 7·70 8·68 9·92 11·45 13·47

    32 5·14 5·31 5·54 5·82 6·20 6·70 7·35 8·28 9·48 10·94 12·83

    33 4·91 5·06 5·29 5·55 5·91 6·39 7·01 7·90 9·05 10·44 12·22
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                               55

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband                                           60 65
  next 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55
                                                 9·95 11·63
birthday                                         9·48 11·08
                                                 9·04 10·57
34 4·69 4·83 5·04 5·29 5·62 6·08 6·67 7·52 8·62  8·59 10·07
                                                 8·16 9·59
35 4·47 4·60 4·80 5·04 5·36 5·80 6·35 7·16 8·21  7·75 9·12
                                                 7·36 8·67
36 4·26 4·38 4·57 4·80 5·10 5·53 6·05 6·83 7·81  6·98 8·24
                                                 6·62 7·83
37 4·06 4·17 4·35 4·57 4·86 5·26 5·75 6·50 7·43  6·27 7·42
                                                 5·91 7·02
38 3·87 3·97 4·14 4·35 4·62 5·00 5·47 6·17 7·06  5·55 6·60
                                                 5·20 6·19
39 3·68 3·77 3·93 4·13 4·39 4·74 5·18 5·84 6·70  4·87 5·81
                                                 4·54 5·43
40 3·50 3·58 3·73 3·92 4·16 4·48 4·91 5·54 6·35  4·20 5·06
                                                 3·90 4·71
41 3·32 3·40 3·54 3·71 3·94 4·24 4·64 5·24 6·02  3·59 4·36
                                                 3·30 4·01
42 3·15 3·22 3·35 3·51 3·72 4·01 4·38 4·94 5·69  3·01 3·67
                                                 2·75 3·34
43 2·98 3·05 3·17 3·32 3·52 3·78 4·13 4·66 5·37  2·47 3·01
                                                 2·19 2·66
44 2·82 2·88 2·99 3·13 3·31 3·56 3·88 4·39 5·06  1·91 2·33
                                                 1·62 1·98
45 2·65 2·71 2·81 2·94 3·11 3·34 3·65 4·12 4·75  1·32 1·62
                                                 1·02 1·24
46 2·49 2·55 2·64 2·76 2·91 3·13 3·42 3·86 4·45  ·70 ·86
                                                 ·36 ·44
47 2·34 2·39 2·48 2·59 2·73 2·93 3·20 3·62 4·17

48 2·19 2·24 2·32 2·42 2·55 2·74 2·99 3·38 3·89

49 2·04 2·09 2·16 2·26 2·37 2·55 2·78 3·14 3·61

50 1·90 1·94 2·01 2·10 2·20 2·36 2·58 2·91 3·35

51 1·76 1·80 1·86 1·94 2·04 2·18 2·38 2·68 3·09

52 1·62 1·66 1·71 1·78 1·87 2·00 2·18 2·46 2·83

53 1·48 1·52 1·57 1·63 1·71 1·83 1·99 2·24 2·58

54 1·34 1·38 1·42 1·48 1·55 1·66 1·80 2·03 2·34

55 1·21 1·24 1·28 1·33 1·40 1·49 1·62 1·83 2·10

56 1·07 1·10 1·13 1·17 1·23 1·32 1·43 1·61 1·85

57 ·93 ·96 ·99 1·02 1·08 1·14 1·24 1·40 1·61

58 ·79 ·81 ·84 ·87 ·91 ·97 1·05 1·18 1·37

59 ·64 ·66 ·68 ·71 ·74 ·79 ·86 ·96 1·12

60 ·49 ·50 ·52 ·54 ·57 ·60 ·65 ·74 ·86

61 ·34 ·35 ·36 ·37 ·39 ·41 ·45 ·51 ·59

62 ·17 ·18 ·18 ·19 ·20 ·21 ·23 ·26 ·30

                                                 31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

56        Act 1904                              2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 64 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

    29 5·92 6·10 6·37 6·71 7·16 7·72 8·47 9·54 10·88 12·60 14·85

    30 5·66 5·84 6·09 6·41 6·84 7·38 8·10 9·12 10·41 12·03 14·18

    31 5·40 5·58 5·82 6·13 6·53 7·04 7·73 8·71 9·96 11·50 13·52

    32 5·16 5·33 5·56 5·84 6·22 6·72 7·38 8·32 9·52 10·99 12·88

    33 4·93 5·08 5·31 5·57 5·93 6·41 7·04 7·94 9·09 10·48 12·27

    34 4·71 4·85 5·06 5·32 5·65 6·12 6·70 7·56 8·67 10·00 11·69

    35 4·50 4·63 4·82 5·07 5·39 5·83 6·39 7·21 8·26 9·54 11·15

    36 4·29 4·41 4·60 4·83 5·14 5·56 6·09 6·87 7·86 9·09 10·63

    37 4·09 4·20 4·38 4·60 4·89 5·29 5·79 6·54 7·48 8·65 10·13

    38 3·90 4·00 4·17 4·38 4·65 5·03 5·51 6·21 7·11 8·22 9·66

    39 3·71 3·80 3·96 4·16 4·42 4·78 5·23 5·90 6·76 7·82 9·20

    40 3·53 3·61 3·76 3·95 4·20 4·52 4·95 5·58 6·40 7·42 8·74

    41 3·36 3·44 3·57 3·75 3·98 4·28 4·68 5·29 6·07 7·05 8·32

    42 3·18 3·26 3·39 3·55 3·77 4·05 4·42 5·00 5·75 6·69 7·91

    43 3·02 3·09 3·21 3·36 3·56 3·83 4·18 4·72 5·44 6·35 7·51

    44 2·86 2·92 3·03 3·17 3·36 3·61 3·94 4·45 5·13 6·00 7·11

    45 2·70 2·76 2·86 2·99 3·16 3·40 3·71 4·19 4·83 5·65 6·71

    46 2·53 2·59 2·69 2·81 2·97 3·19 3·48 3·93 4·53 5·30 6·31

    47 2·38 2·44 2·53 2·64 2·78 2·99 3·27 3·69 4·25 4·97 5·93

    48 2·24 2·29 2·37 2·48 2·61 2·80 3·06 3·46 3·98 4·64 5·56

    49 2·10 2·14 2·22 2·32 2·44 2·62 2·86 3·22 3·71 4·31 5·20

    50 1·96 2·00 2·07 2·16 2·27 2·44 2·66 3·00 3·45 4·02 4·85
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.  Act 1904                              57

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

51 1·83 1·87 1·93 2·01 2·11 2·26 2·47 2·78 3·20 3·72 4·52

52 1·69 1·73 1·78 1·86 1·95 2·09 2·28 2·56 2·96 3·44 4·19

53 1·55 1·59 1·64 1·71 1·80 1·92 2·09 2·35 2·71 3·16 3·86

54 1·42 1·46 1·51 1·56 1·64 1·76 1·91 2·15 2·48 2·91 3·54

55 1·29 1·33 1·37 1·42 1·49 1·59 1·73 1·95 2·24 2·64 3·22

56 1·16 1·19 1·23 1·28 1·34 1·43 1·55 1·75 2·01 2·39 2·90

57 1·03 1·06 1·09 1·13 1·19 1·26 1·37 1·55 1·78 2·11 2·57

58 ·90 ·92 ·95 ·99 1·04 1·10 1·19 1·35 1·55 1·84 2·25

59 ·76 ·78 ·81 ·84 ·88 ·93 1·01 1·14 1·32 1·56 1·92

60 ·62 ·64 ·66 ·69 ·72 ·76 ·83 ·93 1·08 1·28 1·57

61 ·48 ·49 ·51 ·53 ·55 ·58 ·63 ·71 ·83 ·99 1·22

62 ·33 ·34 ·35 ·36 ·38 ·40 ·43 ·49 ·57 ·68 ·84

63 ·17 ·17 ·18 ·19 ·20 ·21 ·22 ·25 ·29 ·35 ·44

                                          TABLE B

This section of Table B is applicable only to the case of Officers who will be
   aged 65 next birthday, when they complete their period of contribution.

   The Yearly Pension, payable by Monthly Instalments, which a YEARLY
CONTRIBUTION of 1, payable also by Monthly Instalments, will secure. The
Yearly Contribution is to cease on the termination of 35 years from the date of the
Officer’s first Contribution or on his attaining the age of 65.

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55  60  65

next

birthday

30 5·67 5·86 6·11 6·43 6·86 7·40 8·12 9·15 10.44 12.07 14.23

31 5·42 5·60 5·84 6·14 6·55 7·06 7·76 8·74 9·99 11.53 13.56

32 5·18 5·35 5·58 5·86 6·25 6·75 7·41 8·35 9·56 11.03 12.93

33 4·95 5·10 5·33 5·59 5·95 6·44 7·06 7·97 9·12 10.52 12.31

34 4·73 4·87 5·08 5·34 5·68 6·14 6·73 7·60 8·71 10.05 11.74

                                            31.12.2021
          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

58        Act 1904                                     2020 Ed.

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of    AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50       55              60 65

    next                                               9·59 11.20
                                                       9·14 10.69
birthday                                               8·70 10.20
                                                       8·27 9·72
    35 4·52 4·65 4·85 5·10 5·42 5·86 6·42 7·24 8·28    7·88 9·26
                                                       7·49 8·82
    36 4·31 4·43 4·62 4·86 5·16 5·59 6·12 6·91 7·90    7·12 8·40
                                                       6·76 7·99
    37 4·11 4·23 4·41 4·63 4·92 5·32 5·82 6·58 7·52    6·42 7·60
                                                       6·07 7·20
    38 3·92 4·02 4·19 4·41 4·68 5·06 5·54 6·25 7·16    5·73 6·81
                                                       5·38 6·41
    39 3·74 3·83 3·99 4·19 4·46 4·81 5·26 5·94 6·80    5·06 6·04
                                                       4·74 5·67
    40 3·56 3·65 3·79 3·99 4·23 4·56 4·99 5·63 6·46    4·42 5·32
                                                       4·12 4·98
    41 3·39 3·47 3·60 3·78 4·01 4·32 4·72 5·34 6·13    3·84 4·66
                                                       3·56 4·34
    42 3·22 3·29 3·42 3·59 3·80 4·10 4·47 5·05 5·81    3·30 4·02
                                                       3·05 3·71
    43 3·06 3·12 3·24 3·40 3·60 3·87 4·23 4·78 5·50    2·80 3·40
                                                       2·54 3·10
    44 2·90 2·96 3·07 3·21 3·40 3·66 3·99 4·51 5·19    2·29 2·79
                                                       2·04 2·49
    45 2·74 2·80 2·90 3·03 3·21 3·44 3·76 4·25 4·89    1·78 2·18
                                                       1·51 1·85
    46 2·57 2·63 2·73 2·85 3·01 3·24 3·54 3·99 4·60    1·24 1·53
                                                       ·96 1·18
    47 2·42 2·48 2·57 2·69 2·84 3·05 3·33 3·76 4·33    ·66 ·82

    48 2·28 2·34 2·42 2·53 2·66 2·86 3·12 3·52 4·06

    49 2·14 2·20 2·27 2·37 2·50 2·68 2·93 3·30 3·80

    50 2·00 2·06 2·13 2·22 2·33 2·50 2·73 3·08 3·54

    51 1·88 1·92 1·99 2·07 2·18 2·33 2·54 2·86 3·30

    52 1·75 1·79 1·85 1·92 2·02 2·17 2·36 2·65 3·06

    53 1·62 1·66 1·71 1·78 1·87 2·00 2·18 2·45 2·83

    54 1·49 1·53 1·58 1·64 1·72 1·84 2·00 2·25 2·60

    55 1·37 1·40 1·45 1·50 1·58 1·68 1·83 2·06 2·37

    56 1·25 1·28 1·32 1·37 1·44 1·53 1·66 1·87 2·16

    57 1·12 1·15 1·18 1·23 1·29 1·37 1·49 1·68 1·94

    58    ·99 1·02 1·05 1·09 1·15 1·22 1·32 1·49 1·72

    59    ·86 ·89 ·92 ·95 1·00 1·06 1·15 1·29 1·50

    60    ·74 ·76 ·78 ·81 ·85 ·90 ·97 1·10 1·28

    61    ·60 ·62 ·64 ·66 ·69 ·73 ·80 ·90 1·04

    62    ·47 ·48 ·49 ·51 ·53 ·56 ·61 ·69 ·80

    63    ·32 ·33 ·34 ·35 ·37 ·39 ·42 ·47 ·55
                  Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

2020 Ed.                  Act 1904                       59

                  FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of                AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50                55  60  65

next

birthday

64        ·16 ·17 ·17 ·18 ·19 ·20 ·22 ·24 ·28 ·34 ·43

                                          TABLE C

The Single Contribution which will secure a YEARLY PENSION of 1, payable
                                 by Monthly Instalments.

Age of                AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15  20  25  30  35  40    45  50       55  60  65

next

birthday

15 1·154 1·111 1·064 1·010 ·948 ·882 ·808 ·720 ·627 ·536 ·446

16 1·185 1·142 1·092 1·037 ·973 ·904 ·828 ·739 ·645 ·552 ·457

17 1·218 1·175 1·123 1·066 1·000 ·928 ·849 ·759 ·664 ·569 ·469

18 1·254 1·209 1·156 1·097 1·029 ·955 ·873 ·780 ·683 ·586 ·482

19 1·291 1·246 1·192 1·132 1·060 ·984 ·899 ·801 ·704 ·603 ·498

20 1·331 1·284 1·229 1·166 1·092 1·013 ·926 ·824 ·726 ·622 ·516

21 1·373 1·325 1·268 1·201 1·127 1·044 ·954 ·850 ·748 ·642 ·534

22 1·418 1·369 1·310 1·241 1·164 1·077 ·984 ·877 ·772 ·663 ·552

23 1·465 1·415 1·355 1·282 1·203 1·112 1·017 ·906 ·798 ·685 ·572

24 1·515 1·464 1·402 1·326 1·245 1·151 1·051 ·937 ·825 ·709 ·593

25 1·566 1·515 1·450 1·373 1·289 1·193 1·088 ·969 ·853 ·733 ·616

26 1·619 1·568 1·500 1·422 1·333 1·236 1·127 1·003 ·882 ·759 ·640

27 1·675 1·623 1·552 1·473 1·380 1·281 1·167 1·038 ·912 ·786 ·665

28 1·734 1·681 1·608 1·526 1·431 1·328 1·210 1·075 ·944 ·814 ·690

29 1·797 1·742 1·668 1·583 1·484 1·376 1·255 1·114 ·977 ·844 ·716

30 1·864 1·805 1·730 1·643 1·540 1·428 1·301 1·155 1·012 ·876 ·743

31 1·932 1·871 1·793 1·704 1·599 1·483 1·350 1·198 1·048 ·908 ·772

32 2·002 1·940 1·859 1·770 1·661 1·538 1·401 1·243 1·086 ·941 ·803

33 2·074 2·013 1·928 1·836 1·725 1·596 1·454 1·289 1·126 ·976 ·834

34 2·149 2·087 2·000 1·904 1·791 1·655 1·510 1·338 1·168 1·012 ·866

35 2·226 2·164 2·074 1·974 1·858 1·716 1·567 1·389 1·212 1·049 ·898

36 2·305 2·243 2·150 2·046 1·926 1·779 1·625 1·439 1·258 1·088 ·930

                                                     31.12.2021
                  Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension

60                        Act 1904                       2020 Ed.

                  FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Age of                AGE OF WIFE NEXT BIRTHDAY

husband   15  20  25  30  35  40    45  50       55  60  65

next

birthday

    37 2·387 2·324 2·229 2·121 1·996 1·845 1·686 1·493 1·305 1·129 ·963

    38 2·471 2·408 2·311 2·199 2·069 1·914 1·749 1·550 1·354 1·171 ·997

    39 2·558 2·496 2·396 2·280 2·145 1·987 1·816 1·610 1·405 1·214 1·032

    40 2·647 2·584 2·484 2·364 2·226 2·065 1·887 1·673 1·458 1·258 1·068

    41 2·738 2·675 2·574 2·452 2·311 2·145 1·963 1·738 1·513 1·303 1·104

    42 2·832 2·770 2·667 2·542 2·398 2·227 2·041 1·806 1·570 1·349 1·141

    43 2·931 2·868 2·763 2·636 2·488 2·313 2·120 1·876 1·629 1·396 1·179

    44 3·033 2·968 2·862 2·733 2·582 2·402 2·201 1·948 1·691 1·446 1·219

    45 3·141 3·073 2·964 2·833 2·679 2·494 2·284 2·023 1·755 1·500 1·262

    46 3·253 3·182 3·070 2·936 2·780 2·588 2·369 2·099 1·821 1·558 1·308

    47 3·367 3·292 3·179 3·041 2·883 2·683 2·456 2·177 1·889 1·617 1·355

    48 3·484 3·404 3·290 3·148 2·989 2·782 2·547 2·258 1·961 1·680 1·403

    49 3·603 3·520 3·403 3·260 3·097 2·883 2·642 2·342 2·035 1·750 1·452

    50 3·724 3·638 3·519 3·375 3·209 2·989 2·739 2·431 2·111 1·815 1·502

    51 3·849 3·757 3·638 3·493 3·320 3·098 2·841 2·525 2·190 1·883 1·552

    52 3·977 3·878 3·759 3·613 3·435 3·208 2·945 2·619 2·271 1·950 1·603

    53 4·107 4·004 3·882 3·735 3·552 3·321 3·049 2·713 2·353 2·017 1·655

    54 4·239 4·133 4·008 3·860 3·671 3·437 3·158 2·808 2·437 2·074 1·707

    55 4·376 4·265 4·137 3·988 3·792 3·555 3·269 2·905 2·523 2·141 1·759

    56 4·516 4·401 4·269 4·115 3·914 3·674 3·382 3·002 2·608 2·208 1·812

    57 4·658 4·540 4·402 4·242 4·036 3·796 3·497 3·101 2·691 2·275 1·865

    58 4·804 4·680 4·536 4·370 4·160 3·920 3·613 3·203 2·774 2·342 1·917

    59 4·954 4·822 4·673 4·500 4·287 4·046 3·731 3·308 2·858 2·409 1·968

    60 5·108 4·966 4·812 4·632 4·417 4·174 3·850 3·414 2·942 2·476 2·018

    61 5·264 5·112 4·952 4·765 4·548 4·302 3·971 3·522 3·027 2·543 2·067

    62 5·422 5·259 5·093 4·898 4·680 4·431 4·095 3·638 3·117 2·610 2·114

    63 5·582 5·408 5·235 5·031 4·813 4·560 4·222 3·754 3·213 2·677 2·160

    64 5·745 5·558 5·387 5·180 4·947 4·689 4·352 3·873 3·314 2·744 2·204
2020 Ed.          Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension                 61
                                Act 1904
                                                          Section 2
                     SECOND SCHEDULE

                  LAWS DEFINING “ENTITLED OFFICER”

First column               .  Second column            .

Retirement from the . Sections 3 and 5.                .

Public            Service

(Compensation)

Ordinance         1956

(Ordinance 43 of 1956).

The Federation of Malaya      Tenth Schedule, Part I,
                              paragraphs 3 and 5.
Agreement         1948

(F.M.G.N. 6/48).

                                                          31.12.2021
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                WIDOWS’ AND ORPHANS’ PENSION

                                   ACT 1904

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
      THE WIDOWS AND ORPHANS’ PENSION

                 FUND ORDINANCE, 1885
                 (ORDINANCE I OF 1885)

1. Ordinance I of 1885 — The Widows and Orphans’ Pension Fund
                                  Ordinance, 1885

Bill                  : G.N. No. 457/1884

First Reading         : 30 October 1884

Second Reading        : 4 November 1884

Notice of Amendments  : 22 January 1885

Third Reading         : 22 January 1885

Commencement          : 1 March 1885

2. Ordinance X of 1888 — The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund
                                   Ordinance Amendment Ordinance 1888

Bill                  : G.N. No. 553/1888

First Reading         : 4 October 1888

Second Reading        : 18 October 1888

Notice of Amendments  : 14 November 1888

Third Reading         : 15 November 1888

Commencement          : 15 November 1888

                                            31.12.2021
                      ii

3. Ordinance XIV of 1891 — An Ordinance to amend “The Widows’ and
                                       Orphans’ Pension Fund Ordinance 1885”

Bill                  : G.N. No. 514/1891

First Reading         : 15 October 1891

Second Reading        : 5 November 1891

Third Reading         : 12 November 1891

Commencement          : 12 November 1891

4. Ordinance XV of 1892 — The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund
                                     Ordinance Amendment Ordinance 1892

Bill                  : G.N. No. 646/1892
First Reading         : 1 December 1892

Second and Third Readings : 8 December 1892

Commencement          : 8 December 1892

5. Ordinance IX of 1896 — The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund
                                     Ordinance 1896

Bill                  : G.N. No. 312/1896

First Reading         : 14 May 1896

Second Reading        : 22 May 1896

Third Reading         : 18 June 1896

Commencement          : 18 June 1896

                             PART 2
      THE WIDOWS AND ORPHANS’ PENSION

                 FUND ORDINANCE 1901
                 (ORDINANCE V OF 1901)

6. Ordinance V of 1901 — The Widows and Orphans’ Pension Fund
                                   Ordinance 1901

Bill                  : G.N. No. 962/1900

First Reading         : 28 August 1900

Second Reading        : 8 January 1901

Notice of Amendments  : 12 March 1901

Third Reading         : 26 March 1901

Commencement          : 1 May 1901
                      iii

7. Ordinance VI of 1902 — The Widows and Orphans Pension Fund
                                     Ordinance 1901 Amendment Ordinance 1902

Bill                  : G.N. No. 25/1902

First Reading         : 21 January 1902

Second Reading        : 4 February 1902

Third Reading         : 25 February 1902

Commencement          : 25 February 1902

8. Ordinance XXX of 1902 — The Widows and Orphans Pension Fund
                                        Ordinance 1901 Amendment Ordinance
                                        1902 No. II

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1028/1902

First Reading         : 15 August 1902

Second Reading        : 22 August 1902

Notice of Amendments  : 7 November 1902

Third Reading         : 7 November 1902

Commencement          : 7 November 1902

9. Ordinance X of 1903 — The Widows and Orphans Pension Fund
                                   Ordinance 1901 Amendment Ordinance 1903

Bill                  : G.N. No. 626/1903
First Reading         : 5 June 1903

Second Reading        : 12 June 1903
Amendments to Bill    : 19 June 1903
Third Reading         : 26 June 1903
Commencement          : 26 June 1903

                                   PART 3
               WIDOWS’ AND ORPHANS’ PENSION

                                  ACT 1904
                       (2020 REVISED EDITION)

10. Ordinance XIX of 1904 — The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
                                        Ordinance 1904

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1228/1904

First Reading         : 4 November 1904
                      iv

Second Reading        : 11 November 1904

Notice of Amendments  : 2 December 1904

Third Reading         : 2 December 1904

Commencement          : 1 January 1905

11. Ordinance XIV of 1905 — The Widows and Orphans Pensions Ordinance
                                      1904 Amendment Ordinance 1905

Bill                  : G.N. No. 672/1905

First Reading         : 19 May 1905

Second Reading        : 26 May 1905

Third Reading         : 16 June 1905

Commencement          : 16 June 1905

12. Ordinance IV of 1906 — The Widows and Orphans Pension Ordinance
                                      1904 Amendment Ordinance 1906

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1542/1905

First Reading         : 22 December 1905

Second Reading        : 19 January 1906

Third Reading         : 16 February 1906

Commencement          : 16 February 1906

13. Ordinance XIV of 1906 — The Widows and Orphans Pension Ordinance
                                       1904 Amendment Ordinance 1906 No. II

Bill                  : G.N. No. 595/1906

First Reading         : 22 June 1906

Second Reading        : 29 June 1906

Third Reading         : 13 July 1906

Commencement          : 13 July 1906

14. Ordinance VII of 1908 — The Widows and Orphans Pension Ordinance
                                       1904 Amendment Ordinance 1908

Bill                  : G.N. No. 362/1908

First Reading         : 1 May 1908

Second Reading        : 22 May 1908

Third Reading         : 21 August 1908
                      v

Commencement          : 27 August 1908

15. Ordinance XXXI of 1914 — The Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension
                                           (Amendment) Ordinance 1914

Bill                  : G.N. No. 716/1914

First Reading         : 31 July 1914

Second Reading        : 2 October 1914

Third Reading         : 4 December 1914

Commencement          : 18 December 1914

16. Ordinance 3 of 1917 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance 1917

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1080/1916

First Reading         : 29 September 1916

Second Reading        : 10 November 1916

Third Reading         : 8 January 1917

Commencement          : 13 January 1917

17. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 89 (Widows’ and Orphans’
                                     Pension)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

18. Ordinance 32 of 1922 — Statute Laws (Revised Edition) Amendment
                                      Ordinance, 1922

     (Amendments made by section 6 of the above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1158/1922

First Reading         : 14 August 1922

Second Reading        : 11 September 1922

Notice of Amendments  : 23 October 1922

Third Reading         : 23 October 1922

Commencement          : 28 November 1921 (section 6)

19. Ordinance 2 of 1927 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1927

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2044/1926

First Reading         : 13 December 1926

Second and Third Readings : 7 February 1927
                      vi

Commencement          : 1 January 1926

20. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 89 (Widows’ and Orphans’
                                     Pension)

Operation             : 1 August 1926

21. Ordinance 2 of 1929 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1929

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2131/1928

First Reading         : 10 December 1928

Second Reading        : 28 January 1929

Notice of Amendments  : 28 January 1929

Third Reading         : 25 March 1929

Commencement          : 25 April 1929

22. Ordinance 2 of 1933 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1933

Bill                  : G.N. No. 2151/1932

First Reading         : 5 December 1932

Second Reading        : 16 January 1933

Notice of Amendments  : 16 January 1933

Third Reading         : 16 January 1933

Commencement          : 7 February 1933

23. Ordinance 63 of 1935 — Statute Law Revision Ordinance, 1935
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (i) of the First Schedule to the
     above Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3043/1935

First Reading         : 20 November 1935

Second Reading        : 9 December 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1935

Third Reading         : 9 December 1935

Commencement          : 31 December 1935 (section 2 read
                            with item (i) of the First Schedule)
                      vii

24. 1936 Revised Edition — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 79)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

25. Ordinance 1 of 1937 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1937

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3285/1936

First Reading         : 7 December 1936

Second and Third Readings : 15 February 1937

Commencement          : 3 March 1937

26. Ordinance 1 of 1938 — Treasury Officers (Titles and Powers) Ordinance,
                                   1938

     (Amendments made by section 2(1) read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3460/1937

First Reading         : 15 December 1937
Second Reading        : 14 February 1938

Notice of Amendments  : 14 February 1938

Third Reading         : 14 February 1938

Commencement          : 7 March 1938 (section 2(1) read with
                            the Schedule)

27. Ordinance 35 of 1952 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                      Ordinance, 1952

Bill                  : 35/1952

First Reading         : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement          : 1 January 1955

28. Ordinance 14 of 1958 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment
                                      No. 2) Ordinance, 1958

Bill                  : 144/1958

First Reading         : 22 April 1958

Second Reading        : 11 June 1958
Notice of Amendments  : 11 June 1958

Third Reading         : 11 June 1958
                      viii

Commencement          : 1 January 1955 (sections 4 and 5)
                            1 September 1958 (sections 1 to 3 and
                            6 to 10)

29. 1955 Revised Edition — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Ordinance
                                     (Chapter 61)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

30. Ordinance 3 of 1958 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1958

Bill                  : 126/1957

First Reading         : 13 December 1957

Second and Third Readings : 8 January 1958

Commencement          : 20 January 1958

31. G.N. No. S 223/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of Laws)
                                    Order, 1959

Commencement          : 3 June 1959

32. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

33. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 178/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 4) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

34. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

35. Ordinance 6 of 1964 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1964

Bill                  : 21/1964
                      ix

First Reading         : 10 June 1964

Second and Third Readings : 2 November 1964

Commencement          : 2 March 1961

36. Act 18 of 1965 — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension (Amendment) Act,
                             1965

Bill                  : 49/1965

First Reading         : 13 December 1965

Second and Third Readings : 29 December 1965

Commencement          : 1 April 1965

37. Act 14 of 1969 — Statute Law Revision Act, 1969
     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
     Act)

Bill                  : 22/1969

First Reading         : 15 October 1969

Second Reading        : 22 December 1969

Notice of Amendments  : 22 December 1969

Third Reading         : 22 December 1969

Commencement          : 2 January 1970 (section 2 read with
                            the First Schedule)

38. 1970 Revised Edition — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Act
                                     (Chapter 58)

Operation             : 1 April 1971

39. 1985 Revised Edition — Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Act
                                     (Chapter 350)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

40. Act 8 of 1995 — Pension Fund Act 1995
     (Amendments made by section 17 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 2/1995

First Reading         : 23 January 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 1995

Commencement          : 1 April 1995 (section 17)
                             x

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
