THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             FOREIGN LIMITATION PERIODS
                               ACT 2012

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                 2020 Ed.

         Foreign Limitation Periods
                   Act 2012

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Application of foreign limitation law
     4.  Exceptions
     5.  Foreign judgments on limitation points
     6.  Meaning of law relating to limitation
     7.  Application to Government
     8.  Transitional provision

An Act to provide for any law relating to the limitation of actions to
  be treated, for the purposes of cases in which effect is given to
  foreign law or to determinations by foreign courts, as a matter of
  substance rather than as a matter of procedure.

                                                                  [1 June 2012]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Foreign Limitation Periods Act 2012.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, “country” includes a State or territory.

Application of foreign limitation law
 3.—(1) Subject to the following provisions of this Act, where in

any action or proceedings in a court in Singapore the law of any other
country is required (in accordance with rules of private international
law applicable by any such court) to be applied to determine any
matter —

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Foreign Limitation Periods

2  Act 2012                    2020 Ed.

   (a) the law of that other country relating to limitation applies
        in respect of that matter for the purposes of the action or
        proceedings; and

   (b) the law of Singapore relating to limitation does not so
        apply.

 (2) Where a foreign law is required to be considered for the purpose
of actionability under a choice of law rule, that foreign law is deemed
to apply under subsection (1).

 (3) For the purposes of any law applicable by virtue of
subsection (1)(a), the law of Singapore determines whether, and
the time at which, proceedings have been commenced in respect of
any matter.

 (4) A court in Singapore, in exercising in pursuance of
subsection (1)(a) any discretion conferred by the law of any other
country, is so far as practicable to exercise that discretion in the
manner in which it is exercised in comparable cases by the courts of
that other country.

 (5) In this section, “law”, in relation to any country, excludes rules
of private international law applicable by the courts of that country or,
in the case of Singapore, this Act.

Exceptions

 4.—(1) In any case in which the application of section 3 would to
any extent conflict with public policy, that section does not apply to
the extent that its application would so conflict.

 (2) The application of section 3 in relation to any action or
proceedings conflicts with public policy to the extent that its
application would cause undue hardship to a person who is, or
might be made, a party to the action or proceedings.

 (3) Where, under a law applicable by virtue of section 3 for the
purposes of any action or proceedings, a limitation period is or may
be extended or interrupted in respect of the absence of a party to the
action or proceedings from any specified jurisdiction or country, so
much of that law as provides for the extension or interruption is to be
disregarded for those purposes.
          Foreign Limitation Periods

2020 Ed.  Act 2012                    3

 (4) Subsection (3) does not apply to the extent that its application
would conflict with public policy, or would cause undue hardship to a
person who is, or might be made, a party to the action or proceedings.

Foreign judgments on limitation points

 5. Where a court in any country outside Singapore has determined
any matter wholly or partly by reference to the law of that or any other
country (including Singapore) relating to limitation, then, for the
purposes of the law relating to the effect to be given in Singapore to
that determination, that court is, to the extent that it has so determined
the matter, deemed to have determined it on its merits.

Meaning of law relating to limitation

 6.—(1) References in this Act to the law of any country (including
Singapore) relating to limitation are, in relation to any matter, to be
construed as references to so much of the relevant law of that country
as (in any manner) makes provision with respect to a limitation period
applicable to the bringing of proceedings in respect of that matter in
the courts of that country and include —

       (a) references to so much of that law as relates to, and to the
            effect of, the application, extension, reduction or
            interruption of that period; and

       (b) a reference, where under that law there is no limitation
            period which is so applicable, to the rule that such
            proceedings may be brought within an indefinite period.

 (2) In subsection (1), “relevant law”, in relation to any country,
means the procedural and substantive law applicable, apart from any
rules of private international law, by the courts of that country.

Application to Government

 7. This Act binds the Government and applies in relation to any
action or proceedings by or against the Government as it applies in
relation to actions and proceedings to which the Government is not a
party.

                                      31.12.2021
   Foreign Limitation Periods

4                            Act 2012  2020 Ed.

Transitional provision

   8. Nothing in this Act —

   (a) affects any action, proceedings or arbitration commenced
        before 1 June 2012; or

   (b) applies in relation to any matter if the limitation period
        which, apart from this Act, would have been applied in
        respect of that matter in Singapore expired before 1 June
        2012.
                       LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                  FOREIGN LIMITATION PERIODS
                                 ACT 2012

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 13 of 2012 — Foreign Limitation Periods Act 2012

       Bill                          : 11/2012

       First Reading                 : 8 March 2012

       Second and Third Readings : 9 April 2012

       Commencement                  : 1 June 2012

2. 2013 Revised Edition — Foreign Limitation Periods Act (Chapter 111A)

       Operation                     : 30 June 2013

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                     31.12.2021
