THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH
                               ACT 1987

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                                    2020 Ed.

Environmental Public Health
            Act 1987

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
                               ADMINISTRATION

3. Appointment of Director-General and authorised officers
4. Delegation of power by Director-General

                                       PART 3

                             PUBLIC CLEANSING

                             Cleaning of streets, etc.

5. Director-General to cause public streets, etc., to be cleansed
6. Duty of owner and occupier to keep clean private streets, etc.,

       abutting on their premises
7. Dustbins in streets

                                  Removal of refuse

 8. Director-General may apply systems for collection and removal
         of refuse, etc.

 9. Removal of industrial waste, stable refuse, etc.
10. Director-General may require owner and occupier to provide

         dustbins and refuse bins, etc.
11. Maintenance of refuse equipment or facility in buildings
12. Occupier of house to remove refuse
13. Prohibition on use of nightsoil or human excreta as manure

                                         1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                            2

Section   Prohibition on use of nightsoil or human excreta for manuring
   14.    earth in pots, etc.
          Prohibition of cultivation or use of manure or irrigation which is
   15.    nuisance
          All refuse, etc., collected to be property of Agency
   16.

          Offences in respect of uncleanliness in public places

17.       Prohibition against throwing refuse, etc., in any public place
17A.      Presumptions in respect of littering, etc., from residential flats
18.       Building works constituting danger to life, health, etc.
19.       Prohibition against dropping, scattering, etc., certain substances
          in public place
20.       Prohibition against dumping and disposing
21.       Notice to attend Court
21A.      Corrective work order
21B.      Obligations of person subject to corrective work order
21C.      Breach of corrective work order
21D.      Variation and revocation of corrective work order
21E.      Interpretation of sections 21 to 21D

          PART 3A

          WASTE MANAGEMENT

          Disposal facilities

22.       Provision of public disposal facilities
23.       No disposal facility to be constructed, etc., without waste
          disposal licence
23A.      Prescribed conditions relating to progressive wage model for
          waste disposal industry

                   Disposal and treatment of industrial waste

24. Prohibition against disposal of industrial waste in unauthorised
         places

25. Proper storage of industrial waste
26. Notice requiring periodic removal of industrial waste from

         premises
27. [Repealed]
28. Industrial waste brought to disposal facility to be recycled or

         treated

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         Environmental Public Health

3        Act 1987                                                      2020 Ed.

Section  Dangerous substance or toxic industrial waste not to be brought
   29.   to disposal facility without permission
         Excessive production of toxic industrial waste
   30.

                                           General

   30A. Furnishing of information and keeping, etc., of records on waste
            and submission of waste reduction plan

                           Collection, removal, etc., of waste

   31. Licensing of persons carrying on business of collecting,
            removing, etc., of refuse or waste

   31AA. Prescribed conditions relating to progressive wage model for
            waste collection industry

   31A. Special administration order, etc., made on application by
            Agency

   31B. Meaning and effect of special administration orders
   31C. Remuneration and expenses of Agency and others
   31D. Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

                           Provisions applicable in respect of
                waste disposal licences and waste collector licences

   31DA. Amounts specified by Commissioner for Labour for waste
            management industry

   31DB. Monitoring powers

                                          PART 3B

         DISTRICT PNEUMATIC WASTE CONVEYANCE SYSTEM

   31E. Interpretation of this Part
   31F. Application of this Part
   31G. Declaration of DPWCS areas
   31H. Changes affecting DPWCS areas
   31I. Notice of declaration, etc.
   31J. No collection of waste or waste through DPWCS, etc., without

            licence
   31K. Works by DPWCS licensee
   31L. Director-General may require owner or occupier to connect to

            DPWCS
   31M. Connection charge
   31N. Tariff

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                   4

Section   Recovery of connection charge and tariff
          Duty to enquire before excavation
   31O.   Damage to DPWCS
   31P.   Relocation, etc., of pneumatic waste conveyance system
   31Q.   DPWCS connections not fixtures
   31R.   Exemption from distress and attachment, etc.
   31S.   Exclusion from requirement for waste collector licence
   31T.   Application of sections 31A to 31D in relation to DPWCS
   31U.   licensee
   31V.

          PART 4

          FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS, MARKETS AND HAWKERS

31W.      Administration of this Part and Part 9
32.       Food establishments to be licensed
33.       Licensing of hawkers operating from stalls, etc.
34.       Licensing of itinerant hawkers
35.       Director‑General, Food Administration may issue temporary
          permits
36.       Licences for private markets
37.       Persons with infectious diseases not to carry on business
38.       Unauthorised structures
39.       Cleanliness of markets and stalls
40.       Articles of food unfit for human consumption
41.       Cleanliness of vehicles, equipment, etc.
41A.      Penalties for offences under this Part
42.       Notice to attend Court
42A.      Regulations for this Part

                                        PART 5

                               PUBLIC NUISANCES

43. Public nuisances to be abated
44. Nuisances liable to be dealt with summarily
45. Nuisance order
46. Execution of order for demolition

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Environmental Public Health

5  Act 1987                                                        2020 Ed.

   PART 5A

         ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH
   REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROLLED WORKS

Section

   46A. Interpretation of this Part
   46B. Purpose of this Part
   46C. No controlled works without clearance certificate
   46D. Controlled works exempt from section 46C
   46E. Application for clearance certificate
   46F. Preliminary certification of building designs
   46G. New clearance certificate required for amended plans of

            controlled works
   46H. Offence to deviate from plans certified in clearance certificate
   46I. Compliance certificate required upon completion of controlled

            works
   46J. Temporary compliance certificate
   46K. Consequences of providing false or misleading information, etc.
   46L. Appeals under this Part
   46M. Designation of persons to hear appeals
   46N. Use of electronic service for making applications, etc.
   46O. Registration, appointment and duties of registered inspectors

                                           PART 6

           INSANITARY PREMISES, SANITARY CONVENIENCES,
          GENERAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS

                                    Insanitary premises

   47. Premises in unwholesome state
   48. Destruction of rats, wasps, bees, etc.
   49. Closing and demolition, etc., of insanitary dwellings
   50. Overcrowding of houses

                  Sanitary conveniences, drains, sewers and wells

   51. Public toilets
   52. Insufficient and defective sanitary conveniences
   53. Repairs
   54. Sanitary conveniences in work premises or work place
   55. Care of sanitary conveniences
   56. Inadequate bathroom facilities
   57. Construction and maintenance of private drains

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                       6

Section
   58. Drains, etc., to be kept in order at cost of owners
   59. Restriction on construction of wells, etc.

          General health requirements for buildings

60.       Publicly accessible premises to be kept clean, etc.
61.       Director-General may require employers to provide mess rooms,
          etc.
61A.      Environmental Control Coordinators and Environmental
          Control Officers
61B.      Appeal against decisions made under section 61A
62.       Appointment of Environmental Control Officer in construction
          site
62A.      Appointment of Environmental Control Coordinator or
          Environmental Control Officer for specified premises
62B.      Environmental sanitation programme for specified premises
62C.      Power to give directives
62D.      Monitoring powers for purposes of sections 62A, 62B and 62C
62E.      Application to Government

                                        PART 7

                              AQUATIC FACILITIES

63. Licensable aquatic facilities
64. Prohibition of use or operation of aquatic facility
65. Monitoring powers for purposes of this Part
66. Application to Government

          PART 7A

          AEROSOL-GENERATING SYSTEMS

66A.      Registrable aerosol-generating systems
66B.      Prohibition of use or operation of aerosol-generating system
66C.      Monitoring powers for purposes of this Part
66D.      Application to Government

                                        PART 8

      FUNERAL PARLOURS, CEMETERIES AND CREMATORIA

67. Licensing of funeral parlours, cemeteries and crematoria
68. [Repealed]
69. Corpse not to be retained beyond 48 hours unless encoffined

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         Environmental Public Health

7        Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Section  Decomposed corpse
         Agency may provide cemeteries and crematoria
   70.   Places which may be used for burials, etc.
   71.   Unlawful burials
   72.   Power to close cemeteries, etc.
   73.   Unauthorised structure
   74.   Exhumation
   75.   [Repealed]
   76.
   77.

                                           PART 9

                                        [REPEALED]

                                          PART 9A

                         GENERAL CLEANING INDUSTRY

   80B. Purpose of this Part
   80C. Non-application of sections 99 and 103
   80D. Carrying on cleaning business without cleaning business licence

            prohibited
   80E. Offence to engage unlicensed persons
   80F. Application for cleaning business licence
   80G. Grant or refusal of cleaning business licence
   80H. Conditions of cleaning business licence
   80I. Form and validity of cleaning business licence
   80J. Revocation and suspension of cleaning business licence
   80K. Financial penalty
   80L. Changes to information submitted
   80M. Monitoring powers
   80N. Register of cleaning business licensees

                                          PART 10

                                     ENFORCEMENT

   81. Power to enter upon lands for purposes of Act
   82. Penalty for obstruction
   83. Director-General or Director-General, Food Administration may

            act in cases of emergency
   84. Appeal to Minister against notice, order or decision
   84A. Appeal against decisions under Part 4
   85. Default in compliance with notice

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                       8

Section   Authorised officers may demand names and addresses in certain
   86.    cases
          Power of investigating offences
   87.    Powers of arrest
   88.    False or misleading information
   88A.

                                        PART 11

   COMPENSATION, DAMAGES, FEES, COSTS AND EXPENSES

89. Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
         determined by Magistrate’s Court or District Court

90. Damage to property of Agency and Singapore Food Agency to
         be made good in addition to penalty

91. Payment of fees, etc.
92. Recovery of costs and expenses payable by owners
93. Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments
94. Liability of transferor of property in respect of costs and

         expenses incurred by Director-General
95. Limitation of liability to fines and penalties

          PART 12

          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

 96.      Protection from personal liability
 97.      Exemption of agent who has no funds in hand
 98.      Service of summons, notice, etc.
 99.      Licences
 99A.     Codes of practice and standards of performance
100.      Receipts, notices, etc., may be given by authorised officer
101.      Furnishing of information required by Director‑General
102.      Saving of prosecutions under other laws
103.      General penalties
103A.     Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
104.      Composition of offences
105.      Inaccuracies in documents
106.      Jurisdiction of court
107.      Evidence
108.      Forms
108A.     Modification of provisions
109.      Amendment of Schedules
110.      Exemption

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         Environmental Public Health

9        Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Section  Regulations
  111.   Validation of collection of fee or charge for late payment of fee
  111A.  or charge
         First Schedule — Description of purposes for use of food

                                   establishments to which section 32 applies
         Second Schedule — [Repealed]
         Third Schedule — Subject matters of regulations
         Fourth Schedule — Private persons who can be authorised to

                                   exercise powers under this Act or its
                                   regulations and powers in respect of
                                   which persons may act

An Act to consolidate the law relating to environmental public health
  and to provide for matters connected therewith.

                                                                  [1 July 1987]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Environmental Public Health Act 1987.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “aerosol-generating system” means any device or system that is
         capable of producing a suspension of fine liquid droplets in
         air or other type of gas;

      “Agency” means the National Environment Agency established
         under the National Environment Agency Act 2002;

      “aquatic facility” means any pool, device or facility used or
         intended to be used for any recreational or therapeutic
         activity in, on or involving the use of water;

      “aquatic facility licence” means a licence granted under this Act
         for a licensable aquatic facility;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 10

“authorised officer” means any person appointed by the
   Director‑General under sections 3(2) and 4(2) to be an
   authorised officer;

“auxiliary officer” means an individual who is appointed as an
   auxiliary officer under section 16A(1) of the National
   Environment Agency Act 2002;

“baseline wage”, in relation to a waste management worker —

          (a) means the total amount of money (including wage
               adjustments and increments) to which the waste
               management worker is entitled under his or her
               contract of service —

          (i) for working for a period of time, that is, for one
              hour, one day, one week, one month or for any
              other period that may be stated or implied in his
              or her contract of service; or

          (ii) for each completed piece or task of work;

          (b) includes any payment that is prescribed as being part
               of the baseline wage; and

          (c) excludes all of the following:

          (i) additional payments by way of overtime
              payments;

          (ii) additional payments by way of bonus payments
               or annual wage supplements;

          (iii) any sum paid to the waste management worker
                to reimburse him or her for special expenses
                incurred by him or her in the course of his or
                her employment;

              (iv) any payment that may be prescribed as not
                    being part of the baseline wage;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“basic rate of pay” means the total amount of money (including
   wage adjustments and increments) to which an employee is
   entitled under his or her contract of service for working for a
   period of time, that is, for one hour, one day, one week, one

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

11  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    month or for any other period that may be stated or implied in
    his or her contract of service, or for each completed piece or
    task of work, but does not include —

    (a) additional payments by way of overtime payments;

    (b) additional payments by way of bonus payments or
         annual wage supplements;

    (c) any sum paid to the employee to reimburse him or her
        for special expenses incurred by him or her in the
        course of his or her employment;

    (d) productivity incentive payments; and

            (e) any allowance however described;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    “basic wage”, in relation to a cleaner, means wage calculated at
       the cleaner’s basic rate of pay —

    (a) for one hour, one day, one week, one month or for any
         other period that may be stated or implied in his or
         her contract of service; or

            (b) for each completed piece or task of work;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    “building” includes any house, hut, shed or roofed enclosure,
       whether used for the purpose of human habitation or
       otherwise, and any structure, support or foundation
       connected to the foregoing;

    “cleaner” means an individual who is engaged, whether as a
       full‑time employee, part-time employee or casual employee
       and whether or not at piece rates —

    (a) to perform cleaning work for a person other than the
         individual’s employer; or

    (b) to supervise other individuals performing cleaning
         work for a person other than the individual’s
         employer, whether or not the individual is known
         as a supervisor or leader or by any other title,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 12

          and includes any individual who is declared by the Minister,
          by notification in the Gazette, to be a cleaner;

“cleaning business” means a business, whether or not the
   business is carried on for profit —

          (a) in which a person carries out cleaning work for other
               persons through the services of cleaners engaged or
               employed by that person; or

        (b) of supplying cleaners to other persons;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“cleaning business licence” means a licence granted under
   section 80G(1);

“cleaning contract”, in relation to a person, means a contract for
   the provision of cleaning work to other persons by cleaners,
   or for the supply to other persons of cleaners, who are
   engaged or employed by the person;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“cleaning work” means work carried out in Singapore that has,
   as its main or only component, the bringing of premises or
   any public place into, or keeping of premises or any public
   place in, a clean condition, and includes supervising the
   carrying out of that work but excludes any work that the
   Minister declares, by notification in the Gazette, not to be
   cleaning work;

“code of practice” means any code of practice issued or
   approved under section 99A(1), and includes such code of
   practice as amended from time to time;

“Commissioner for Labour” means the Commissioner for
   Labour appointed under section 3(1) of the Employment
   Act 1968;

“common property” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Building (Strata Management) Act 2004;

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

“construction site” means any premises on which works of the
   following description are being or are going to be carried out:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

13  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the erection, construction, alteration, repair or
         maintenance of buildings, structures or roads;

    (b) the breaking up or opening of, or boring under, any
         road or adjacent land in connection with the
         construction, inspection, maintenance or removal of
         works;

    (c) demolition or dredging works;

    (d) any other work of engineering construction;

    “dangerous substance” means —

    (a) aquafortis, vitriol, naphtha benzine, gunpowder,
         lucifer matches, nitroglycerine and petroleum;

    (b) any explosive within the meaning of the Guns,
         Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021;

                                                                [Act 3 of 2021 wef 01/07/2025]

    (c) any radioactive material within the meaning of the
         Radiation Protection Act 2007;

    (d) any substance which owing to its nature, composition
         or quantity constitutes a danger to property or human
         life or health; and

    (e) such other substance which the Agency may, with the
        approval of the Minister, by notification in the
        Gazette, declare to be a dangerous substance for
        the purpose of this Act;

    “Director-General” means the Director-General of Public
       Health appointed under section 3(1);

    “Director-General, Food Administration” means the
       Director‑General, Food Administration appointed under
       section 277(1) of the Food Safety and Security Act 2025;

                                                                            [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

    “disposal facility” includes a recycling facility, a refuse disposal
       ground, any place used for the deposit of refuse or waste, an
       incinerator or any plant, machinery or apparatus used for the
       processing or treatment of refuse or waste;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 14

“dwelling house” includes any building or tenement or any part
   thereof which is used, constructed or adapted for use for
   human habitation;

“environmental sanitation programme” means any
   environmental sanitation programme developed under
   section 62B, and includes such environmental sanitation
   programme as amended from time to time;

“flat” means a horizontal stratum of any building or part thereof,
   whether the stratum is on one or more levels or is partially or
   wholly below the surface of the ground, which is used or
   intended to be used as a complete and separate unit for the
   purpose of habitation or business or for any other purpose,
   and which may be comprised in a “lot”, or in part of any
   “subdivided building” not shown in a registered “strata title
   plan” (the last 3 expressions within quotation marks having
   the meanings given by the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967);

“food” has the meaning given by section 4 of the Food Safety
   and Security Act 2025;

                                                                        [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

“food establishment” means any place or any premises or part
   thereof used for the sale, or for the preparation or
   manufacture for sale, or for the storage or packing for sale,
   of food, whether cooked or not, intended for human
   consumption;

“footway” includes footways and verandah‑ways at the sides of
   streets;

“funeral parlour” means any premises where corpses are
   received for the purpose of preparation for burial or
   cremation or for the carrying out of funeral rites or
   ceremonies prior to burial or cremation, and includes any
   premises used for such purpose by whatever name called;

“garden refuse” means the refuse from garden and agricultural
   operations;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

15  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    “house” includes dwelling house, warehouse, office, shop,
       school and any other building in which persons are
       employed;

    “industrial waste” means any waste whether solid, liquid or
       gaseous produced, or removed or recovered, in the course of
       or is the waste product of any trade, business, manufacture or
       building construction, and includes toxic industrial waste and
       any dangerous substance;

                                   [Act 24 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    “infectious diseases” means —

    (a) any disease set out in the First or Second Schedule to
         the Infectious Diseases Act 1976; and

    (b) any skin disease which is likely to be contagious;

    “itinerant hawker” means any person who, with or without a
       vehicle, goes from place to place or from house to house
       carrying for sale or exposing for sale any food or goods of any
       kind;

    “latrine” includes bucket latrines, bore-hole latrines, water seal
       latrines and pit latrines;

    “licensable aquatic facility” means any aquatic facility of the
       description or type prescribed by the Agency, with the
       approval of the Minister, by order in the Gazette;

    “limited common property” has the meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Building (Strata Management) Act 2004;

                                                                           [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

    “manager”, in relation to any premises, means the occupier of
       the premises, and where there is no occupier, the owner of the
       premises;

    “market” means any place used for the sale of any meat, fish,
       fruit, vegetable, poultry, egg or other article of food, whether
       cooked or uncooked, for human consumption, and includes
       any premises therein used for the sale of goods or in any way
       used in conjunction or connection therewith or appurtenant
       thereto;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 16

“nuisance” means any act, omission or thing occasioning or
   likely to occasion injury, annoyance, offence, harm, danger or
   damage to the sense of sight, smell or hearing, or which is or
   is likely to be injurious or dangerous to health or property;

“occupier” means the person in occupation of any premises or
   having the charge, management or control thereof either on
   that person’s own account or as agent of another person; and,
   in relation to any part of any premises, different parts of
   which are occupied by different persons, means the person in
   occupation or having the charge, management or control of
   that part;

“operator”, in relation to a public service vehicle, means the
   owner, ticket conductor, driver, ticket inspector or person
   who is in charge or in control of the public service vehicle;

“owner”, in relation to —

          (a) any premises — means the person for the time being
               receiving the rent of the premises, whether on the
               person’s own account or as agent or trustee or as
               receiver, or who would receive the rent if the
               premises were let to a tenant, and includes the
               person whose name is entered in the Valuation List
               prepared under section 10 of the Property Tax
               Act 1960;

          (b) any premises where building works are carried out —
               includes the developer;

          (c) the common property of any subdivided building —
               includes the management corporation established
               under the Building (Strata Management) Act 2004
               having control of the building, or the person
               receiving any rent or charge for the maintenance of
               that common property; and

                                                                     [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          (d) the limited common property of any subdivided
               building — includes the subsidiary management

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

17  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

                 corporation established under the Building (Strata
                 Management) Act 2004 having control of the limited
                 common property, or the person receiving any rent or
                 charge for the maintenance of that limited common
                 property;

                                                                           [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

                                                                           [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

    “place of public resort” means a building or a defined or an
       enclosed place used or constructed or adapted to be used
       either ordinarily or occasionally as a church, mosque, temple
       or other place where public worship is or religious
       ceremonies are performed, not being merely a dwelling
       house so used, or as a cinema, theatre, public hall, or as a
       public place of assembly for persons admitted thereto by
       ticket or otherwise, or used or constructed or adapted to be
       used either ordinarily or occasionally for any other public
       purpose;

    “premises” means messuages, buildings, lands, easements and
       hereditaments of any tenure, whether open or enclosed,
       whether built on or not, whether public or private, and
       whether maintained or not under statutory authority, and
       includes any place or structure, or any part thereof used or
       intended to be used for human habitation or for any other
       purpose whatsoever;

    “private market” means a market other than a public market;

    “private street” means any street not being a public street;

    “progressive wage model bonus”, for a cleaner or waste
       management worker —

    (a) means a discretionary amount of money payable to a
         cleaner or waste management worker (as the case
         may be) that is in addition to all of the following paid
         to the cleaner or waste management worker:

    (i) any basic wage (for a cleaner) or baseline wage
        (for a waste management worker);

    (ii) any overtime payment;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 18

          (iii) any sum to reimburse the cleaner or waste
                management worker for special expenses
                incurred during his or her employment;

          (iv) any allowance however described;

          (b) includes any component that is prescribed as being
               part of the progressive wage model bonus for a
               cleaner or waste management worker, as the case
               may be; and

        (c) excludes any component that is prescribed as not
             being part of the progressive wage model bonus for a
             cleaner or waste management worker, as the case
             may be;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“progressive wage plan” means —

          (a) in relation to an applicant for a cleaning business
               licence — a plan that relates to the basic wage and
               progressive wage model bonus that the applicant
               pays or intends to pay to the cleaners who are the
               applicant’s employees; or

        (b) in relation to an applicant for a waste collector
             licence or waste disposal licence — a plan that relates
             to the baseline wage, overtime payment and
             progressive wage model bonus that the applicant
             pays or intends to pay to the waste management
             workers who are the applicant’s employees;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“public market” means a market owned, leased or maintained by
   the Government;

“public park” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Parks
   and Trees Act 2005;

“public place” includes any place whether privately owned or
   not to which the public has access;

“public service vehicle” has the meaning given by the Road
   Traffic Act 1961;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

19  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    “public street” means any street over which the public has a right
       of way and any street vested in the Government;

    “public waste collector licensee” means a person designated by
       the Director‑General under section 31(3);

    “publicly accessible premises” means any premises to which the
       public or a section of the public has access as of right, or by
       virtue of any express or implied permission with or without
       payment of a fee and whether or not access to the premises
       may be restricted at particular times or for particular
       purposes, and includes any part of those premises, and
       “publicly accessible” is to be construed accordingly;

    “recyclable” means any refuse, waste or other material or thing
       that the Agency may prescribe, with the approval of the
       Minister, to be capable of being recycled or reused;

    “recycling facility” means any premises used for the sorting,
       segregation, processing or treatment of refuse, waste or any
       other material or thing for the primary purpose of recycling or
       reuse;

    “registered aerosol-generating system” means any registrable
       aerosol‑generating system that is registered under this Act;

    “registered Environmental Control Coordinator” means any
       individual who is registered under this Act as an
       Environmental Control Coordinator;

    “registered Environmental Control Officer” means any
       individual who is registered under this Act as an
       Environmental Control Officer;

    “registrable aerosol-generating system” means any
       aerosol‑generating system of the description or type
       prescribed by the Agency, with the approval of the
       Minister, by order in the Gazette;

    “residential premises” means any premises which are permitted
       to be used under the Planning Act 1998 or any other written
       law as a dwelling house or which is lawfully so used;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 20

“sale” includes barter, exchange, import and export, and also
   includes offering or attempting to sell, or causing or allowing
   to be sold, or exposing for sale, or receiving or sending or
   delivering for sale, or supplying any food, drink or goods
   where consideration is to be received by the supplier for such
   supply either specifically or as part of a service contracted
   for, or having in possession for sale or having in possession
   any food, drink or goods knowing that the same is likely to be
   sold or offered or exposed for sale, and “sell” is to be
   construed accordingly;

“sanitary conveniences” includes latrines, toilets, urinals and
   water closets;

“showboard” includes showcase and any description of
   container used for the display of any article or thing;

“Singapore Food Agency” means the Singapore Food Agency
   established by the Singapore Food Agency Act 2019;

[Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“specified premises”, in relation to Part 6, has the meaning given
   by section 62A;

“stable refuse” means the dung or urine of birds, poultry or
   animals and the sweepings or refuse or drainage from any
   stables or cattle sheds or places for keeping animals, birds or
   poultry;

“stall” means any table, shed, showboard, vehicle or receptacle
   or any other means used or intended to be used for the
   purpose of selling food or goods of any kind, and includes
   any structure affixed thereto by way of roof, support or
   flooring;

“standard of performance” means any standard of performance
   issued or approved under section 99A(1), and includes such
   standard of performance as amended from time to time;

“statutory body” means a body corporate established by or under
   a public Act for a public purpose;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

21                      Act 1987                             2020 Ed.

    “street” includes any road, flyover, square, footway, backlane or
       passage, whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the public
       has a right of way, and also the way over any public bridge,
       and also includes any road, car park, field, grass verge,
       footway or passage, open court or open alley used or intended
       to be used as a means of access to 2 or more holdings,
       whether the public has a right of way thereover or not; and all
       channels, drains, ditches and reserves at the side of any street
       are deemed to be part of the street;

    “toilet” means a facility for urinating and defecating which is
       water flushed, and which connects, directly or otherwise,
       with a private sewage disposal system or with the public
       sewage disposal system;

    “toxic industrial waste” means any industrial waste which owing
       to its nature, composition or quantity constitutes a danger to
       human health or the environment or which contains or may
       produce pathogens of transmissible diseases;

    “vehicle” means any vehicle whether mechanically propelled or
       otherwise, and includes a barrow and a cart;

    “waste” includes —

    (a) any substance which constitutes a scrap material or
         an effluent or other unwanted surplus substance
         arising from the application of any process; and

    (b) any substance or article which requires to be disposed
         of as being broken, worn out, contaminated or
         otherwise spoiled,

    and anything which is discarded or otherwise dealt with as if
    it were waste is presumed to be waste unless the contrary is
    proved;

    [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 22

“waste collection work” —

          (a) means work carried out in Singapore that has, as its
               main or only component, the collection, removal,
               transport, storage or import of refuse or waste;

          (b) includes supervising the carrying out of that work;
               and

        (c) excludes any work that the Minister declares, by
             notification in the Gazette, not to be waste collection
             work;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“waste collection worker” means an individual who is engaged,
   whether as a full-time employee, part-time employee or
   casual employee and whether or not at piece rates —

          (a) to perform waste collection work; or

          (b) to supervise other individuals performing waste
               collection work, whether or not the individual is
               known as a supervisor or leader or by any other title,

   and includes any individual who is declared by the Minister,
   by notification in the Gazette, to be a waste collection
   worker;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“waste collector licence” means a licence granted under
   section 31(2);

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“waste disposal licence” means a licence granted under
   section 23(2);

                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

“waste disposal work” —

          (a) means work carried out in Singapore that has, as its
               main or only component, the construction,
               establishment, maintenance or operation of a
               disposal facility;

          (b) includes supervising the carrying out of that work;
               and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

23  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

            (c) excludes any work that the Minister declares, by
                 notification in the Gazette, not to be waste disposal
                 work;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    “waste disposal worker” means an individual who is engaged,
       whether as a full-time employee, part-time employee or
       casual employee and whether or not at piece rates —

    (a) to perform waste disposal work; or

    (b) to supervise other individuals performing waste
         disposal work, whether or not the individual is
         known as a supervisor or leader or by any other title,

       and includes any individual who is declared by the Minister,
       by notification in the Gazette, to be a waste disposal worker;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    “waste management worker” means a waste collection worker
       or waste disposal worker;

                                                                            [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    “waterway” means a navigable river, conduit or drain;

    “work place” means any premises or place used for any
       industrial, trade, commercial or manufacturing purposes
       and includes all construction sites, work sites and farms.

    [47/2004; 27/2007; 26/2008; 15/2014; 4/2016; 48/2018;
                                        11/2019; 33/2020; 4/2021]

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Appointment of Director-General and authorised officers

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint any person to be the Director-
General of Public Health who is responsible for the administration of
this Act except where expressly provided otherwise, subject to the
general or special directions of the Minister.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.               Act 1987                                    24

 (1A) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2025 wef 09/03/2025]

 (2) The Director-General may in writing appoint any of the
following persons to be an authorised officer for the purposes of
this Act:

(a) a public officer;

(b) an officer or auxiliary officer of the Agency;

          (c) an officer of any statutory authority;

(d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
     Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                  [4/2016]

Delegation of power by Director-General

 4.—(1) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Minister, delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed upon the Director‑General by this Act
to any authorised officer, subject to any conditions or limitations that
the Director‑General may specify.

 (2) The Director-General may, with the approval of the Minister,
appoint any person set out in the first column of the Fourth Schedule
as an authorised officer for the purposes of exercising all or any of the
powers under this Act that are set out in the second column of that
Schedule, subject to any conditions or limitations that the
Director‑General may specify.

                   PART 3
          PUBLIC CLEANSING
          Cleaning of streets, etc.

                                                                   [15/2014]

Director-General to cause public streets, etc., to be cleansed

 5.—(1) The Director-General must cause public streets, including
the footways thereof, and public parks, beaches, foreshores, canals,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

25  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

waterways and unoccupied State land, to be properly swept and
cleansed and watered so far as is reasonably practicable, and refuse
and filth of every sort found thereon to be collected and removed.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1) derogates from the effect of any other
written law.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Duty of owner and occupier to keep clean private streets, etc.,
abutting on their premises

 6.—(1) The owner and the occupier of any premises abutting upon
any private street to which they have access or the right of access
from their premises must cause any portion of the street that fronts,
adjoins or abuts on their premises and up to the centre thereof
including the footways to be properly swept and cleansed and
watered so far as is reasonably practicable, and refuse and filth of
every sort found thereon to be collected and removed.

 (2) The owner and the occupier of any premises must cause the
immediate vicinity of their premises, including the footways and
backyards abutting thereon, and the airwells, courtyards and
quadrangles thereof to be kept clean and free of refuse, filth or
other matter or any accumulation of water.

 (3) The Director-General may, by written notice, require any person
upon whom any duty is cast under subsection (1) or (2) to sweep and
cleanse and water such street and to collect and remove the refuse,
filth and other matter found thereon at such time or times as are stated
in the notice.

Dustbins in streets

 7.—(1) The Director-General may —

       (a) cause any number of dustbins or other convenient
            receptacles in which refuse may be temporarily
            deposited to be provided and placed in proper and
            convenient locations in public streets and private streets
            and in any other places that the Director‑General may think
            fit; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 26

(b) cause vehicles to go round to collect the refuse.

 (2) A person must not deposit, or cause or permit to be deposited
any dung, nightsoil, human excreta, industrial waste, stable refuse or
garden refuse in any such dustbin or receptacle, except that such
garden refuse comprising grass, small twigs and the like as may be
reasonably accommodated in those dustbins or receptacles may be
placed therein.

                              Removal of refuse

Director-General may apply systems for collection and
removal of refuse, etc.

 8.—(1) The Director-General may at any time apply to all premises
within any area that he or she may determine any system which he or
she thinks fit for the collection and removal of refuse and waste of
every description from those premises.

 (2) In any area to which a system for the collection and removal of
refuse and waste is applied under subsection (1) —

       (a) no person other than a waste collector licensee whose
            specified area in its licence includes premises in the area
            may collect or remove any refuse or waste; and

       (b) every occupier of any premises that the Director‑General
            may designate in the area must use the service of collecting
            and removing refuse or waste provided by a public waste
            collector licensee whose specified area in its licence
            includes those designated premises.

Removal of industrial waste, stable refuse, etc.

 9.—(1) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require any
person carrying on a trade, manufacture or business or occupying any
stable, cattle shed or place for keeping sheep, goats, swine or poultry,
to remove periodically industrial waste or stable refuse to a disposal
facility for disposal.

 (2) Any person upon whom a notice has been served under
subsection (1) must, if so required by the Director‑General, provide
evidence that the person has complied with the notice.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

27  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Director-General may require owner and occupier to provide
dustbins and refuse bins, etc.

 10.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the
owner or occupier of any premises to provide, construct or
reconstruct at the expense of the owner or occupier and within the
period that may be specified in the notice —

    (a) dustbins or other convenient receptacles, which must
         conform to any specifications that the Director‑General
         may require, to be placed in appropriate locations within
         the premises of the owner or occupier as the
         Director‑General thinks fit for the deposit of refuse and
         rubbish from those premises;

    (b) refuse bin centres or refuse bin compartments, which must
         conform to any specifications that the Director‑General
         may require, to be sited in appropriate locations within the
         premises as the Director‑General thinks fit, and in or on
         which must be placed the dustbins and other receptacles
         mentioned in paragraph (a); and

       (c) receptacles which must conform to such specifications as
            the Director‑General may require, to be placed in
            appropriate locations within the premises of the owner or
            occupier as the Director‑General thinks fit for the deposit
            of recyclables.

                                                                                                           [26/2008]

 (2) Where any dustbins or receptacles have been provided under
subsection (1), the Director‑General may, by written notice, require
the owner or occupier of any premises concerned to convey, as often
as may be necessary, refuse from such premises to a disposal facility.

Maintenance of refuse equipment or facility in buildings

 11.—(1) The owner of a building or part of a building served by any
refuse equipment or facility is responsible for the maintenance, repair
or replacement of the refuse equipment or facility.

 (2) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the owner
of a building or part of a building served by any refuse equipment or
facility to —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.               Act 1987                                    28

(a) maintain, repair or replace the refuse equipment or facility;
     or

(b) make any modification to the refuse equipment or facility
     that the Director-General considers necessary for the
     protection of the environment or environmental public
     health.

(3) In this section —

“refuse equipment or facility” means any of the following:

          (a) a refuse or waste chute;

          (b) a refuse or waste chute chamber;

          (c) a refuse or waste chute hopper;

          (d) a refuse or waste lift that is wholly or partly used for
               the conveyance of refuse or waste;

          (e) a standalone pneumatic waste conveyance system;

“standalone pneumatic waste conveyance system” —

          (a) means an automated waste collection system that —

          (i) conveys or transports refuse or waste by air
              suction through a network of pipes to the refuse
              bin centre;

          (ii) consists of the following that are used for, or for
               purposes connected with, conveying or
               transporting refuse or waste by air suction to
               the refuse bin centre:

          (A) all air and ventilation networks;

          (B) all valves, cables, pipes, regulators,
               apparatus, equipment, plants, stations,
               sensors and receptacles for the
               temporary storage of refuse or waste; and

          (iii) is not located in a DPWCS area declared under
                section 31G(1); and

          (b) excludes any disposal facility.

                                                                      [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

29                              Act 1987                     2020 Ed.

Occupier of house to remove refuse

12.—(1) The occupier of any dwelling house or premises who —

    (a) keeps or allows to be kept otherwise than in some proper
         receptacle, refuse or any noxious or offensive matter in any
         part of such house or premises;

    (b) allows such receptacle to be in a filthy or noxious state; or

    (c) neglects or fails to remove the refuse or noxious or
        offensive matter from such receptacle and to cleanse the
        same,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) The receptacle mentioned in subsection (1) must be placed at
such times and places as the Director‑General may direct.

Prohibition on use of nightsoil or human excreta as manure

 13.—(1) No land may be manured with nightsoil or human excreta.

 (2) If any nightsoil or human excreta is found in any place collected
in pits or receptacles of any kind that would in the ordinary course be
used for preparing the nightsoil or human excreta for purposes of
manuring, this is deemed conclusive evidence that the land on which
the pits or receptacles are situated or land in the same occupation
adjoining or contiguous thereto has been manured with nightsoil or
human excreta.

 (3) The owner and the occupier of any land which is manured with
nightsoil or human excreta shall both be guilty of an offence.

 (4) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the owner
or occupier of the land to remove the nightsoil or receptacles or to fill
up the pits, as the case may be.

Prohibition on use of nightsoil or human excreta for manuring
earth in pots, etc.

 14. A person must not use any nightsoil or human excreta for the
purpose of manuring any earth, soil or other substance contained in
any pot, box, container or other receptacle.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 30

Prohibition of cultivation or use of manure or irrigation which
is nuisance

 15. If at any time it appears to the Director‑General that the method
of cultivation of any description of crop or the use or storing or
method of preparing or dealing with any kind of manure (including
prawn dust, prawn shell, chicken droppings and stable refuse) or the
irrigation of land in any specific manner in any premises or area is a
nuisance, the Director‑General may —

(a) prohibit the method of cultivation or the use or storing or
     method of preparing or dealing with the manure or the
     manner of irrigation within the premises or area; or

(b) regulate any of the matters referred to in paragraph (a) by
     imposing any conditions thereon that the Director‑General
     may think necessary for the prevention of the nuisance.

All refuse, etc., collected to be property of Agency

 16.—(1) All refuse, waste and filth of every sort and any matter or
thing collected by the employees, contractors or agents of the Agency
from streets, buildings or any premises or place or brought by any
person to any public disposal facility are the property of the Agency
which may sell or dispose of the refuse, waste and filth as it thinks fit.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), any refuse, waste and filth of every sort,
and any other matter or thing, that is conveyed within the refuse
pipeline networks of any DPWCS established under Part 3B is also
the property of the Agency which the Agency may sell or dispose of
as the Agency thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (3) A person must not, without the written permission of the
Director‑General, remove any refuse, waste or filth or any other
matter or thing brought into any disposal facility for disposal or
treatment.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

31  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    Offences in respect of uncleanliness in public places

Prohibition against throwing refuse, etc., in any public place

17.—(1) A person must not —

    (a) deposit, drop, place or throw any dust, dirt, paper, ash,
         carcase, refuse, box, barrel, bale or any other article or
         thing in any public place, except in a dustbin or other
         receptacle provided for the deposit of refuse and rubbish;

    (b) keep or leave any article or thing in any place where it or
         particles therefrom have passed or are likely to pass into
         any public place, except in a dustbin or other receptacle
         provided for the deposit of refuse and rubbish;

    (c) dry any article of food or any other article or thing in any
        public place;

    (d) place, scatter, spill or throw any blood, brine, noxious
         liquid, swill or any other offensive or filthy matter of any
         kind in such manner as to run or fall into any public place;

    (e) beat, clean, shake, sieve or otherwise agitate any ash, hair,
        feathers, lime, sand, waste paper or other substance in such
        manner that it is carried or likely to be carried by the wind
        to any public place;

    (f) throw or leave behind any bottle, can, food container, food
        wrapper, glass, particles of food or any other article or
        thing in any public place, except in a dustbin or other
        receptacle provided for the deposit of refuse and rubbish;

    (g) spit any substance or expel mucus from the nose upon or
         onto any street or any public place, except in a dustbin or
         other receptacle provided for the deposit of refuse and
         rubbish; or

    (h) discard or abandon in any public place any motor vehicle
         whose registration has been cancelled under section 27 of
         the Road Traffic Act 1961, any furniture or any other bulky
         article.

                                                                                                     [48/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 32

 (2) A person must not drop, deposit or throw any refuse or any other
matter or thing in any channel, drain, lake, reservoir, river, stream or
watercourse or upon the bank of any of the same or in any part of the
sea abutting on the foreshore.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (4) Where the driver or a passenger of a motor vehicle is alleged or
suspected to be guilty of an offence under this section —

(a) the owner of the motor vehicle must give any information
     that he or she may be required to give by a police officer or
     an authorised officer as to the identity and address of the
     person who, at or about the time of the alleged offence, was
     the driver or a passenger of the motor vehicle; and

       (b) any other person who was or should have been in charge or
            in control of the motor vehicle at or about the time of the
            alleged offence must (if so required) give any information
            which it is in that person’s power to give and which may
            lead to the identification of the driver and passengers.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (5) Where an offence under this section is alleged or suspected to be
in connection with throwing, dropping or scattering of refuse or any
other matter or thing from a flat used for residential purpose
(including a flat which is leased for residential purpose) —

(a) any owner of that flat must give any information that the
     owner may be required to give by a police officer or an
     authorised officer as to the identity of every person who, at
     or about the time of the alleged offence, was an occupier of
     that flat; and

(b) any occupier of that flat at or about the time of the alleged
     offence, or any owner of that flat in the case where that flat
     was unoccupied at or about that time, must (if so required)
     give any information which it is in the occupier’s or
     owner’s power to give and which may lead to the
     identification of the alleged offender.

                                                                                                 [15/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

33  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with subsection (4) or (5) within 14 days after the date on which the
information was required from the person shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (7) A person is not excused from giving any information required of
the person by subsection (4) or (5) on the ground that the disclosure of
the information might tend to incriminate the person.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Presumptions in respect of littering, etc., from residential flats

 17A.—(1) Where in any proceedings for a contravention of
section 17(1)(a), (d) or (f), it is proved that any refuse or any other
article, matter or thing that is the subject of the charge, had been
deposited, dropped, placed, thrown, scattered or spilled in or into any
public place from a residential flat, it is presumed, until the contrary is
proved, that the refuse, article, matter or thing was deposited,
dropped, placed, thrown, scattered or spilled in or into the public
place from the residential flat, as the case may be —

       (a) where at the time of the contravention the whole residential
            flat was leased — by the tenant of the residential flat or (if
            there are 2 or more tenants) by every tenant of the
            residential flat; or

       (b) in any other case — by the owner of that residential flat or
            (where that residential flat is owned by more than one
            owner) by every owner of that residential flat.

 (2) Where in any proceedings for a contravention of
section 17(1)(b), it is proved that an article or a thing, or particles
from an article or a thing, that is the subject of the charge, had passed
into any public place from a residential flat, it is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, that the article or thing was kept or left in the
residential flat —

       (a) where at the time of the contravention the whole residential
            flat was leased — by the tenant of the residential flat or (if
            there are 2 or more tenants) by every tenant of the
            residential flat; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 34

(b) in any other case — by the owner of that residential flat or
     (where that residential flat is owned by more than one
     owner) by every owner of that residential flat.

 (3) Where in any proceedings for a contravention of
section 17(1)(e), it is proved that any ash, hair, feathers, lime,
sand, waste paper or other substance that is the subject of the charge,
had been carried by the wind to any public place due to the beating,
cleaning, shaking, sieving or agitating thereof by a person in a
residential flat, it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the act
was done —

(a) where at the time of the contravention the whole residential
     flat was leased — by the tenant of the residential flat or (if
     there are 2 or more tenants) by every tenant of the
     residential flat; or

(b) in any other case — by the owner of that residential flat or
     (where that residential flat is owned by more than one
     owner) by every owner of that residential flat.

 (4) Where in any proceedings for a contravention of
section 17(1)(g), it is proved that any substance or mucus that is
the subject of the charge, had been spat by, or expelled from the nose
of, a person in a residential flat upon or onto any street or public
place, it is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the substance
or mucus was spat or expelled —

(a) where at the time of the contravention the whole residential
     flat was leased — by the tenant of the residential flat or (if
     there are 2 or more tenants) by every tenant of the
     residential flat; or

(b) in any other case — by the owner of that residential flat or
     (where that residential flat is owned by more than one
     owner) by every owner of that residential flat.

 (5) The presumption in subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) against a
person (called in this subsection the presumed offender) is rebutted if
it is proved that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

35  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the contravention mentioned in subsection (1), (2), (3) or
         (4) (as the case may be) was committed by a person other
         than the presumed offender;

    (b) the presumed offender was not present in the residential
         flat at the time the contravention was committed; or

    (c) the presumed offender provided the identity of the person
        whom the presumed offender reasonably believes to have
        committed the contravention, to a police officer or an
        authorised officer within 14 days after being required to do
        so by the police officer or authorised officer.

 (6) The presumptions in subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4),
respectively, only apply in respect of an alleged contravention
committed on or after the date of commencement of section 5 of the
Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 2023.

 (7) For the purposes of this section, the whole residential flat may
be leased to 2 or more tenants by —

    (a) a single agreement with those tenants; or

    (b) separate agreements with one or more of those tenants.

 (8) In this section, “residential flat” means a flat used for residential
purposes, including a flat that is leased for residential purposes.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Building works constituting danger to life, health, etc.

 18. Any person who, during the erection, alteration, construction or
demolition of any building or at any time, fails to take reasonable
precautions to prevent danger to the life, health or wellbeing of
persons using any public place from flying dust or falling fragments
or from any other material, thing or substance shall be guilty of an
offence.

Prohibition against dropping, scattering, etc., certain
substances in public place

 19.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) drops, scatters, spills or throws any noxious liquid, dirt,
            sand, earth, gravel, clay, loam, manure, refuse, sawdust,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 36

          shavings, stone, straw or any other similar matter or thing;
          or

(b) causes or permits any noxious liquid, dirt, sand, earth,
     gravel, clay, loam, manure, refuse, sawdust, shavings,
     stone, straw or any other similar matter or thing to be
     dropped, scattered, spilled or thrown,

in any public place (whether from a moving or stationary vehicle or in
any other manner) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require any person
carrying out any construction or earth works to provide or construct
any device or facility that the Director‑General may think fit for the
removal of dirt, earth, sand or other particles from any vehicle used in
connection with the construction or earth works.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

(a) where the matter or thing is dropped, scattered, spilled or
     thrown from a vehicle, the driver or person having charge
     or control of the vehicle is deemed to have committed the
     offence, unless the offence is committed by a person other
     than the driver or person having charge or control of the
     vehicle and the identity of the person who committed the
     offence can be established; and

(b) where the driver of a motor vehicle is alleged or is
     suspected to be guilty of the offence under this section —

          (i) the owner of the motor vehicle must give any
              information that the owner may be required to give
              by a police officer or an authorised officer as to the
              identity and address of the person who, at or about
              the time of the alleged offence, was the driver of the
              motor vehicle and such other information as the
              police officer or authorised officer may require; and

          (ii) any other person who was or should have been in
               charge or in control of the motor vehicle at or about
               the time of the alleged offence must (if so required)
               give any information which it is in that person’s

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

37  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

                   power to give, and which may lead to the
                   identification of the driver.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with subsection (3)(b) within 14 days after the date on which the
information was required from the person shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (5) A person is not excused from giving any information required of
the person by subsection (3)(b) on the ground that the disclosure of
the information might tend to incriminate the person.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Prohibition against dumping and disposing

 20.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) dumps or disposes, or causes or permits the dumping or
            disposal, of any refuse, waste or any other article from a
            vehicle in a public place; or

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (b) uses, or permits the use of, a vehicle for the purpose of
            dumping or disposing of any refuse, waste or any other
            article in a public place,

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Where the driver or a passenger of a motor vehicle is alleged or
suspected to be guilty of an offence under this section —

       (a) the owner of the motor vehicle must give any information
            that the owner may be required to give by a police officer
            or an authorised officer as to the identity and address of the
            person who, at or about the time of the alleged offence, was
            the driver or a passenger of the motor vehicle; and

       (b) any other person who was or should have been in charge or
            in control of the motor vehicle at or about the time of the
            alleged offence must (if so required) give any information
            which it is in that person’s power to give and which may
            lead to the identification of the driver and passengers.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 38

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with subsection (2) within 14 days after the date on which the
information was required from the person shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (4) A person is not excused from giving any information required of
the person by subsection (2) on the ground that the disclosure of the
information might tend to incriminate the person.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (5) Any vehicle used in dumping or disposing of refuse, waste or
any other article in any public place (other than a disposal facility
established with a waste disposal licence granted by the Director-
General under section 23(2) or a public disposal facility) may be
seized by any police officer, or any authorised officer, and removed to
and detained in any police station or Government depot or other place
as may be approved by the Director‑General at the risk of the owner
for the purposes of proceedings under this Act.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (6) Where, upon an application by the Public Prosecutor, it is
proved to the satisfaction of a court that a vehicle seized under
subsection (5) has been used in the commission of an offence of
dumping or disposing of refuse, waste or any other article in any
public place under subsection (1), the court is to make an order for the
forfeiture of the vehicle, even though no person may have been
convicted of that offence.

 (7) An order for the forfeiture of a vehicle under subsection (6) may
be made by the court before which the prosecution with regard to an
offence under subsection (1) has been or will be held.

 (8) If there is no prosecution with regard to an offence under
subsection (1) —

(a) the vehicle seized under subsection (5) is to be forfeited at
     the expiry of 3 months from the date of the seizure unless a
     claim thereto is made before that date; and

(b) any person asserting that the person is the owner of the
     vehicle may personally, or by the person’s agent authorised

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

39  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    in writing, give written notice to the Director‑General that
    the person claims the vehicle.

 (9) Upon receipt of a notice under subsection (8), the
Director‑General may direct that the vehicle be released or may
refer the matter by information to a Magistrate.

 (10) The Magistrate is to, on receipt of any information under
subsection (9), hold an inquiry and proceed to determine the matter
and is to —

    (a) on proof that the vehicle was used in the commission of an
         offence of dumping or disposing of refuse, waste or any
         other article in any public place under subsection (1) —
         order the vehicle to be forfeited; or

    (b) in the absence of such proof — order the vehicle to be
         released.

 (11) No person is, in any proceedings in any court in respect of the
seizure of any vehicle seized in exercise or the purported exercise of
any power conferred under subsection (5), entitled to the costs of such
proceedings or to any damages or other relief, other than an order for
the return of the vehicle, unless the seizure was made without
reasonable or probable cause.

Notice to attend Court

 21.—(1) Any person who commits an offence under section 17, 18,
19 or 20 may be arrested without warrant by any police officer or
authorised officer, and taken before a Magistrate’s Court or a District
Court (as the case may be), and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case of an offence under section 20(1), to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a second
            or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $100,000
            and to imprisonment for a term of not less than one month
            and not more than 12 months;

       (b) in the case of an offence under section 17(1)(h), to a fine
            not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a second or
            subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 40

          to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to
          both; and

          (c) in the case of any other offence, to a fine not exceeding —

          (i) in the case of a first conviction, $2,000;

          (ii) in the case of a second conviction, $4,000; and

             (iii) in the case of a third or subsequent conviction,
                   $10,000.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Despite subsection (1) or any other written law, any police
officer or authorised officer who, having effected an arrest in
accordance with this section, is satisfied as to the identity, name and
place of residence of the person arrested, may, instead of taking that
person before a Court or to a police station, serve upon that person a
notice in such form as may be prescribed under section 108 requiring
the person to attend at the Court described at the hour and on the date
specified in the notice.

 (3) For the purpose of satisfying himself or herself as to the identity
of the person arrested, the police officer or authorised officer may
require the person to provide any evidence of identity that he or she
may consider necessary.

 (4) A duplicate of the notice mentioned in subsection (2) must be
prepared by the police officer or authorised officer (as the case may
be) and produced by him or her to a Court, if so required by the Court.

 (5) On an accused person appearing before a Court pursuant to such
a notice, the Court is to take cognizance of the offence alleged and is
to proceed as though the accused were produced before it under
subsection (1).

 (6) If a person upon whom a notice under subsection (2) has been
served fails to appear before a Court in accordance therewith, the
Court is to thereupon issue a warrant for the arrest of that person.

 (7) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant of arrest issued
under subsection (6) being produced before a Court, the Court is to
proceed as though the person were produced before it under
subsection (1).

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

41  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (8) Upon the conviction of any person under subsection (1), the
Director‑General may, in the manner provided in section 89, recover
from the person the costs and expenses incurred by the
Director‑General in cleaning the public place except that where an
offence was committed by any person in the course of his or her
employment, the Director‑General may recover the costs and
expenses in the manner provided in section 89 from the employer
of the person.

 (9) This section applies, with the necessary modifications, to any
person who contravenes any regulations made under this Act in
respect of public cleansing.

Corrective work order

 21A.—(1) Where a person who is 16 years of age or above is
convicted of an offence under section 17 or 19, and if the Court by or
before which the person is convicted is satisfied that it is expedient
with a view to his or her reformation and the protection of the
environment and environmental public health that he or she should be
required to perform unpaid work in relation to the cleaning of any
premises, the Court is to, in lieu of or in addition to any other order,
punishment or sentence and unless it has special reasons for not so
doing, make a corrective work order requiring the person to perform
that work under the supervision of a supervision officer and in
accordance with the provisions of this section and section 21B.

 (2) The number of hours which a person may be required to work
under a corrective work order must be specified in the order and must
not in the aggregate exceed 12 hours.

 (3) Despite section 307(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010,
where a Court makes corrective work orders in respect of 2 or more
offences of which the offender has been convicted by or before the
Court, the Court may direct that the hours of work specified in any of
those orders must be concurrent with or additional to the hours
specified in any other of those orders, but so that the total number of
hours which are not concurrent do not exceed the maximum specified
in subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 42

 (4) In making a corrective work order, the Court is to consider the
physical and mental condition of the offender and his or her
suitability for carrying out the requirements of that order.

 (5) Before making a corrective work order, the Court is to explain to
the offender in ordinary language —

(a) the purpose and effect of the order and in particular the
     requirements of the order as specified in section 21B or any
     regulations made under that section;

(b) the consequences which may follow under section 21C if
     the offender fails to comply with any of those
     requirements; and

          (c) that the Court has under section 21D the power to review
              the order on the application of the offender or the
              Director‑General.

 (6) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend subsection (2)
by varying the maximum number of hours for the time being
specified in that subsection.

Obligations of person subject to corrective work order

 21B.—(1) An offender in respect of whom a corrective work order
is in force must —

       (a) report to the supervision officer and subsequently from
            time to time notify him or her of any change of address;
            and

       (b) perform for the number of hours specified in the order such
            work at such places and times and in such manner as the
            offender may be instructed by the supervision officer.

 (2) The work required to be performed under a corrective work
order must be performed during the period of 12 months beginning
with the date of the order; but unless revoked, the order remains in
force until the offender has worked under it for the number of hours
specified in the order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

43  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) A supervision officer must not require an offender to work
under one or more corrective work orders for a continuous period
exceeding 3 hours in a day.

 (4) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, to
make further provisions for the manner in which a corrective work
order may be carried out including the imposition of additional
requirements and the service of any instructions or notice on a person
in respect of whom that order has been made.

Breach of corrective work order

 21C.—(1) If, at any time while a corrective work order is in force in
respect of an offender, it appears to the Court on the application of the
Director‑General that the offender has failed to comply with any of
the requirements of section 21B or any regulations made under that
section (including any failure to perform satisfactorily the work
which the offender has been instructed to do), the Court may —

       (a) issue a summons requiring the offender to appear before
            the Court at the place and time specified in the summons;
            or

       (b) issue a warrant for the arrest of the offender.

 (2) If it is proved to the satisfaction of the Court that the offender
has, without reasonable excuse, failed to comply with any of the
requirements of section 21B or any regulations made under that
section, the Court may, without prejudice to the continuance of the
corrective work order, order the offender to pay a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or may commit the offender to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 months.

 (3) A fine or term of imprisonment imposed under this section is
deemed to be a fine imposed or a sentence of imprisonment passed on
conviction.

Variation and revocation of corrective work order

 21D.—(1) Where a corrective work order is in force in respect of
any offender and, on the application of the offender or the
Director‑General, it appears to the Court that it would be in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 44

interests of justice to do so having regard to circumstances which
have arisen since the order was made, the Court may in relation to the
order —

(a) reduce the number of hours of work which has been
     specified in the order under section 21A(2); or

(b) extend the period of 12 months mentioned in
     section 21B(2).

 (2) Where such an order is in force and on any such application it
appears to the Court that, having regard to such circumstances, it
would be in the interests of justice that the order should be revoked or
that the offender should be dealt with in some other manner for the
offence in respect of which the order was made, the Court may revoke
the order or revoke it and deal with the offender as if the offender had
just been convicted of that offence in any manner in which the
offender could have been dealt with for that offence by the Court
which made the order had the order not been made.

Interpretation of sections 21 to 21D

 21E. In sections 21, 21A, 21B, 21C and 21D —

      “corrective work order” means a corrective work order made by
         a Court under section 21A;

      “Court” means a Magistrate’s Court or a District Court;

      “offender” means a person who is 16 years of age or above who
         is convicted of an offence under section 17 or 19;

      “supervision officer” means an authorised officer or any other
         person as the Agency may, with the approval of the Minister,
         by notification in the Gazette, specify to be a supervision
         officer for the purpose of supervising the performance of
         work by an offender under a corrective work order.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

45  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 3A

    WASTE MANAGEMENT

    Disposal facilities

Provision of public disposal facilities

22.—(1) The Director-General may —

    (a) provide, acquire, construct and maintain any disposal
         facility (called in this Act a public disposal facility) for the
         deposit, disposal and treatment of refuse or waste as he or
         she may consider necessary; and

    (b) make available the facility to any person upon payment of
         any fees or charges as may be prescribed.

(2) The Director-General may —

    (a) refuse to accept any refuse or waste brought to any public
         disposal facility without giving any reason; or

    (b) accept refuse or waste of any description or kind upon any
         terms and conditions that he or she may consider
         necessary.

No disposal facility to be constructed, etc., without waste
disposal licence

 23.—(1) A person must not construct, establish, maintain or
operate any disposal facility without a waste disposal licence
granted by the Director‑General under this section.

 (1A) Without limiting section 99(2), an application for the grant or
renewal of a waste disposal licence must —

       (a) be in the form and manner specified by the Director-
            General;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

       (c) be accompanied by any prescribed information that the
            Director-General requires to decide on the application,
            including but not limited to the following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 46

          (i) a progressive wage plan for the waste disposal
              workers that the applicant employs who are citizens
              or permanent residents of Singapore, that complies
              with the prescribed requirements;

              (ii) evidence that such proportion of the waste disposal
                   workers that the applicant employs, have attended
                   such training and at such frequency, as the Director-
                   General may specify.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (1B) The Director-General may refuse to consider an application
that is incomplete or not made in accordance with subsection (1A).

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (2) The Director‑General may grant a waste disposal licence
authorising any person to construct, establish, maintain or operate
any disposal facility.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (3) A waste disposal licence may be granted under this section
following a public tender or in any other manner that the
Director‑General thinks fit.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (3A) The Director-General may subdivide waste disposal licences
into classes, such as according to the type of waste that may be
received, stored, sorted, treated or processed at the disposal facility
maintained or operated by the waste disposal licensee, and may grant
or renew a waste disposal licence accordingly for one or more such
classes.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (4) Except as otherwise prescribed under section 99(9), the
Director‑General may require any waste disposal licensee to render
a payment on the grant of a waste disposal licence under this section
or such periodic payments during the currency of the waste disposal
licence or both of such amount or amounts as the Director‑General
may determine by or under the waste disposal licence.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (5) Without limiting section 99(1), conditions attached to a waste
disposal licence granted under this section may include —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

47  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) a condition requiring the waste disposal licensee to comply
         with any standard of service and level of performance that
         the Director‑General may specify;

                                                                          [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    (b) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

      (c) a condition regulating the charge to be levied by the waste
           disposal licensee for the provision of the waste disposal
           facility; and

                                                                               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

      (d) a condition requiring the waste disposal licensee not to
           accept any waste which in the opinion of the
           Director‑General is not suitable for disposal.

                                                                               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                                                               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

(5A) The Director-General may —

    (a) under section 99(1)(c), impose different conditions for
         different classes of waste disposal licences or waste
         disposal licensees under different circumstances; and

    (b) despite section 99(13), modify any condition or add any
         new condition during the period to which a waste disposal
         licence relates, if the Director-General is satisfied that it is
         in the public interest to do so,

except that any such condition or modification must not be
inconsistent with any prescribed condition referred to in
section 23A(1) or (2).

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (6) The Director-General may by written notice require any owner
or occupier of any work place to construct, establish, maintain or
operate any disposal facility.

 (7) Any person using, working or operating a disposal facility must
use, work or operate the disposal facility in any manner that the
Director‑General may require.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 48

both and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (9) If in any proceedings for a contravention of subsection (1) it is
shown that any premises are being used as a disposal facility, it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the occupier of the
premises has constructed, established, maintained or operated the
disposal facility.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Prescribed conditions relating to progressive wage model for
waste disposal industry

 23A.—(1) For the purpose of regulating and upgrading the
standards and productivity in the waste disposal industry in
Singapore, regulations may be made under section 111 to impose
conditions on waste disposal licensees for the training of waste
disposal workers and the payment of progressive wages to waste
disposal workers that ensure a more engaged waste disposal
workforce and the retention of a core of waste disposal workers
who are citizens or permanent residents of Singapore (called in this
section resident waste disposal workers).

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the prescribed conditions
referred to in that subsection may include —

       (a) conditions requiring the waste disposal licensee to enter
            into a contract of service in writing with each waste
            disposal worker employed by the waste disposal licensee;

       (b) conditions requiring every contract of service entered into
            between the waste disposal licensee and every resident
            waste disposal worker to provide for the payment of a
            baseline wage, a progressive wage model bonus or an
            overtime payment to the resident waste disposal worker,
            that —

               (i) is not less than the amount; and

              (ii) in the case of a progressive wage model bonus, is to
                   be paid at the frequency,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

49  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) specified by order under section 31DA(1) for the class of
         waste disposal workers that the resident waste disposal
         worker belongs to;

    (c) conditions requiring the waste disposal licensee to ensure
        that every waste disposal worker employed by the waste
        disposal licensee satisfies the training requirements as may
        be specified by the Director-General for the class of waste
        disposal workers that the waste disposal worker belongs to;

    (d) conditions prohibiting the waste disposal licensee from
         deploying any individual who is not employed by the waste
         disposal licensee to carry out any waste disposal work,
         unless the individual is a waste disposal worker employed
         by another waste disposal licensee; and

    (e) conditions requiring the waste disposal licensee to keep
        such records, accounts or documents relating to the
        business or activities that the waste disposal licensee is
        authorised to carry out under the waste disposal licence, as
        may be prescribed, and retain those records, accounts or
        documents for a prescribed period.

 (3) The Director-General must not exercise his or her powers under
section 99(15)(c) or (d) in relation to a waste disposal licensee for
failing to comply with any condition mentioned in subsection (2)(b)
unless the Director-General has first consulted the Commissioner for
Labour.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

               Disposal and treatment of industrial waste

Prohibition against disposal of industrial waste in
unauthorised places

 24.—(1) A person must not dispose of or cause or permit to be
disposed of industrial waste in or at any place except in or at a public
disposal facility or a disposal facility established pursuant to a waste
disposal licence granted by the Director-General under section 23(2).

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 50

$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 and to imprisonment for a term of not less than
one month and not more than 12 months.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a person is said to dispose of
industrial waste if the person burns, sells, gives away, discards,
dumps, incinerates, deposits, processes, recycles, throws or treats
such waste and “disposal” is to be construed accordingly.

Proper storage of industrial waste

 25. The occupier of any work place where industrial waste is being
produced must keep or store the waste before disposal in a proper and
efficient manner so as not to create a nuisance or to cause any risk,
harm or injury to persons or animals or is likely to pollute the
environment.

Notice requiring periodic removal of industrial waste from
premises

 26.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice, require the
occupier of any work place to remove periodically industrial waste
from such premises to a disposal facility.

 (2) The Director-General may, by written notice, require any
occupier upon whom a notice has been served under subsection (1)
to provide evidence that the industrial waste from the premises has
been disposed of at a disposal facility in accordance with the notice.

 27. [Repealed by Act 15 of 2014]

Industrial waste brought to disposal facility to be recycled or
treated

 28. The Director-General may, by written notice, require the
occupier of any work place to recycle or treat any industrial waste
found or produced in those premises at the occupier’s own expense
before it is brought to any disposal facility for disposal.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

51  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Dangerous substance or toxic industrial waste not to be
brought to disposal facility without permission

 29.—(1) A person who owns or is in possession of any dangerous
substance or toxic industrial waste or the residue from the treatment
thereof must not bring or cause to be brought the substance or waste
to any disposal facility for disposal without the written permission of
the Director‑General.

 (2) An application for the written permission mentioned in
subsection (1) must be made to the Director‑General giving details
of the nature and composition of the dangerous substance or toxic
industrial waste and the residue thereof.

 (3) In granting the permission under subsection (1), the
Director‑General may, by written notice, require the owner or the
person in possession of the dangerous substance or toxic industrial
waste to treat such substance or waste at the owner’s or person’s own
expense before it is brought to any disposal facility for disposal.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (5) Any waste disposal licensee who knowingly allows any
dangerous substance or any toxic industrial waste or the residue
from the treatment thereof to be disposed of at the disposal facility in
contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Excessive production of toxic industrial waste

 30. Where in the opinion of the Director‑General the quantity of
toxic industrial waste produced in any work place is or is likely to be
excessive or unduly toxic, he or she may by notice require the
occupier of the work place to —

       (a) alter the method of operation or process used in the work
            place;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 52

(b) alter, install, repair or replace any device, equipment or
     plant used in the work place;

          (c) use other materials or substances other than those used in
              the work place; or

(d) take any other steps that may be necessary to reduce the
     quantity or toxicity of such waste.

                                    General

Furnishing of information and keeping, etc., of records on
waste and submission of waste reduction plan

 30A.—(1) The Director‑General may, by written notice from time
to time, require any owner, occupier or lessee of a work place to do all
or any of the following:

       (a) to furnish the Director‑General with any information on
            the amount, type and nature of any waste produced in that
            work place and any other particulars that may be specified
            in the notice;

       (b) to keep and maintain records containing any information
            on any waste produced in that work place that may be
            specified in the notice and retain those records for the
            period that may be specified in the notice;

       (c) to submit to the Director‑General any waste reduction plan
            for the period and containing information on the targets for
            waste reduction, measures to reduce waste and the progress
            of any waste reduction measure contained in any waste
            reduction plan previously submitted to the
            Director‑General, and any other particulars relating to
            waste reduction, that may be specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any notice under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a second
or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

53  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    Collection, removal, etc., of waste

              [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Licensing of persons carrying on business of collecting,
removing, etc., of refuse or waste

 31.—(1) A person must not carry on the business of collecting,
removing, transporting, storing or importing refuse or waste of any
description without a waste collector licence granted by the
Director‑General under this section.

 (1A) Without limiting section 99(2), an application for the grant or
renewal of a waste collector licence must —

       (a) be in the form and manner specified by the Director-
            General;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

       (c) be accompanied by any prescribed information that the
            Director-General requires to decide on the application,
            including but not limited to the following:

               (i) a progressive wage plan for the waste collection
                   workers that the applicant employs who are citizens
                   or permanent residents of Singapore, that complies
                   with the prescribed requirements;

              (ii) evidence that such proportion of the waste collection
                   workers that the applicant employs, have attended
                   such training and at such frequency, as the Director-
                   General may specify.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (1B) The Director-General may refuse to consider an application
that is incomplete or not made in accordance with subsection (1A).

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (2) The Director‑General may grant a waste collector licence
authorising any person to carry on the business of collecting,
removing, transporting, storing or importing refuse or waste of any
description.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 54

 (3) The Director‑General may designate any person who has been
granted a waste collector licence under this section as a public waste
collector licensee.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (4) A waste collector licence may be granted under this section
following a public tender or in any other manner that the
Director‑General thinks fit.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (4A) The Director-General may subdivide waste collector licences,
whether granted or renewed before, on or after the date of
commencement of section 13(c) of the Environmental Public
Health (Amendment) Act 2023, into classes, such as according to
the type of refuse or waste that may be collected, removed,
transported, stored or imported by the waste collector licensee, and
may grant or renew a waste collector licence accordingly for one or
more such classes.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (5) Except as otherwise prescribed under section 99(9), the
Director‑General may require any waste collector licensee to
render a payment on the grant of a waste collector licence under
this section or such periodic payments during the currency of the
waste collector licence or both of such amount or amounts as the
Director‑General may determine by or under the waste collector
licence.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (6) Without limiting section 99(1), conditions attached to a waste
collector licence granted under this section may include —

(a) a condition requiring the waste collector licensee to
     comply with such standard of service and level of
     performance as the Director‑General may specify;

                                                                      [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

(b) a condition restricting, in a manner specified in the waste
     collector licence, the provision by the waste collector
     licensee of the service of collecting and removing refuse or
     waste to premises which are of a class or description so
     specified and to the area so specified; and

                                                                      [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

55  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

      (d) a condition regulating the charge to be levied by the waste
           collector licensee for the provision of the service of
           collecting and removing refuse or waste.

                                                                               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                                                               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

(6A) The Director-General may —

    (a) under section 99(1)(c), impose different conditions for
         different classes of waste collector licences or waste
         collector licensees under different circumstances; and

    (b) despite section 99(13), modify any condition or add any
         new condition during the period to which a waste collector
         licence relates, if the Director-General is satisfied that it is
         in the public interest to do so,

except that any such condition or modification must not be
inconsistent with any prescribed condition referred to in
section 31AA(1) or (2).

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (7) Any person who collects or transports refuse or waste of any
description must ensure that the refuse or waste or liquid from the
refuse or waste is not dropped, scattered or spilled onto any public
place.

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Prescribed conditions relating to progressive wage model for
waste collection industry

 31AA.—(1) For the purpose of regulating and upgrading the
standards and productivity in the waste collection industry in
Singapore, regulations may be made under section 111 to impose
conditions on waste collector licensees for the training of waste
collection workers and the payment of progressive wages to waste
collection workers that ensure a more engaged waste collection
workforce and the retention of a core of waste collection workers who

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 56

are citizens or permanent residents of Singapore (called in this section
resident waste collection workers).

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the prescribed conditions
referred to in that subsection may include —

(a) conditions requiring the waste collector licensee to enter
     into a contract of service in writing with each waste
     collection worker employed by the waste collector
     licensee;

(b) conditions requiring every contract of service entered into
     between the waste collector licensee and every resident
     waste collection worker to provide for the payment of a
     baseline wage, a progressive wage model bonus or an
     overtime payment to the resident waste collection worker,
     that —

          (i) is not less than the amount; and

          (ii) in the case of a progressive wage model bonus, is to
               be paid at the frequency,

(b) specified by order under section 31DA(1) for the class of
     waste collection workers that the resident waste collection
     worker belongs to;

          (c) conditions requiring the waste collector licensee to ensure
              that every waste collection worker employed by the waste
              collector licensee satisfies the training requirements as
              may be specified by the Director-General for the class of
              waste collection workers that the waste collection worker
              belongs to;

(d) conditions prohibiting the waste collector licensee from
     deploying any individual who is not employed by the waste
     collector licensee to carry out any waste collection work,
     unless the individual is a waste collection worker
     employed by another waste collector licensee; and

          (e) conditions requiring the waste collector licensee to keep
              such records, accounts or documents relating to the
              business or activities that the waste collector licensee is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

57  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    authorised to carry out under the waste collector licence, as
    may be prescribed, and retain those records, accounts or
    documents for a prescribed period.

 (3) The Director-General must not exercise his or her powers under
section 99(15)(c) or (d) in relation to a waste collector licensee for
failing to comply with any condition mentioned in subsection (2)(b)
unless the Director-General has first consulted the Commissioner for
Labour.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Special administration order, etc., made on application by
Agency

 31A.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the Agency,
the Minister is satisfied, in relation to any public waste collector
licensee, that any one or more of the grounds specified in
subsection (2) is satisfied, the Minister may make any one or more
of the following orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to that public
            waste collector licensee;

       (b) an order requiring the public waste collector licensee
            immediately to take action or to do or not to do any act or
            thing in relation to that part of its business or undertaking
            to which its licence relates as the Minister may consider
            necessary;

       (c) an order appointing a person to advise the public waste
            collector licensee on the proper conduct of that part of its
            business or undertaking to which its licence relates.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) The grounds mentioned in subsection (1) are —

       (a) there has been, is or is likely to be, a contravention by the
            public waste collector licensee of the conditions of its
            licence that is serious enough to make it inappropriate for
            the public waste collector licensee to continue to be
            designated a public waste collector licensee;

       (b) the public waste collector licensee is or is likely to be
            unable to pay its debts;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 58

          (c) a public emergency has occurred;

(d) the Minister considers it in the interest of the security and
     reliability of waste collection and removal services to the
     public; or

       (e) the Minister otherwise considers it in the public interest.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (3) The Agency must immediately give notice of any application
under subsection (1) to such persons and in such manner as the
Agency may determine.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (4) Any order made by the Minister under subsection (1) must be
published in a manner that will secure adequate publicity.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (5) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (6) For the purposes of this section, in the case of a public waste
collector licensee which is a company, the public waste collector
licensee is unable to pay its debts if it is deemed to be unable to pay its
debts under section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 40/2018]

Meaning and effect of special administration orders

 31B.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made in accordance with section 31A directing that, during the period
for which the order is in force, the affairs, business and property of the
public waste collector licensee must be managed directly or indirectly
by the Agency —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes of such an order
            set out in subsection (2); and

       (b) in a manner which protects the respective interests of the
            members, creditors and customers of that public waste
            collector licensee.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

59  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

(2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1)(a) are —

    (a) the security and reliability of the supply of waste collection
         and removal services in any specified area to the public;

    (b) the survival of the public waste collector licensee, or the
         whole or part of its business for which it is authorised by its
         licence to carry on, as a going concern;

    (c) the transfer to another person, or (as respects different parts
        of its undertaking) to 2 or more different persons, as a
        going concern, of so much of the public waste collector
        licensee’s undertaking as it is necessary to transfer in order
        to ensure that the functions which have been vested in the
        public waste collector licensee by virtue of its licence may
        be properly carried out; or

       (d) the carrying out of those functions and duties which have
            been vested in the public waste collector licensee pending
            the making of the transfer and the vesting of those
            functions and duties in other person or persons.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (3) The Minister may, by rules in the Gazette, give effect to this
section and section 31A, including making provision for applying,
omitting or modifying provisions of Parts 7 and 9 of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 where a special
administration order is made.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 40/2018]

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Remuneration and expenses of Agency and others

 31C.—(1) Where a special administration order has been made
under section 31A(1)(a), the Agency may, at any time, whether or not
the order is still in force, fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid
by the public waste collector licensee to the Agency.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) The Agency may, at any time, fix the remuneration and
expenses to be paid by a public waste collector licensee to any
person appointed by the Minister under section 31A(1)(c), whether or
not the appointment of the person has terminated.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 60

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

31D.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law —

(a) a public waste collector licensee must not be wound up
     voluntarily without the consent of the Agency;

(b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to a public waste collector licensee;

          (c) no step may be taken by any person to enforce any security
              over a public waste collector licensee’s property, except
              where that person has served on the Agency 14 days’
              notice of the person’s intention to take that step;

      (d) no step may be taken by any person to enforce a judgment
           or an order of court obtained against a public waste
           collector licensee, except where that person has served on
           the Agency 14 days’ notice of the person’s intention to take
           that step; and

                                                                             [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

      (e) no application under section 210 of the Companies
           Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
           and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by any person in
           relation to a public waste collector licensee, unless that
           person has served 14 days’ written notice of that person’s
           intention to make the application on the Agency.

                                                                                             [15/2014; 40/2018]

(2) The Agency must be a party to —

(a) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
     Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
     affairs of a public waste collector licensee; or

(b) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to a public waste collector licensee.

                                                                                                 [40/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

61  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

              Provisions applicable in respect of
    waste disposal licences and waste collector licences

                                                                       [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Amounts specified by Commissioner for Labour for waste
management industry

 31DA.—(1) For the purposes of the prescribed conditions referred
to in sections 23A(2)(b) and 31AA(2)(b), the Commissioner for
Labour must, by order, specify the following that must be paid to
every waste management worker who is a citizen or permanent
resident of Singapore:

       (a) the minimum amount of baseline wage and the date that
            minimum amount takes effect;

       (b) the minimum amount of overtime payment, or the manner
            of calculating that minimum amount, and the date that
            minimum amount or manner of calculation (as the case
            may be) takes effect;

       (c) the minimum amount of progressive wage model bonus
            and the frequency at which the progressive wage model
            bonus is to be paid, and the date that minimum amount and
            frequency take effect.

 (2) An order under subsection (1) may specify —

       (a) different minimum amounts mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a);

       (b) different minimum amounts or different manner of
            calculating the minimum amount mentioned in
            subsection (1)(b); and

       (c) different minimum amounts and different frequency of
            payments mentioned in subsection (1)(c),

for different classes of waste management workers, and may be
varied from time to time.

 (3) In making an order under subsection (1), the Commissioner for
Labour must consider the recommendations by the Tripartite Cluster

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 62

for Waste Management on remuneration for waste management
workers, if any.

 (4) The Commissioner for Labour must publish every order he or
she makes under subsection (1) in any way he or she thinks
appropriate to bring the order to the notice of persons who, in his or
her opinion, ought to have notice of the order, except that failure to
comply with this subsection in respect of any order does not
invalidate the order.

 (5) The amount specified under subsection (1)(a) takes effect for
the purposes of the prescribed conditions referred to in
sections 23A(2)(b) and 31AA(2)(b) even though the baseline wage
that would have been payable to a waste management worker under
any collective agreement, as defined in section 2 of the Industrial
Relations Act 1960, is lower than that amount.

 (6) The amount specified under subsection (1)(b) takes effect for
the purposes of the prescribed conditions referred to in
sections 23A(2)(b) and 31AA(2)(b) even though the overtime
payment as provided for under the Employment Act 1968 that
would have been payable to a waste management worker is lower
than that amount.

 (7) The Director-General may, by written notice to waste disposal
licensees or waste collector licensees (as the case may be), postpone
the effective date specified by an order under subsection (1)(a), (b) or
(c) —

(a) in relation to waste management workers employed
     (whether or not exclusively) to carry out waste collection
     work or waste disposal work before that effective date; and

(b) where the Commissioner for Labour varies the order — in
     relation to waste management workers employed (whether
     or not exclusively) to carry out waste collection work or
     waste disposal work before the variation otherwise takes
     effect.

 (8) In this section, “Tripartite Cluster for Waste Management”
means the body, comprising the representatives from employers, the
trade unions of employees, and the Government, which is responsible

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

63  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

for making recommendations on progressive wages for waste
management workers.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Monitoring powers

 31DB.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Director-General or any
authorised officer appointed under section 3(2) may, for the purpose
of monitoring a licensee’s compliance with any provision of this Part
or any condition of a waste collector licence or waste disposal
licence, by written notice —

       (a) require the licensee to produce any records, accounts and
            documents kept by the licensee in relation to —

               (i) the business that the licensee is authorised to carry on
                   under the waste collector licence or waste disposal
                   licence; or

              (ii) the payment of remuneration to the licensee’s waste
                   management workers,

       (a) within such reasonable time as may be specified in the
            notice;

       (b) inspect, examine and make copies of any such records,
            accounts and documents so produced; and

       (c) make any inquiry that may be necessary to ascertain
            whether any provision of this Part or any condition of the
            waste collector licence or waste disposal licence, is
            complied with.

 (2) Where the Director-General or any authorised officer appointed
under section 3(2) has received information or has reasonable cause
to believe that an offence under this Part or a failure to comply with
any condition of a waste collector licence or waste disposal licence
has occurred, or is occurring or about to occur, the Director-General
or authorised officer may exercise all or any of the powers mentioned
in subsection (1) without having to issue any written notice.

 (3) Where the records, accounts and documents mentioned in
subsection (1) are kept in electronic form —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 64

(a) the power of the Director-General or authorised officer
     under subsection (1)(a) to require any such records,
     accounts or documents to be produced for inspection
     includes power to require a copy of the records, accounts or
     documents to be made available for inspection in legible
     form and subsection (1)(b) applies accordingly in relation
     to any copy so made available; and

(b) the power of the Director-General or authorised officer
     under subsection (1)(b) to inspect any such records,
     accounts or documents includes power to require the
     licensee or the person who produced the records, accounts
     or documents on behalf of the licensee or (where the
     records, accounts or documents are kept at any premises)
     any person on those premises to give the Director-General
     or authorised officer any assistance that the Director-
     General or authorised officer may reasonably require to
     enable him or her to inspect and make copies of the
     records, accounts or documents in legible form or to make
     records of information contained in them.

 (4) Any person who fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with any requirement imposed under this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

 (5) In this section, “licensee” means a waste collector licensee or
waste disposal licensee.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                PART 3B
DISTRICT PNEUMATIC WASTE CONVEYANCE SYSTEM

                                                                           [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]
                                                                             [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

65                           Act 1987                        2020 Ed.

Interpretation of this Part

31E. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

    “air and ventilation networks” means —

    (a) all air and ventilation transmission pipelines or
         interconnected transmission pipelines; and

    (b) other devices and equipment (including pressure
         regulating and control valves),

    used or intended for, or for purposes connected with,
    conveying or transporting refuse or waste by air suction;

    “connection point” means a point situated in, or in immediate
       proximity to, any premises in a DPWCS area where the
       refuse pipeline networks are connected to the related internal
       assets;

    “District Pneumatic Waste Conveyance System” or “DPWCS”
       means a pneumatic waste conveyance system that is
       established, or required to be established, for a DPWCS area;

    “DPWCS area” means an area declared under section 31G(1);

    “DPWCS licence” means a licence granted under section 31J
       to —

    (a) establish, operate or maintain a pneumatic waste
         conveyance system for a DPWCS area; or

    (b) do any combination of 2 or more things in
         paragraph (a);

    “DPWCS licensee” means a person to whom a DPWCS licence
       is granted under this Act;

    “pneumatic waste conveyance system” means an automated
       waste collection system that conveys or transports refuse or
       waste by air suction from individual premises through a
       network of pipes to a central location for collection and that
       consists of —

    (a) air and ventilation networks;

    (b) refuse pipeline networks; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 66

          (c) related internal assets,

          but does not include any disposal facility;

“refuse pipeline networks” —

          (a) means all valves, cables, pipes, regulators, apparatus,
               equipment or plant or station used for, or for purposes
               connected with, conveying or transporting refuse or
               waste by air suction; and

          (b) includes any connection point, but does not include
               any related internal assets;

“related internal assets” means all receptacles (including screw
   tanks that are used for the temporary storage of refuse or
   waste), refuse chutes, chute chambers, pipes, valves, control
   cables and sensors within any premises up to but not
   including any connection point, that are used for, or for
   purposes connected with, conveying or transporting refuse or
   waste by air suction from within any premises to the refuse
   pipeline networks.

                                                                  [48/2018]
                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Application of this Part

 31F. This Part does not apply to any premises controlled or
managed by a Town Council constituted under the Town Councils
Act 1988.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Declaration of DPWCS areas

 31G.—(1) The Minister may, from time to time, by notice in the
Gazette, declare an area to be a DPWCS area where a pneumatic
waste conveyance system is established, and operated or maintained,
for that area under this Part.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1) must —

       (a) define the limits of the DPWCS area; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

67  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

       (b) state that a plan of the DPWCS area may be inspected at a
            place and within such time as is specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) The owner or occupier of every premises within a DPWCS area
declared under subsection (1) must use the pneumatic waste
conveyance system established, and operated or maintained by the
DPWCS licensee for the area.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (4), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the accused had a reasonable excuse for failing to comply.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Changes affecting DPWCS areas

 31H.—(1) The Minister may, by notice in the Gazette —

       (a) revoke any declaration made under section 31G; or

       (b) modify an area declared as a DPWCS area under
            section 31G.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) A notice under subsection (1)(b) modifying an area declared as
a DPWCS area must —

       (a) define the part of the DPWCS area that is modified; or

       (b) state that a plan of the modification of the DPWCS area
            may be inspected at a place and within such time as is
            specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.                     Act 1987                              68

Notice of declaration, etc.

 31I.—(1) Before making any declaration under section 31G(1) or
revoking or modifying a declaration under section 31H, the Minister
must give advance notice in the Gazette of the Minister’s intention to
make, revoke or modify (as the case may be) the declaration.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) The notice mentioned in subsection (1) must —

(a) contain either of the following unless the declaration
     relates to the revocation of a declaration under
     section 31H:

          (i) a definition of the area that is proposed to be declared
              as a DPWCS area or the part of the DPWCS area that
              is proposed to be modified; or

          (ii) particulars as to where and when a plan of the
               proposed DPWCS area or of the part of the DPWCS
               area proposed to be modified may be inspected; and

       (b) specify the time (being at least 28 days after the publication
            of the notice in the Gazette) within which written
            representations with respect to the intended declaration,
            or intended revocation or modification of the declaration,
            may be made.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) The decision of the Minister after considering any written
representation made within the time specified in the notice under
subsection (2)(b) is final.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) If no written representation is received by the Minister within
the time specified under subsection (2)(b), or if a written
representation made under that subsection is subsequently
withdrawn, the Minister may immediately carry out the proposed
matters specified in the notice under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

69  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

No collection of waste or waste through DPWCS, etc., without
licence

31J.—(1) A person must not —

    (a) establish, operate or maintain; or

    (b) convey or transport refuse or waste through,

any DPWCS without a DPWCS licence.                           [48/2018]
 (2) Without limiting section 99 —

    (a) a DPWCS licence may be granted following a public
         tender or in any other manner that the Director‑General
         thinks fit;

    (b) the Director‑General may require any DPWCS licensee to
         render a payment on the grant of a DPWCS licence or such
         periodic payments during the currency of the licence or
         both of such amount or amounts as the Director‑General
         may determine by or under the licence; and

    (c) the conditions attached to a DPWCS licence may
        include —

    (i) a condition requiring the DPWCS licensee to
        connect, at its own cost, any premises or part
        thereof within the DPWCS area covered by its
        DPWCS licence to the DPWCS in accordance with
        any specifications that the Director‑General may
        specify;

    (ii) a condition requiring the DPWCS licensee to comply
         with any code of practice, standard of service and
         level of performance that the Director‑General may
         specify;

    (iii) a condition requiring the DPWCS licensee to enter
          into interconnection or sharing agreements in respect
          of any infrastructure and facilities relating to the
          DPWCS upon any terms and conditions that the
          Director‑General may consider necessary; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 70

             (iv) the right of the Director‑General in the public interest
                   to make modifications to any condition of the
                   DPWCS licence or add new conditions during the
                   period to which the licence relates.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Works by DPWCS licensee

 31K.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, a DPWCS licensee
may, in order to carry out the activities which it is authorised or
required by its DPWCS licence to do —

       (a) install in, on, over, under, along or across any premises or
            street and inspect, maintain, adjust, repair, alter, restore,
            replace or remove any valve, cable, pipe, regulator,
            apparatus, equipment, plant or station which is or is to
            be part of the DPWCS; and

       (b) carry out any activities that are necessary or incidental to
            the activities falling within paragraph (a), including —

               (i) excavating any premises, street, sewer or drain;

              (ii) tunnelling or boring under any premises, street,
                   sewer or drain;

             (iii) removing or using all earth and materials in or under
                   any premises, street, sewer or drain;

             (iv) erecting or placing any valve, cable, pipe, regulator,
                   apparatus, equipment, plant or station in or under any
                   land or street; and

              (v) taking any other action that may be necessary to
                   render any valve, cable, pipe, regulator, apparatus,
                   equipment, plant or station safe and efficient.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

71  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) A DPWCS licensee must pay to any person who has suffered
damage or loss of value to the person’s property caused by any
activity of the DPWCS licensee mentioned in subsection (1) such
sum as may be agreed between the DPWCS licensee and the person
by way of compensation.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) Any person who —

    (a) hinders, obstructs or delays a DPWCS licensee in the
         performance of its duties or anything which the DPWCS
         licensee is authorised, empowered or required to do under
         subsection (1); or

    (b) interferes with any works authorised, empowered or
         required to be done by a DPWCS licensee under
         subsection (1),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) Except in the case of an emergency arising from any fault in the
DPWCS, a DPWCS licensee must not carry out or cause to be carried
out works mentioned in subsection (1) without first giving 14 days’
notice to the owner or occupier of the premises stating as fully and
accurately as possible the nature and extent of the acts intended to be
done.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (5) In this section, a reference to a DPWCS licensee includes a
reference to any employee, agent or contractor authorised by the
DPWCS licensee for the purposes of this section.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (6) To avoid doubt, nothing in subsection (1) derogates from any
requirement imposed on the DPWCS licensee by or under any written
law to obtain approval from the Government or a statutory authority
to carry out any activity mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 72

Director-General may require owner or occupier to connect to
DPWCS

 31L.—(1) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require the
owner or occupier of any premises within a DPWCS area to —

(a) reconstruct, rebuild, retrofit or modify, at the owner’s or
     occupier’s expense, any refuse lift, refuse chute, refuse
     chamber, refuse bin centre or refuse bin compartment (or
     any part or component of the foregoing) within the
     premises to conform to such specifications of the related
     internal assets as may be prescribed, or if not prescribed, as
     the Director‑General may require for the good working of
     the DPWCS;

(b) maintain or operate, at the owner’s or occupier’s expense,
     any related internal assets according to such specifications
     as the Director‑General may require;

          (c) make or maintain, at the owner’s or occupier’s expense, the
              connection of the related internal assets to the refuse
              pipeline networks according to such specifications, and for
              such period as the Director‑General may require; and

       (d) employ or engage only persons that the Director‑General
            may approve to construct, reconstruct, connect, maintain
            the connection of, maintain or operate any related internal
            assets.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) An owner or occupier who fails to comply with a notice of the
Director‑General under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the accused had a reasonable excuse for failing to comply.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                   Environmental Public Health

73                 Act 1987                                  2020 Ed.

Connection charge

 31M.—(1) The owner of any premises within a DPWCS area
which is connected to the DPWCS for that DPWCS area must pay to
the Agency a charge known as a connection charge of such amount
and payable at such time or times as the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, by order in the Gazette, prescribe.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) For the purpose of determining the amount of the connection
charge under subsection (1), all the costs incurred in the construction
of the DPWCS for the DPWCS area, including (but not limited to) the
cost of constructing the air and ventilation networks and refuse
pipeline networks, but excluding the cost of constructing the related
internal assets, may be taken into consideration.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Agency may, with the
Minister’s approval, prescribe different amounts of connection
charge and different times of payment for persons differently
situated, including different amounts of connection charge for
premises with different gross floor areas and generating different
amounts of refuse.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) Where the premises mentioned in subsection (1) are comprised
in a strata title plan under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967, a
reference in that subsection to the owner or occupier of the premises
is deemed to refer to the management corporation constituted under
that strata title plan under that Act.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Tariff

 31N.—(1) The owner or occupier of any premises within a DPWCS
area which is connected to the DPWCS for that DPWCS area must
pay to the DPWCS licensee a tariff for, or in respect of, operating or
maintaining the DPWCS.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) The tariff mentioned in subsection (1) —

       (a) is of such amount; and

       (b) is payable at such time or times,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 74

as the Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, by order in the
Gazette, prescribe.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) For the purpose of determining the amount of the tariff under
subsection (2)(a), the following factors may be taken into
consideration:

(a) the amount of refuse conveyed from the premises;

(b) the cost of storage of the refuse conveyed from the
     premises;

          (c) the cost of operating, maintaining and replacing the air and
              ventilation networks and refuse pipeline networks of the
              DPWCS;

       (d) the cost of treatment of exhaust air generated by the
            pneumatic waste conveyance system to minimise any
            environmental nuisance.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Agency may, with the
approval of the Minister, prescribe different amounts of tariffs and
different times of payment for persons differently situated, including
different amounts of tariff for premises with different gross floor
areas and generating different amounts of refuse.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (5) Where the premises mentioned in subsection (1) are comprised
in a strata title plan under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967, a
reference to the owner or occupier of the premises is deemed to refer
to the management corporation constituted under that strata title plan
under that Act.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Recovery of connection charge and tariff

 31O.—(1) The connection charge that is payable under
section 31M may be recovered by the Agency as a civil debt due
to the Agency.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) The tariff that is payable under section 31N may be recovered as
a civil debt due to the DPWCS licensee mentioned in that section.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

75  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Duty to enquire before excavation

 31P. Any person who digs, bores, trenches, grades, excavates,
tunnels or breaks any ground with any mechanical equipment, tool or
explosive within a DPWCS area or allows the person’s employee or
agent to do so, without first ascertaining the location of any refuse
pipeline networks that may be interfered with, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Damage to DPWCS

 31Q.—(1) Any person who, whether wilfully or otherwise —

       (a) removes, destroys or damages or causes or permits to be
            removed, destroyed or damaged, any part of a DPWCS; or

       (b) hinders or prevents a DPWCS from being used or operated
            in the manner in which it is intended to be used or operated,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the person took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
diligence to avoid the commission of the offence.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) If it appears to the Agency that there has been a contravention of
subsection (1), the Agency may, by written notice, require any person
who has done any of the acts mentioned in that subsection or any
other person who may be liable under that subsection by virtue of
section 103A (called in this section the person in default) to carry out
any works that may be necessary to restore the DPWCS to its original
condition, use or operation, or to replace it, within such time as may
be specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 76

 (4) If the Agency is of the opinion that immediate action is
necessary or expedient, or that the DPWCS cannot be restored by the
person in default, the Agency may, instead of issuing the notice under
subsection (3) —

(a) carry out any works that are necessary to restore the
     DPWCS to its original condition, use or operation, or to
     replace it; and

       (b) recover in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due to
            the Agency all expenses reasonably incurred in doing so
            from the person in default.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (5) If the person to whom a notice is given under subsection (3) fails
to comply with the notice within the time specified, the Agency may
carry out the works specified in the notice in any manner that the
Agency thinks fit and recover in a court of competent jurisdiction as a
debt due to it all expenses reasonably incurred in doing so from the
person in default.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (6) Without affecting the right of the Agency to exercise its powers
under subsection (5), any person who fails to comply with a notice
given to the person under subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (7) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (6), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that
the accused had a reasonable excuse for failing to comply.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Relocation, etc., of pneumatic waste conveyance system

 31R.—(1) Where a pneumatic waste conveyance system has been
laid in, on, over, under, along or across any land within a DPWCS
area and the owner or occupier of the land desires to use the land in a
manner which renders it necessary or convenient that the pneumatic
waste conveyance system should be moved, the owner or occupier
may request the Agency to move, or cause to be moved, the
pneumatic waste conveyance system accordingly.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

77  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The Agency may, at the request of the owner or occupier under
subsection (1), relocate the pneumatic waste conveyance system, or
cause the pneumatic waste conveyance system to be relocated, if —

    (a) the Agency is satisfied that the relocation is reasonable;
         and

       (b) the owner or occupier complies with any terms and
            conditions that the Agency may impose, including terms
            and conditions relating to the payment by the owner or
            occupier of all reasonable costs and expenses (including
            compensation for any loss that may be incurred by the
            DPWCS licensee) necessary for the relocation.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) Where a pneumatic waste conveyance system has been laid in,
on, over, under, upon, along or across any land within a DPWCS area
and the pneumatic waste conveyance system is no longer in use by the
occupier or any other person for the purposes of conveying or
transporting refuse or waste by air suction, the DPWCS licensee may
of its own volition or must at the reasonable request of the owner,
remove the pneumatic waste conveyance system from the land at its
own expense.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) In this section —

    “owner” includes any person having a leasehold interest with an
       unexpired term of at least 7 years;

    “pneumatic waste conveyance system” means any part or
       section of the pneumatic waste conveyance system, other
       than the related internal assets.

                                                                                                       [48/2018]

DPWCS connections not fixtures

 31S. No works, apparatus, fixture, fitting or other equipment used
for, for the purposes of, or in connection with, connecting, affixing or
fastening the refuse pipeline networks or any part of the refuse
pipeline networks to the related internal assets is deemed to be a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 78

fixture or vest in the owner of the premises on or within which the
related internal assets are constructed or placed.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Exemption from distress and attachment, etc.

 31T. The air and ventilation networks and refuse pipeline networks
of a DPWCS licensee are not subject to distress and are not liable to
be taken in execution under any process of a court in any bankruptcy
or insolvency proceedings against any person, or under or pursuant to
any enforcement order, without the prior written approval of the
Minister.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Exclusion from requirement for waste collector licence

 31U. A DPWCS licensee is not, by reason only of the fact that the
DPWCS licensee is in the business of conveying or transporting
refuse or waste through the DPWCS under a DPWCS licence,
required to hold a waste collector licence under section 31.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Application of sections 31A to 31D in relation to DPWCS
licensee

 31V. Sections 31A to 31D apply in relation to a DPWCS licensee in
the same manner as those sections apply in relation to a public waste
collector licensee.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

                                    PART 4

    FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS, MARKETS AND HAWKERS

Administration of this Part and Part 9

 31W.—(1) The Director‑General, Food Administration is
responsible for the administration of this Part and Part 9, subject to
the general or special directions of the Minister charged with the
responsibility for food safety.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

79                         Act 1987                          2020 Ed.

 (2) The Director‑General, Food Administration may, subject to the
directions of the Minister charged with the responsibility for food
safety, appoint any of the following individuals to be an authorised
officer for the purpose of assisting the Director‑General, Food
Administration in administering and carrying out the provisions of
this Part and Part 9:

    (a) an employee of the Singapore Food Agency;

    (b) an employee of another statutory authority;

    (c) a public officer;

       (d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General, Food Administration may delegate the
exercise of all or any of the powers conferred or duties imposed upon
the Director‑General, Food Administration by any provision of this
Act (except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection) to
an authorised officer appointed under subsection (2); and any
reference in any provision of this Act to the Director‑General,
Food Administration includes a reference to such an authorised
officer.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Minister charged with the responsibility
for food safety may specify.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General, Food Administration may, for any reason
that appears to him or her to be sufficient, at any time revoke a
person’s appointment under subsection (2) as an authorised officer.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (6) An individual mentioned in subsection (2)(d) who is appointed
as an authorised officer does not, by virtue only of the appointment,
become an employee or agent of the Singapore Food Agency.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 80

Food establishments to be licensed

 32.—(1) A person must not operate or use or knowingly permit a
food establishment to be used for any of the purposes specified in the
First Schedule without first obtaining a licence from the
Director‑General, Food Administration.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) Upon any conviction for contravening subsection (1), the
Director‑General, Food Administration may, by written order
addressed to the convicted person, require that the place or
premises or any part of the place or premises where the offence
took place must no longer be operated or used as a food establishment
as from such date as the Director‑General, Food Administration must
specify in the order.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) Where the convicted person fails to comply with any order
under subsection (2), the Director‑General, Food Administration —

(a) may take any steps or measures that are necessary to ensure
     that the order is complied with; and

(b) is entitled to recover from that person the costs and
     expenses incurred by the Director‑General, Food
     Administration in doing so.

                                                                                                 [11/2019]

Licensing of hawkers operating from stalls, etc.

 33. A person must not —

       (a) hawk, sell or expose for sale any food or goods of any kind;
            or

       (b) set up or use any stall, table, showboard, vehicle or
            receptacle for the purpose of hawking, selling or exposing
            for sale any food or goods of any kind,

in any street or part of the street or in any premises or public place
without first obtaining a licence from the Director‑General, Food
Administration.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

81  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Licensing of itinerant hawkers

 34.—(1) A person must not act as an itinerant hawker without first
obtaining a licence from the Director‑General, Food Administration.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General, Food Administration may, subject to any
conditions that he or she may think fit, permit licensed itinerant
hawkers to occupy stationary positions for any period that he or she
may think fit on any site or sites that may from time to time be
approved by him or her for this purpose.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General, Food Administration may prohibit
itinerant hawkers from hawking in any place or places that he or
she may think fit.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Director‑General, Food Administration may issue temporary
permits

 35. A person must not promote, organise or stage any temporary
fair or other such function or activity without first obtaining a permit
from the Director‑General, Food Administration.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Licences for private markets

 36. A person must not use any building, situation or place as a
private market without first obtaining a licence from the
Director‑General, Food Administration.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Persons with infectious diseases not to carry on business

 37.—(1) The Director‑General, Food Administration may require
any person to whom a licence has been issued under this Part (called
in this Part a licensee) or any assistant or employee of the licensee or
any applicant for a licence under this Part to submit to medical
examination.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) If the licensee, assistant, employee or applicant is suffering from
or is suspected to be suffering from an infectious disease or is
suspected to be a carrier of the infectious disease, the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 82

Director‑General, Food Administration may require him or her to
undergo treatment.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) The Director‑General, Food Administration may require that
treatment to be obtained at any hospital as he or she may think fit.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (4) The Director‑General, Food Administration may require any
licensee or any assistant or employee of the licensee to submit to
immunisation against any infectious disease.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (5) Every licensee must ensure that the licensee’s assistant or any
person employed by the licensee is immunised against any infectious
disease as required by the Director‑General, Food Administration.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (6) The Director‑General, Food Administration may, at any time,
revoke or suspend any licence issued under this Part if —

(a) the licensee is suffering from an infectious disease;

(b) the licensee knowingly employs any person who is
     suffering from or is suspected to be suffering from an
     infectious disease;

          (c) the licensee or the licensee’s assistant or employee refuses
              to comply with any requisition made by the
              Director‑General, Food Administration under
              subsection (1), (2) or (3); and

(d) the licensee does not comply with subsection (5).

                                                                                                 [11/2019]

Unauthorised structures

 38.—(1) A licensee, stall-holder or other person must not erect any
extension or effect any extension to any stall, shed or other place in or
out of any food establishment without the permission of the
Director‑General, Food Administration or cause any obstruction in
any of the passageways or other places therein.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General, Food Administration may, by written
notice, require any person who contravenes subsection (1) to remove

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

83  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

any erection, structure or obstruction within a period specified in the
notice.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Cleanliness of markets and stalls

 39.—(1) Every licensee of a private market must keep the market in
a clean and sanitary condition.

 (2) Every licensee of a stall must keep the stall and the immediate
vicinity of the stall in a clean and sanitary condition.

 (3) Where, in the opinion of the Director‑General, Food
Administration, a licensee of a private market or a stall‑holder has
failed to comply with subsection (1) or (2) (as the case may be), the
Director‑General, Food Administration may, by written notice,
require the licensee, within the period that may be specified in the
notice, to take any steps that the Director‑General, Food
Administration may think fit for the purpose of complying with
those subsections.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Articles of food unfit for human consumption

 40.—(1) A person must not, without lawful excuse, have in the
person’s possession for sale by retail any article of food intended for
human consumption which is unsound or unfit for human
consumption.

 (2) The Director‑General, Food Administration or an authorised
officer may at all reasonable times —

       (a) enter into and inspect any place which is used, or which he
            or she has reasonable grounds for believing to be used —

               (i) for the sale by retail of articles of food intended for
                   human consumption; or

              (ii) for the preparation or storage of such articles
                   intended for sale; and

       (b) search any cart or vehicle or any basket, sack, bag, parcel
            or receptacle which he or she has reasonable grounds for
            believing to contain for sale by retail articles of food

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 84

            intended for human consumption and may examine any
            such articles therein.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) If it appears to the Director‑General, Food Administration or an
authorised officer that any such article of food is unsound or unfit for
human consumption, the article may be seized by the
Director‑General, Food Administration or authorised officer.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (4) Any article of food seized may be kept or stored in the place or
premises where it was seized or may at the direction of the
Director‑General, Food Administration or an authorised officer be
removed to any other place or, where the article is likely to decay or is
deleterious to health, be destroyed.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (5) A certificate signed by the Director‑General, Food
Administration is to be accepted by a Magistrate’s Court as
sufficient evidence that any article of food seized was unsound or
unfit for human consumption at the time of seizure.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (6) A person claiming any article of food seized under this section
may, within 48 hours after the seizure, complain of the seizure to a
Magistrate’s Court.

 (7) The complaint may be heard and determined by the Magistrate’s
Court, which may either confirm or disallow the seizure wholly or in
part, or may order any article of food seized to be returned to the
owner and may order payment to be made to the owner of the article
of any amount that the Court considers will compensate the owner for
any loss or depreciation resulting from the seizure.

 (8) If within 48 hours after the seizure no complaint has been made,
or if the seizure is confirmed, every article of food seized becomes the
property of the Singapore Food Agency and must be destroyed or
otherwise disposed of so as to prevent the article from being used for
human consumption.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (9) A person must not obstruct the Director‑General, Food
Administration or an authorised officer in the exercise of his or her

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

85  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

powers under this section or tamper with any article of food kept or
stored in any place or premises under subsection (4).

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Cleanliness of vehicles, equipment, etc.

 41.—(1) Any person who uses a vehicle for the transportation of
food must ensure that the surface of the vehicle with which the food is
likely to come into contact is kept in a state of cleanliness, good order
and condition so as to prevent any risk of contamination of the food.

 (2) The Director-General, Food Administration may, by written
notice, require any person who uses a vehicle to transport food to use
or install in or on the vehicle any device or equipment as he or she
thinks fit to ensure that the food carried in or on the vehicle will not be
contaminated.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Penalties for offences under this Part

 41A.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 32(1), 33, 34(1),
35, 36, 37(5), 38(1), 39(1) or (2), 40(1) or (9) or 41(1) shall be guilty
of an offence and —

       (a) in the case of any contravention of section 33, 34(1), 37(5),
            39(2) or 41(1) —

               (i) the person shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
                   exceeding $5,000; and

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender, the person shall
                   be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
                   $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                   3 months or to both; and

       (b) in the case of any contravention of section 32(1), 35, 36,
            38(1), 39(1) or 40(1) or (9) —

               (i) the person shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
                   exceeding $10,000; and

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender, the person shall
                   be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 86

                   $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                   3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person is a repeat offender
in relation to an offence under subsection (1) if the person who is
convicted, or found guilty, of an offence under that subsection (called
the current offence) for contravening section 32(1), 33, 34(1), 35, 36,
37(5), 38(1), 39(1) or (2), 40(1) or (9) or 41(1) —

(a) has been convicted or found guilty on at least one other
     earlier occasion of an offence under that subsection for
     contravening the same provision as the current offence; or

(b) has (whether before, on or after 1 April 2014) been
     convicted or found guilty on at least one other earlier
     occasion of an offence under section 42(1) in force
     immediately before that date for contravening the same
     provision as the current offence.

                                                                                                 [15/2014]

Notice to attend Court

 42.—(1) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this
Part may be arrested without warrant by any police officer or
authorised officer and taken before a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Despite subsection (1) or any other written law for the time
being in force, any police officer or authorised officer, who, having
effected an arrest in accordance with subsection (1), is satisfied as to
the identity, name and place of residence of the person arrested, may,
instead of taking that person before a Magistrate’s Court or to a police
station serve upon that person a notice in any form that may be
prescribed under section 108 requiring that person to attend at the
Court described at the hour and on the date specified in the notice.

 (3) For the purpose of satisfying himself or herself as to the identity
of the person arrested, the police officer or authorised officer may
require the person arrested to furnish such evidence of identity as the
officer may consider necessary.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

87  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) A duplicate of the notice served under subsection (2) must be
prepared by the police officer or authorised officer (as the case may
be) and produced by him or her to a Magistrate’s Court if so required
by the Court.

 (5) On an accused person appearing before a Magistrate’s Court
pursuant to the notice, the Court is to take cognizance of the offence
alleged and is to proceed as though he or she were produced before it
under subsection (1).

 (6) If a person upon whom a notice under subsection (2) has been
served fails to appear before a Magistrate’s Court in accordance with
the notice, the Court is to thereupon issue a warrant for the arrest of
that person.

 (7) Upon a person arrested pursuant to a warrant issued under
subsection (6) being produced before it, a Magistrate’s Court is to
proceed as though the person were produced before it under
subsection (1).

                                                                                [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (8) Any stall, together with any appliances and utensils relating
thereto and the food or goods intended or exposed for sale, whether or
not they appear to be abandoned, belonging or appearing to belong to
or in the possession of a person appearing to be committing or to have
committed an offence under this Part may be seized by any police
officer or authorised officer and removed to and detained in any
police station or any other place that may be approved by the
Director‑General, Food Administration at the risk of the owner, to
abide the directions of a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (9) If any money is found, together with any food, articles,
appliances or utensils seized under subsection (8), the money is
deemed to be lawfully seized.

 (10) Any money seized under subsection (9) if it is claimed within
48 hours after the seizure by the owner of the money must be returned
to the owner whether or not the owner is licensed under this Part.

 (11) Any cooked or uncooked food or perishable articles or goods,
seized and removed under subsection (8) and likely to decay may be
disposed of immediately.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 88

 (12) If any abandoned articles or goods so seized and detained,
other than cooked or uncooked food or perishable articles or goods
already disposed of, are claimed within 48 hours after the seizure by
the owner thereof (being a person licensed or otherwise lawfully
entitled to set up or sell the articles or goods at the place at which the
articles or goods were seized), the abandoned articles or goods must
be returned to the owner.

 (13) Every seizure must, except when the articles, goods or money
have been returned to the owner, be reported to a Magistrate’s Court.

 (14) The Magistrate’s Court is, on convicting any person of an
offence under section 41A(1) or on receiving a report in respect of
any abandoned articles which were apparently being used in
connection with the sale of food or goods, to order the property
seized under subsection (8) to be forfeited and to be disposed of in
any manner that the Court may think fit.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (15) The Magistrate’s Court may, on receiving a report in respect of
any abandoned articles which were not apparently being used in
connection with the sale of food or goods, order the property seized
under subsection (8) to be forfeited and to be disposed of in any
manner that the Court thinks fit.

 (16) If the Magistrate’s Court directs the sale of any article, the
proceeds or such part of the proceeds as the Court may think fit must
be paid to the Singapore Food Agency and the balance (if any) paid to
the owner.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (17) The Magistrate’s Court may, on convicting any person for an
offence under section 41A(1), order any money seized under
subsection (9) to be returned to the person if the person satisfies
the Court that the person is the owner of the money.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (18) The Magistrate’s Court —

(a) on convicting any person for an offence under
     section 41A(1) and where the person does not satisfy the
     Court that the person is the owner of any money seized
     under subsection (9); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

89  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) on receiving a report in respect of any abandoned money,

is to order that money to be forfeited and paid to the Singapore Food
Agency.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 11/2019]

 (19) This section applies, with the necessary modifications, to any
person who contravenes any regulations made under this Act for the
control of matters under this Part.

Regulations for this Part

 42A.—(1) The Minister charged with the responsibility for food
safety may make regulations for or in respect of every purpose which
the Minister considers necessary or expedient for carrying out the
provisions of this Part, and in particular —

       (a) the control, regulation and supervision of markets (and
            anything in a market and places in the vicinity of a market)
            and of persons engaged or employed in a market;

       (b) the seizure and disposal of unwholesome meat, fish, fruit,
            vegetables or other food or drink exposed or intended for
            sale;

       (c) the use and management of stalls, tables or showboards set
            up for the sale of any goods in public streets or places of
            public resort;

       (d) specifying of streets, places and areas (or parts thereof) at
            which hawkers are prohibited;

       (e) prescribing the articles, or types or classes of articles, that
            may be sold from or exposed for sale in or on any stall,
            vehicle or other receptacle in any public street or place or
            by any itinerant hawker, and premises where any such
            article is prepared or stored and the manner in which any
            such article is prepared or transported;

        (f) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for a licence or permit or an application to
            renew a licence or permit may be made, and the
            information and evidence required to be provided in
            connection with the application; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 90

      (g) the fees to be paid to the Singapore Food Agency in respect
           of applications for and the grant and renewal or late
           renewal of any licence or permit, and otherwise in
           connection with the administration of this Part, and the
           waiver, reduction or refund of fees charged.

                                                                                                         [11/2019]

(2) In addition, the regulations made under subsection (1) may —

(a) prescribe the offences under this Part that may be
     compounded, designate the officers of the Singapore
     Food Agency who may compound those offences and
     the maximum sum for which any such offence may be
     compoundable, which must not exceed one half of the
     amount of the maximum fine that is prescribed for the
     offence or $5,000, whichever is lower;

(b) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     with a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; and

       (c) provide for any transitional, saving and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions
            that are necessary or expedient.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) All regulations made under this section must be published in the
Gazette and be presented to Parliament as soon as possible after
publication.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

                                    PART 5
                           PUBLIC NUISANCES
Public nuisances to be abated
 43. The Director‑General may take any steps that he or she may
consider necessary to remove or abate all nuisances of a public nature

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

91  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

and may, if he or she considers that the circumstances so warrant,
proceed at law against any person committing any such nuisance.

Nuisances liable to be dealt with summarily

 44. For the purposes of this Act, the following are nuisances liable
to be dealt with summarily under this Act:

       (a) any premises or part of the premises of such a construction
            or in such a state as to be a nuisance or injurious or
            dangerous to health;

       (b) any pool, gutter, watercourse, earth closet, cesspool, sewer,
            drain or sanitary conveniences in a foul state or so situate
            as to be a nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health;

       (c) the keeping of any animal, bird, poultry or carcase in such
            place or manner or in such numbers as to be a nuisance or
            injurious or dangerous to health;

       (d) any dust, effluvium, accumulation or deposit which is a
            nuisance or injurious or dangerous to health;

       (e) the issue of any fumes, vapours, gases, heat, radiation or
            smells in any premises which is a nuisance or injurious or
            dangerous to health;

        (f) any well, pool or other source, the water from which is
            used or likely to be used for human consumption and
            which is so polluted or is likely to become so polluted as to
            be injurious or dangerous to health;

       (g) any tank or receptacle or article capable of containing
            water or any well, pool, watercourse, ditch or low marshy
            ground which is injurious to health or offensive to the
            neighbourhood;

       (h) any factory or work place which is not kept in a clean state
            and free from effluvia arising from any sewer, drain, privy,
            latrine, earth closet, urinal or other nuisance;

        (i) any place where there exists, or is likely to exist, any
            condition giving rise, or capable of giving rise to the
            breeding of flies or mosquitoes;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 92

          (j) any furnace, chimney, fireplace or other place from which
              is emitted smoke or other unconsumed combustible matter
              in such quantity or in such a manner as to be a nuisance or
              injurious or dangerous to health;

          (k) any brickfield, sandpit or any other kind of excavation
              which is injurious to health or offensive to the
              neighbourhood or is used for any purpose likely to be
              injurious to health;

          (l) any machinery, plant or any method or process used in any
              premises which causes a nuisance or is dangerous to public
              health or safety;

(m) any place where there occurs, or from which there
     emanates noise or vibration as to amount to a nuisance; or

(n) any other matter declared by this Act to be a nuisance liable
     to be dealt with summarily.

Nuisance order

 45.—(1) On receipt of any information with respect to the existence
of a nuisance liable to be dealt with summarily under this Act, the
Director‑General may, if satisfied of the existence of a nuisance,
serve a nuisance order on the person by whose act, default or
sufferance the nuisance arises or continues, or if the person cannot be
found, on the owner or occupier of the premises on which the
nuisance arises.

 (2) A nuisance order may —

       (a) require works to be executed or things to be done that are
            necessary to abate the nuisance;

       (b) require works to be executed or things to be done that are
            necessary to prevent the recurrence of the nuisance even
            though the nuisance has for the time being been abated;

       (c) require the stoppage of any work either indefinitely or until
            such time as the steps which may be specified in the order
            have been taken to abate or prevent the recurrence of the
            nuisance; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

93  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    (d) prohibit a dwelling house from being used for human
         habitation.

 (3) A nuisance order must, if the Director‑General thinks it
desirable, specify the works to be executed by any person under
subsection (2).

 (4) Where the person causing the nuisance cannot be found and it is
clear that the nuisance does not arise or continue by the act, default or
sufferance of the occupier or the owner of the premises, the
Director‑General may cause the nuisance to be abated and may do
what is necessary to prevent the recurrence of the nuisance.

 (5) Where a nuisance order prohibits a dwelling house from being
used for human habitation, the Director‑General may, when satisfied
that it has been rendered fit for human habitation, cancel the nuisance
order.

 (6) Where a nuisance order prohibiting a dwelling house from
being used for human habitation has not been cancelled, the
Director‑General may make a complaint to a Magistrate’s Court if
he or she is of the opinion that —

    (a) the dwelling house has not been rendered fit for human
         habitation;

    (b) the necessary steps are not being taken with all due
         diligence to render it so fit; or

    (c) the continuance of the dwelling house is dangerous or
        injurious to the health of the public or of the occupants of
        the neighbouring dwelling houses.

 (7) A Magistrate’s Court after hearing the complaint may make on
the owner a summary order for the demolition of the dwelling house
within the time and date specified in the order.

 (8) The order may also contain a direction that the materials of the
dwelling house or any part of the materials must be destroyed.

 (9) Where a nuisance order prohibits a dwelling house from being
used for human habitation, the Director‑General must serve notice of
the order on every occupier of the dwelling house.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 94

 (10) Within the period specified in the order being at least 7 days
(except in case of immediate danger) after the service of the order
under subsection (9), the order must be obeyed by the occupier and
the occupier and his or her family must cease to inhabit the dwelling
house, and in default the occupier shall be guilty of an offence and the
Magistrate’s Court is, upon application by the Director‑General, to
make a summary order for the ejectment of the occupier and the order
may be carried into effect by any police officer.

 (11) Any person who fails to comply with a nuisance order served
on the person under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable —

(a) in the case of a first conviction, to a fine not exceeding
     $10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
     further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a
     day during which the offence continues after conviction;
     and

(b) in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine
     not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
     exceeding 3 months or to both and, in the case of a
     continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $1,000
     for every day or part of a day during which the offence
     continues after conviction.

Execution of order for demolition

 46.—(1) Where an order for the demolition of a dwelling house has
been made under section 45(7), the owner of the dwelling house must,
within the time mentioned in the order, take down and remove the
dwelling house and, if the order for demolition so directs and to the
extent mentioned in the order, destroy the materials thereof.

 (2) If the owner fails to comply with subsection (1), the
Director‑General or any authorised officer must proceed to take
down and remove the building and (if necessary) destroy the
materials, and may recover the costs of such work from the owner.

 (3) Section 93 applies to any sum recoverable from any owner
under this section.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

95  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 5A

          ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH
    REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTROLLED WORKS

              [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Interpretation of this Part

 46A. In this Part —

      “amended plans” means plans showing any deviation from, or
         any amendment or addition to, any plans of controlled works
         certified by the Director-General in a clearance certificate;

      “building” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Building
         Control Act 1989;

      “building works” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Building Control Act 1989;

      “clearance certificate” means a certificate described in
         section 46C(1) and issued under section 46E(2)(a), and
         includes such certificate issued under section 46E(2)(a) as
         applied by section 46G;

      “compliance certificate” means a certificate described in
         section 46I(1) and issued under section 46I(3)(a);

      “controlled facility” means any of the following:

              (a) an aerosol generating system;

              (b) an aquatic facility;

              (c) a disposal facility;

              (d) a pneumatic waste conveyance system as defined in
                   section 31E;

              (e) a toilet within any publicly accessible premises;

              (f) any other equipment or facility prescribed in
                   regulations made under section 111;

      “controlled works” means any building works, or works
         involving the provision, extension or alteration of any
         controlled facility;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 96

“design certificate” means a certificate described in
   section 46F(1) and issued under section 46F(3)(a);

“developer”, in relation to any controlled works, means the
   person for whom or on whose behalf the controlled works are
   carried out;

“environmental public health requirements” means the
   requirements set out in regulations made under section 111
   and any prescribed codes of practice relating to the
   prevention, reduction or control of the spread of any
   infectious disease in or from, or the reduction or removal
   of any risk of conditions injurious or dangerous to public
   health being created in, any completed buildings or
   controlled facilities;

“foundation” means that part of a building which is below or in
   direct contact with the ground, and through which the weight
   of the building and the loads acting on the building are
   transmitted to the ground, and includes any footing, raft or
   pile of the building;

“plans”, in relation to any controlled works —

          (a) includes drawings, details, diagrams, digital
               representations generated from building
               information modelling, structural details and
               calculations showing or relating to the works; and

          (b) if prepared in electronic form, includes the medium
               in which the plans of the works have been stored;

“registered inspector” means a person whose name is registered
   under section 46O(1);

“site formation works” means any kind of site formation and
   includes earthworks for site stabilisation, the construction of
   foundations, basements, sub‑structures, piling, underpinning,
   ground anchors, trenches or any other kind of ground works;

“temporary compliance certificate” means a certificate issued
   under section 46J(1).

                    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

97                    Act 1987                               2020 Ed.

Purpose of this Part

 46B.—(1) The purpose of this Part is to establish a regulatory
framework to prevent, reduce or control the spread of any infectious
disease in or from, and to reduce or remove the risk of any conditions
injurious or dangerous to public health being created in, any
completed buildings and controlled facilities.

 (2) This Part does not limit the operation of any other written law
relating to the regulation of controlled works.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

No controlled works without clearance certificate

 46C.—(1) Subject to sections 46D and 46F, a person must not
commence or carry out, or permit or authorise the commencement or
carrying out of any controlled works without a certificate (called in
this Part a clearance certificate) issued by the Director-General under
section 46E(2)(a) in respect of those controlled works.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 and,
            in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $2,000 for every day or part
            of a day during which the offence continues after that
            second or subsequent conviction.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Controlled works exempt from section 46C

 46D.—(1) Regulations made under section 111 may exempt from
section 46C any class of controlled works for any buildings or
controlled facilities that have been assessed by the Agency to pose a
low risk of giving rise to the spread of any infectious disease or of
harbouring conditions injurious or dangerous to public health, subject
to such conditions as may be prescribed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 98

 (2) The conditions mentioned in subsection (1) may include (but
are not limited to) the following:

(a) that the plans of the controlled works must be lodged with
     the Director-General, in the form and manner and within
     the time specified by the Director-General, together with
     any other information or documents specified by the
     Director-General;

(b) that the person who prepared the plans of the controlled
     works must provide to the Director-General, in the form
     and manner and within the time specified by the Director-
     General, a declaration of the matters specified by the
     Director-General.

                                                                    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Application for clearance certificate

 46E.—(1) An application for a clearance certificate for any
controlled works must be made to the Director-General by the
developer of the controlled works, in the form and manner specified
by the Director-General, and must be accompanied by the documents
and information specified by the Director-General.

 (2) The Director-General may —

       (a) if the plans of the controlled works comply with the
            environmental public health requirements (except any
            requirements that have been waived in the particular case
            by the Director-General), approve the application and issue
            a clearance certificate, with or without conditions;

       (b) give a written direction to the developer to comply with
            any requirement that the Director-General may specify for
            the purpose of ensuring that all or any of the plans
            submitted to him or her comply with specified
            environmental public health requirements; or

       (c) disapprove the application.

 (3) If a direction given by the Director-General under
subsection (2)(b) is not complied with within the period specified
in that direction, or such further period as may be allowed by the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Environmental Public Health

99  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Director-General, the application is, at the end of that period, deemed
to be disapproved by the Director-General.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Preliminary certification of building designs

 46F.—(1) A developer of any controlled works to which
section 46C applies who intends to carry out any part of those
works (being site formation works or other prescribed works) before
the issue of a clearance certificate, may apply to the Director-General
for a preliminary certificate (called in this Part a design certificate).

 (2) An application for a design certificate must be made to the
Director-General, in the form and manner specified by the Director-
General, and must be accompanied by —

       (a) information on the key design parameters of the controlled
            works specified by the Director-General; and

       (b) any other documents and information specified by the
            Director-General.

 (3) The Director-General may —

       (a) if the key design parameters of the controlled works
            comply with the environmental public health requirements
            (except any requirements that have been waived in the
            particular case by the Director-General), approve the
            application and issue a design certificate, with or without
            conditions;

       (b) give a written direction to the developer to comply with
            any requirement that the Director-General may specify for
            the purpose of ensuring that the key design parameters of
            the controlled works comply with specified environmental
            public health requirements; or

       (c) disapprove the application.

 (4) If a direction given by the Director-General under
subsection (3)(b) is not complied with within the period specified
in that direction, or such further period as may be allowed by the
Director-General, the application is, at the end of that period, deemed
to be disapproved by the Director-General.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.                    Act 1987                               100

(5) A design certificate —

(a) is valid for such period as the Director-General may
     specify, which may be extended for such further period or
     periods as the Director-General may specify; and

(b) authorises the developer to carry out, during the period of
     its validity, such site formation works or other prescribed
     works as the Director-General may specify, without the
     need for a clearance certificate.

 (6) Regulations made under section 111 may prescribe what are key
design parameters of any controlled works for the purposes of this
section.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

New clearance certificate required for amended plans of
controlled works

 46G.—(1) A developer of controlled works who intends to depart
or deviate from any plans of those works for which a clearance
certificate has been issued, must apply to the Director-General for
another clearance certificate (called in this section a new certificate)
for the amended plans showing the departure or deviation.

 (2) Section 46E(2) and (3) applies (with the necessary
modifications) to applications made under subsection (1) as it
applies to applications made under section 46E(1).

 (3) Where the Director-General has issued a new certificate
pursuant to an application under subsection (1), the previous
clearance certificate for the same controlled works is treated as
cancelled.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Offence to deviate from plans certified in clearance certificate

 46H.—(1) A person who, in carrying out any controlled works
deviates, or permits or authorises the controlled works to deviate, in
any material way from any plans of the controlled works for which a
clearance certificate has been issued shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

101  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
          exceeding $50,000.

(2) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) —

     (a) it is not necessary for the prosecution to prove that the
          accused knew that the controlled works deviate in any
          material way from the plans as so certified; but

     (b) it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a
          balance of probabilities, that the accused did not know and
          could not reasonably have known of the plans.

                                                                         [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Compliance certificate required upon completion of controlled
works

 46I.—(1) Upon the completion of any controlled works the plans
(including any amended plans) of which have been certified in a
clearance certificate, the developer of the controlled works must
apply to the Director-General for a further certificate (called in this
Part a compliance certificate) that the controlled works have been
completed in accordance with —

       (a) the plans as so certified; and

       (b) the conditions (if any) in the clearance certificate.

 (2) The Director-General may, on an application under
subsection (1), require the developer or a registered inspector
appointed by the developer to inspect the completed controlled
works and submit a report stating whether the controlled works have
been completed in accordance with subsection (1)(a) and (b).

 (3) The Director-General may, after considering the application
under subsection (1) and any report submitted under subsection (2) —

       (a) issue (subject to any conditions that he or she thinks fit) a
            compliance certificate if the controlled works have been
            completed in accordance with subsection (1)(a) and (b)
            (except for any non-compliance that has been waived in a
            particular case by the Director-General);

       (b) give a written direction to the developer to comply within a
            specified period with any requirement that the Director-

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 102

          General may specify for the purpose of ensuring that the
          controlled works have been completed in accordance with
          subsection (1)(a) and (b); or

          (c) disapprove the application.

 (4) Without limiting subsection (3)(b), a direction may require
specified work or alteration to be carried out at the expense of the
developer, within a specified period and to the satisfaction of the
Director-General.

 (5) If a direction is not complied with within the period specified in
that direction, or such further period as may be extended by the
Director-General, the application under subsection (1) is, at the end of
that period, deemed to be disapproved by the Director-General.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Temporary compliance certificate

 46J.—(1) Where an application has been made under section 46I
for a compliance certificate for any controlled works, the Director-
General may, before issuing the compliance certificate, issue a
temporary compliance certificate in the first instance.

 (2) A temporary compliance certificate is valid for such period as
the Director-General may specify, and may be issued subject to
conditions including (but not limited to) a condition that the
developer of the controlled works comply with any written
direction mentioned in section 46I(3)(b).

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), section 46I(3)(b) and (4)
applies (with the necessary modifications) to that subsection.

 (4) A temporary compliance certificate is only prima facie evidence
that the building that is the subject of the controlled works or in
relation to which those works are done, has met the minimum
environmental public health requirements that the Director-General
considers necessary for occupation, and is not evidence that the
controlled works have been completed in accordance with
section 46I(1)(a) and (b).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

103  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (5) The Director-General may amend, suspend or, in the event of a
failure to comply with any condition imposed under subsection (2),
revoke any temporary compliance certificate.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Consequences of providing false or misleading information,
etc.

 46K.—(1) Any person who, for the purpose of obtaining any
certificate under this Part, provides to the Director-General any plan,
declaration, document or other information that is false or misleading
in a material particular, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable —

       (a) on the first conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000; and

       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $50,000.

 (2) The Director-General may at any time revoke any certificate
issued under this Part (including, to avoid doubt, a temporary
compliance certificate), if the Director-General is satisfied that any
plan, declaration, document or other information provided to him or
her for the purpose of obtaining the certificate is false or misleading
in a material particular.

 (3) Where a clearance certificate has been revoked under
subsection (2), any compliance certificate or temporary compliance
certificate issued in respect of the same controlled works is also
treated as revoked.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Appeals under this Part

 46L.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Director-General (called in this section a relevant decision) —

       (a) to disapprove an application under section 46E(2)(c),
            46F(3)(c) or 46I(3)(c) (except, to avoid doubt, any such
            application that is deemed to be disapproved);

       (b) to impose conditions under section 46E(2)(a), 46F(3)(a),
            46I(3)(a) or 46J(2) on the grant of a certificate; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 104

          (c) to revoke any certificate under section 46J(5) or 46K(2),

may, within 14 days after the person receives the relevant decision,
apply to the Director-General to reconsider the relevant decision.

 (2) The application must be made by giving a written notice to the
Director-General for reconsideration that states precisely the grounds
of the person’s objections to the relevant decision.

 (3) After considering the written notice for reconsideration, the
Director-General may do any of the following (called in this section
the reconsidered decision):

(a) confirm or rescind the relevant decision;

(b) substitute or vary the relevant decision, and make any
     decision that the Director-General is competent to make
     under the provisions mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b)
     and (c).

 (4) The Director-General’s reconsidered decision must be given in
writing to the person that requested the reconsideration.

 (5) If the person remains aggrieved by the reconsidered decision,
the person may, within 14 days after the person receives the
reconsidered decision, appeal in writing to the Minister.

(6) After considering the appeal, the Minister may —

(a) confirm or rescind the reconsidered decision; or

(b) substitute or vary the reconsidered decision, and make any
     decision that the Director-General is competent to make
     under the provisions mentioned in subsection (1)(a), (b)
     and (c).

(7) The Minister’s decision on the appeal is final.

 (8) The Minister’s decision on the appeal must be given to the
appellant in writing.

 (9) A relevant decision takes effect despite any request for a
reconsideration of the relevant decision, unless the Director-General
otherwise directs; and a reconsidered decision takes effect despite any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

105  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

appeal against the reconsidered decision under subsection (5), unless
the Minister otherwise directs.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Designation of persons to hear appeals

 46M.—(1) The Minister may designate —

       (a) any Minister of State, Senior Minister of State,
            Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
            Secretary, for his or her Ministry; or

       (b) any public officer in his or her Ministry,

to hear and determine (in the Minister’s place) any appeal under
section 46L.

 (2) Any reference in section 46L to the Minister includes a
reference to the Minister of State, Senior Minister of State,
Parliamentary Secretary, Senior Parliamentary Secretary or public
officer so designated under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Use of electronic service for making applications, etc.

 46N.—(1) The Director-General may permit —

       (a) an application to him or her under this Part; or

       (b) a lodgment of any document or information with him or
            her for the purposes of this Part,

to be made through the electronic service described in section 42AA
of the Building Control Act 1989.

 (2) Where a person uses the electronic service mentioned in
subsection (1) to make an application to or a lodgment with the
Director-General, the Director-General may serve on the person any
acknowledgment, approval, certificate, direction, notice, permit or
other document in connection with the application or lodgment, by
sending it to the person’s account with the electronic service.

 (3) Service of a document on a person under subsection (2) takes
effect at the time when an electronic record of the document reaches
the person’s account with the electronic service.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 106

(4) This section applies despite anything to the contrary in this Act.

 (5) In this section, “electronic record” has the meaning given by
section 2(1) of the Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Registration, appointment and duties of registered inspectors

 46O.—(1) The Director-General must keep and maintain a register
in which must be entered the names and prescribed particulars of all
persons registered under this section as registered inspectors.

 (2) Regulations made under section 111 may provide for —

       (a) the manner and form in which the register is to be kept and
            open for inspection;

       (b) the manner of making applications by persons to be
            registered inspectors;

       (c) the qualifications of registered inspectors and their
            appointment;

       (d) the duties and responsibilities of registered inspectors; and

       (e) the circumstances in which the registration may be
            cancelled.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

                                    PART 6

    INSANITARY PREMISES, SANITARY CONVENIENCES,
   GENERAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDINGS

                             Insanitary premises

Premises in unwholesome state

 47. Where the Director‑General is of the opinion that any premises,
whether tenantable or otherwise, or any part of the premises are in an
unclean, grimy, neglected, unkempt or insanitary condition, he or she
may by a written order direct the owner or occupier of the premises to
take all or any of the following measures at the expense of that owner
or occupier within a time and date to be specified in the order:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

107  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (a) remove all rank or noisome vegetation, refuse or other
          matter within those premises or part of those premises, or
          in the immediate vicinity of those premises, to such place
          or otherwise dispose of it at such place, as may be specified
          in the order;

     (b) cleanse the premises or part of the premises internally or
          externally, or both internally and externally, and if
          necessary disinfect it.

Destruction of rats, wasps, bees, etc.

 48.—(1) Where the Director‑General is of the opinion that —

       (a) any premises are so infested with rats, mice, insects or
            other vermin; or

       (b) there exist, in any premises, wasps, bees, hornets or other
            insects capable of stinging and the Director‑General is of
            the opinion that there is a probability, risk or danger that
            the persons in those premises or in the vicinity of those
            premises may be stung by them, or if any of those persons
            has been stung by them,

the Director‑General may, by written notice, require the owner or
occupier of the premises at the owner’s or occupier’s own expense to
take any measures that the Director‑General may consider necessary,
within such time and date as may be specified in the notice, for the
destruction of the rats, mice, wasps, bees, hornets or other insects or
vermins, for the removal of their breeding places and for preventing
their reappearance.

 (2) Where wasps, bees, hornets or other insects capable of stinging
exist in any vacant premises and the owner cannot by the exercise of
reasonable diligence be found, and the Director‑General is of the
opinion that persons in the vicinity of the premises are in imminent
danger of being stung by them, or if those persons have been stung by
them, the Director‑General may enter upon the premises and take any
measures that he or she considers necessary for their destruction, for
the removal of their breeding places and for preventing their
reappearance.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 108

 (3) The costs and expenses incurred under subsection (2) must be
borne by the Agency.

Closing and demolition, etc., of insanitary dwellings

 49.—(1) Where the Director‑General is of the opinion that any
building or part of the building or anything attached to a building used
or occupied as a dwelling house is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be rendered fit therefor without the removal, alteration or
demolition in whole or in part of any partition, compartment, loft,
gallery, pent roof, outhouse or other structure or erection or without
the execution of any alterations or structural operations that he or she
may specify, the Director‑General may, by written notice, require the
owner thereof to carry into effect all or any of the following:

       (a) the removal, alteration or demolition of the whole or a part
            of the partitions or other erections or obstructions
            complained of;

       (b) the execution of any operations or structural alterations
            that are necessary to render the premises fit for human
            habitation and to guard against danger of disease.

 (2) The notice must give at least 24 hours in advance for the
commencement of the operation enjoined and must specify the period
within which the operation must be completed.

 (3) A person must not, without the express written permission of
the Director‑General, replace any partition, erection or obstruction
removed under subsection (1) and the Director‑General or any
authorised officer may enter upon such premises and remove the
partition, erection or obstruction.

 (4) The Director‑General may also, by notice to be posted in a
conspicuous position upon the building, require the owner or
occupier (as the case may be) to cease to inhabit the building and
to remove all goods, furniture and effects from the building within
48 hours from the posting of the notice.

 (5) The owner and every occupying tenant must thereupon comply
with the requirements of the notice.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

109  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) At the expiry of 48 hours from the posting of the notice
mentioned in subsection (4), the Director‑General or any authorised
officer may remove all goods, furniture and effects from the building.

Overcrowding of houses

 50. A person must not permit a house to be so overcrowded as in the
opinion of the Director‑General to be injurious or dangerous to the
health of the residents of the house.

           Sanitary conveniences, drains, sewers and wells

Public toilets

 51. The Director‑General may provide and maintain in proper and
convenient locations toilets for public use and may charge a fee for
the use of those toilets or may license those toilets for such periods
and on payment of such fees as he or she may think fit.

Insufficient and defective sanitary conveniences

 52.—(1) If it appears to the Director‑General that —

       (a) any building or part of the building is without sufficient
            sanitary conveniences; or

       (b) any sanitary conveniences provided for or in connection
            with a building or part of the building are in such a state as
            to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance and cannot without
            reconstruction be put into a satisfactory condition,

the Director‑General must, by written notice to the owner of the
building, require the owner to provide the building or any part of the
building with any sanitary conveniences that may be necessary for the
use of persons using the building.

 (2) The Director‑General may, in his or her discretion, by written
notice to the owner of any building or part of the building, require the
owner to re-site any toilet attached thereto.

Repairs

 53. If it appears to the Director‑General that any sanitary
conveniences provided for or in connection with a building or part

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 110

of the building are in such a state as to be defective or prejudicial to
health or a nuisance, but that they can without reconstruction be put
into a satisfactory condition, the Director‑General must, by written
notice, require the owner or occupier of the building to execute such
works or to take such steps by cleansing the sanitary conveniences or
otherwise as may be necessary for that purpose.

Sanitary conveniences in work premises or work place

 54.—(1) Any premises which are used as work premises or work
place must be provided —

       (a) with adequate sanitary conveniences sited at any locations
            that the Director‑General may think fit, having regard to
            the number of persons employed in, or in attendance at, the
            work premises or work place; and

       (b) where persons of both sexes are employed or in attendance,
            with adequate separate sanitary conveniences for persons
            of each sex, unless the Director‑General is satisfied that in
            the circumstances of any particular case the provision of
            those separate sanitary conveniences is unnecessary.

 (2) If it appears to the Director‑General that subsection (1) has not
been complied with in the case of any work premises or work place,
he or she must, by written notice, require the owner or the occupier of
the work premises or work place (as the case may be) to —

       (a) make such alterations in the existing sanitary
            conveniences; and

       (b) provide such additional sanitary conveniences as may be
            necessary.

Care of sanitary conveniences

 55.—(1) The owner and the occupier of every building in or in
connection with which a toilet or urinal is provided must cause the
flushing apparatus thereof to be kept supplied with water sufficient
for flushing.

 (2) Where sanitary conveniences are used in common by the
members of 2 or more families or by members of the public or by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

111  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

employees, the owner, occupier, chief or principal tenant or the
person in charge of the building concerned (as the case may be) must
maintain the sanitary conveniences in a clean and hygienic manner
without causing any nuisance to sight or smell.

Inadequate bathroom facilities

 56. If it appears to the Director‑General that any building or part of
the building is without any bathroom or without adequate facilities
for bathing, he or she may, by written notice to the owner of the
building, require the owner to provide the building with one or more
bathrooms or with such facilities for bathing as the Director‑General
may consider adequate.

Construction and maintenance of private drains

 57.—(1) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require the
owner of any land or the owner of adjoining lands, at the expense of
the owner to —

       (a) construct such drain or number of drains as the
            Director‑General may consider necessary in accordance
            with such specifications as the Director‑General may think
            fit; and

       (b) maintain and keep in a clean and sanitary condition any
            drain or drains so constructed or any other existing drain or
            drains in such land.

 (2) For the purpose of ensuring a free flow of water, the
Director‑General may cause one or more drains to be constructed
through, across or under any land after giving written notice in that
behalf to the owner of the land, doing as little damage as may be and
making full compensation for any damage done.

 (3) If any dispute arises concerning the amount or apportionment of
compensation, it must be settled in the manner provided in section 89.

Drains, etc., to be kept in order at cost of owners

 58.—(1) All drains or any appurtenance thereof must be altered,
repaired and kept in proper order at the expense of the owners of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 112

land and buildings to which the drains or appurtenance belong or for
the use of which they are maintained.

 (2) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require the owner
of any land or building to alter, repair or put any drain or any
appurtenance thereof in good order in the manner required by the
Director‑General.

 (3) In any case where an authorised officer is satisfied that an
emergency exists and that it is necessary immediately to alter, repair
or put in good order and condition any drain or any appurtenance
thereto, the authorised officer may —

(a) enter with any assistants and workmen that are necessary
     upon any land or building; and

(b) do or cause to be done any alterations, repairs, works, acts
     or things that are necessary for any of the purposes under
     this subsection.

 (4) The expenses reasonably and necessarily incurred in so doing
may be recovered from the person who is the owner of the land or
building when the work is completed, and in default of agreement the
amount of such expenses may be determined under section 89, and
section 92 applies to the amount for which judgment is given.

 (5) Any person who constructs, rebuilds or unstops any drain or any
appurtenance thereto, which has been ordered by the
Director‑General to be demolished or stopped up or not to be made
shall be guilty of an offence.

Restriction on construction of wells, etc.

 59.—(1) A person other than the owner or occupier of an
agricultural or horticultural holding must not, without the previous
permission of the Director‑General, open, dig or otherwise construct
or permit or allow to be opened, dug or otherwise constructed any
well, tank or reservoir, the water in which is likely to be used for
drinking, domestic or other purposes.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), any well within the curtilage
of any dwelling house is deemed to be likely to be used for drinking
or domestic purposes.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

113  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) If the owner or occupier of any agricultural or horticultural
holding opens, digs or otherwise constructs or permits or allows to be
opened, dug or otherwise constructed any well, tank or reservoir, the
owner or occupier must report the opening, digging or construction of
the well, tank or reservoir (as the case may be) within one month
thereof to the Director‑General.

 (4) The Director‑General may give to the owner or occupier of any
premises notice to close any well, tank or reservoir, the water in
which is likely to be used for drinking or domestic purposes and may
by the notice specify any works to be executed for such purpose
within a time and date to be specified in the notice, and the owner or
occupier must comply with the terms of the notice.

               General health requirements for buildings

Publicly accessible premises to be kept clean, etc.

 60.—(1) The manager of any publicly accessible premises must —

       (a) regularly clean, and keep clean and in good repair, the
            premises;

       (b) keep the premises free of conditions that may endanger the
            lives or health of the manager’s employees or other users of
            the premises; and

       (c) where the premises are specified premises, comply with
            the additional requirements relating to specified premises
            under this Act.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) Where, in the opinion of the Director‑General, the manager of
any publicly accessible premises fails to comply with
subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c), the Director‑General may, by written
notice, require the manager within such period as may be specified in
the notice to take any steps that the Director-General may think fit.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) In the case of any publicly accessible premises that are
air‑conditioned, the Director‑General may, by written notice —

       (a) prescribe temperature and humidity controls for the
            air‑conditioned premises; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 114

(b) require the manager of the premises —

          (i) to install automatic devices for recording the
              temperature and humidity level in the premises; and

          (ii) to keep such records and charts of the temperature
               and humidity level in such premises as the
               Director‑General may direct for the inspection of
               the Director‑General.

                                                                                                 [33/2020]

Director-General may require employers to provide mess
rooms, etc.

 61. The Director‑General may, in his or her discretion, by written
notice, require any employer to provide for the employer’s
employees, if in the opinion of the Director‑General the conditions
or circumstances under which the employees work so warrant,
suitable and sufficient facilities by way of mess rooms, rest rooms,
canteens, changing rooms or pantries or to improve upon the same if
the Director‑General considers the existing facilities inadequate.

Environmental Control Coordinators and Environmental
Control Officers

 61A.—(1) An individual must not act as an Environmental Control
Coordinator or an Environmental Control Officer unless the
individual is registered as such, and the registration is not
suspended, under this Act.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

(2) The Director-General may —

(a) subject to any condition that the Director‑General thinks fit
     to impose, register any individual as an Environmental
     Control Coordinator or an Environmental Control Officer;
     or

(b) refuse such registration.

                                                                   [33/2020]

 (3) The Director-General may, by written notice, suspend or cancel
the registration of an Environmental Control Coordinator or an

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

115  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Environmental Control Officer (called in this section a registered
person) if —

     (a) the registered person procured the registration by
          providing any particulars, document or information, or
          by making any statement or representation, to the
          Director‑General which is false or misleading in any
          material particular; or

     (b) the Director-General is satisfied that the registered person
          has contravened any of the following:

     (i) any provision of this Act;

     (ii) any regulations made under section 111;

     (iii) any applicable code of practice or standard of
           performance;

     (iv) any condition of the registration.

                                                              [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General must, before suspending or cancelling the
registration of a registered person under subsection (3), give the
registered person a written notice of the Director‑General’s intention
to do so and an opportunity to submit reasons, within the period
specified in that notice, as to why the registration should not be
suspended or cancelled.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Any individual who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

     (a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

     (b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
          $10,000.

                                                                                                      [33/2020]

Appeal against decisions made under section 61A

 61B.—(1) Any individual who is aggrieved by the
Director‑General’s decision to —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 116

(a) impose any condition on the individual’s registration as an
     Environmental Control Coordinator or an Environmental
     Control Officer under section 61A(2)(a);

(b) refuse the registration of the individual under
     section 61A(2)(b); or

          (c) suspend or cancel the individual’s registration under
              section 61A(3),

may, within 14 days after the individual receives the decision, appeal
in writing to the Minister.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) After considering the appeal, the Minister may —

(a) confirm the Director-General’s decision;

(b) rescind the Director-General’s decision; or

          (c) substitute or vary the Director-General’s decision and
              make any decision which the Director‑General is
              competent to make under section 61A(2) or (3), as the
              case may be.

                                                                                                          [33/2020]

(3) The Minister’s decision on the appeal is final.

                                                                   [33/2020]

 (4) The Minister’s decision on the appeal must be given to the
appellant.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Where an appeal is made under subsection (1) against any
decision of the Director‑General under section 61A(3), the execution
of that decision must be stayed until the outcome of the appeal.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Appointment of Environmental Control Officer in
construction site

 62.—(1) This section applies to any class or description of
construction sites that the Agency may, with the approval of the
Minister by order in the Gazette, specify.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

117  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The occupier of any construction site to which this section
applies must appoint a registered Environmental Control Officer for
the construction site.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) Despite subsection (2), where a construction site has more than
one occupier, the Director‑General may, by written notice, require the
developer of that construction site to appoint a registered
Environmental Control Officer for that construction site, and the
developer must ensure that a registered Environmental Control
Officer is appointed for the construction site until the completion of
the works in that construction site.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 33/2020]

 (4) A registered Environmental Control Officer appointed for a
construction site under this section must be so appointed on a
full‑time or part-time basis, as may be specified in the order under
subsection (1), for the purpose of exercising general supervision
within the construction sites of the observance of the provisions of
this Act, the Control of Vectors and Pesticides Act 1998, the
Environmental Protection and Management Act 1999 and the
Sewerage, Drainage and Coastal Protection Act 1999, and any
regulations made under those Acts.

                                                                                                [26/2007; 33/2020]

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2026 wef 29/05/2026]

Appointment of Environmental Control Coordinator or
Environmental Control Officer for specified premises

 62A.—(1) This section applies to premises for which an
environmental sanitation programme is required (called specified
premises).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, by order in
the Gazette —

       (a) designate as specified premises any publicly accessible
            premises (or class of publicly accessible premises);

       (b) designate as specified premises any of the following
            premises (or class of premises) that are not publicly
            accessible:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 118

          (i) any premises (or class of premises) owned, managed
              or occupied by the Government or a statutory body;

          (ii) any premises (or class of premises) used, or intended
               to be used, for a commercial or an industrial purpose,
               or for mixed purposes the predominant purpose of
               which is either a commercial or an industrial
               purpose;

          (iii) any recreational facility or class of recreational
                facilities;

          (iv) any common property (or class of common property)
               of any residential premises (or class of residential
               premises), or of any premises (or class of premises)
               mentioned in sub‑paragraph (ii);

          (v) any premises (or class of premises) for which an
               environmental sanitation programme is assessed to
               be necessary to minimise or alleviate the risk of, or to
               prevent or manage, an outbreak or a spread of any
               infectious disease;

          (c) designate any class, description or type of specified
              premises for which an Environmental Control
              Coordinator must be appointed; and

      (d) designate any class, description or type of specified
           premises for which an Environmental Control Officer
           must be appointed.

                                                                                                         [33/2020]

(3) The manager of any specified premises must —

(a) where the specified premises are of a class, description or
     type for which an Environmental Control Coordinator
     must be appointed — appoint a registered Environmental
     Control Coordinator as the Environmental Control
     Coordinator for that specified premises; or

(b) where the specified premises are of a class, description or
     type for which an Environmental Control Officer must be
     appointed — appoint a registered Environmental Control

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

119  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

            Officer as the Environmental Control Officer for that
            specified premises.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), the manager of the specified
premises may appoint himself, herself or itself as the Environmental
Control Coordinator or Environmental Control Officer (as the case
may be) for the specified premises in accordance with that subsection
if the manager is registered as such under this Act.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Any person that contravenes subsection (3)(a) or (b) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

     (a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

     (b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
          $10,000.

                                                                                                      [33/2020]

Environmental sanitation programme for specified premises

 62B.—(1) The Environmental Control Coordinator or
Environmental Control Officer for any specified premises must, in
accordance with the applicable codes of practice and standards of
performance and any regulations made under section 111 —

       (a) develop an environmental sanitation programme for the
            specified premises;

       (b) where the Director-General requires the environmental
            sanitation programme to be amended, amend that
            environmental sanitation programme in the manner
            directed by the Director‑General in writing;

       (c) review and update the environmental sanitation
            programme in the manner required by the applicable
            codes of practice or standards of performance;

       (d) submit the developed, amended or updated (as the case
            may be) environmental sanitation programme to the
            manager of the specified premises;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 120

          (e) monitor the implementation of the developed, amended or
              updated (as the case may be) environmental sanitation
              programme;

          (f) identify and notify the manager of any default in the
              implementation of the environmental sanitation
              programme; and

       (g) recommend remedial measures to address any default in
            the implementation of the environmental sanitation
            programme.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) The manager of the specified premises must, in accordance with
any regulations made under section 111 —

(a) endorse and submit to the Director-General the
     environmental sanitation programme mentioned in
     subsection (1)(d) (or, where section 62A(4) applies, the
     environmental sanitation programme developed, amended
     or updated (as the case may be) by the manager in the
     manager’s capacity as the Environmental Control
     Coordinator or Environmental Control Officer for the
     specified premises);

(b) implement that environmental sanitation programme upon
     endorsing it; and

       (c) implement any remedial measures recommended under
            subsection (1)(g).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) Any manager that contravenes subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

       (b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) In this section, “implement”, in relation to an environmental
sanitation programme or remedial measures, includes the carrying
out of activities and measures specified in the environmental

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

121  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

sanitation programme or remedial measures (as the case may be), and
“implementation” is to be construed accordingly.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Power to give directives

 62C.—(1) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Minister, give a directive in such form and manner as the
Director‑General thinks fit, in respect of any premises or class of
premises (called in this section the relevant premises), or any public
service vehicle or class of public service vehicles (called in this
section the relevant vehicle) if it appears to the Director‑General
that —

       (a) the use of the relevant premises or the operation of the
            relevant vehicle is likely to endanger the health of any
            person and the directive is necessary to prevent or manage
            that risk; or

       (b) the directive is necessary to prevent or manage the
            outbreak or spread of any infectious disease.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) A directive given under subsection (1) must be complied with
by the following persons (called in this section the responsible
person):

       (a) where the directive applies to any relevant premises — the
            manager of those premises;

       (b) where the directive applies to any relevant vehicle — the
            operator of that vehicle.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a directive given under that
subsection may require the responsible person to do all or any of the
following:

       (a) close the relevant premises, or any part of the relevant
            premises, for a period not exceeding 14 days for the
            purpose of cleaning or disinfecting the relevant premises,
            or any part of the relevant premises;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 122

(b) clean or disinfect the relevant premises or the relevant
     vehicle in the manner and within the time specified in the
     directive;

       (c) provide every individual who is to carry out the cleaning or
            disinfecting of the relevant premises or relevant vehicle
            with appropriate personal protective equipment, and
            ensure that the individual wears the personal protective
            equipment when carrying out the cleaning or disinfecting
            work.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General may, with the approval of the Minister, by
written notice, renew any directive mentioned in subsection (3)(a) for
any period (not exceeding 14 days each time) specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Where a directive under subsection (1) or a notice of renewal
under subsection (4) applies to or affects a class of responsible
persons, it may be published in any manner that the Director‑General
thinks necessary for bringing it to the notice of those responsible
persons.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) Any responsible person that fails to comply with a directive
given under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

(a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

       (b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (7) Without affecting any proceedings under subsection (6), if a
responsible person fails to comply with any directive given under
subsection (1) —

(a) the Director-General may without warrant and with such
     force as may be necessary, enter the relevant premises or
     the relevant vehicle and take or cause to be taken any steps
     which the Director‑General considers to be necessary to
     secure compliance with the directive; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

123  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

       (b) the responsible person is liable for any costs and expenses
            incurred by the Director‑General in exercise of the powers
            conferred under paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (8) A reference in this section to a directive given under
subsection (1) includes, where subsection (4) applies, a reference
to the renewed directive under subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Monitoring powers for purposes of sections 62A, 62B and 62C

 62D.—(1) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed
under section 3(2) may, by written notice —

       (a) inspect any specified premises, for the purposes of
            administering or enforcing section 62A or 62B or
            ascertaining whether that section has been complied
            with; or

       (b) inspect any premises or public service vehicle in respect of
            which a directive is given under section 62C(1), for the
            purpose of ascertaining whether the directive has been
            complied with.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed under
section 3(2) may also, by written notice, require the Environmental
Control Coordinator or Environmental Control Officer for any
specified premises to provide, within a reasonable period, and in
the form and manner specified in the notice, all documents and
information which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the Director‑General or
            authorised officer considers necessary for the purposes
            of administering or enforcing section 62A or 62B or
            ascertaining whether that section has been complied with;
            and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of the Environmental Control
                   Coordinator or Environmental Control Officer; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 124

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the
                   Environmental Control Coordinator or
                   Environmental Control Officer.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) The power to require an Environmental Control Coordinator or
an Environmental Control Officer to provide any document or
information under subsection (2) includes the power —

(a) to require the Environmental Control Coordinator or
     Environmental Control Officer to provide an explanation
     of the document or information;

(b) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
     form, to require the information to be made available in
     legible form to the Director‑General or an authorised
     officer appointed under section 3(2); and

       (c) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            the Environmental Control Coordinator or Environmental
            Control Officer to state, to the best of his or her knowledge
            and belief, where it is and how it may be obtained.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed under
section 3(2) is entitled without payment to make and retain copies of
any document or information provided to the Director‑General or
authorised officer under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Any individual who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the individual by a notice under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), it is a reasonable excuse for
an individual to refuse or fail to provide any document or information
which the individual is required by a notice under subsection (2) to
provide if doing so might tend to incriminate that individual.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

125                        Act 1987                           2020 Ed.

Application to Government

 62E. Sections 60 to 62D apply to any premises owned, managed or
occupied by the Government and any public service vehicle owned or
operated by the Government.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

                                    PART 7

                          AQUATIC FACILITIES

Licensable aquatic facilities

 63.—(1) The owner or occupier of any premises in or on which a
licensable aquatic facility is located, must not use or operate, or allow
the use or operation of, the licensable aquatic facility unless that
owner or occupier holds a valid aquatic facility licence for that
purpose.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

       (b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Prohibition of use or operation of aquatic facility

 64.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice (called in this
section the cessation notice), require the cessation (immediately or
within the time specified in the cessation notice) of the use or
operation of any aquatic facility or class of aquatic facilities (called in
this section the relevant aquatic facility) for all or any of the purposes
specified in subsection (2) if —

       (a) it appears to the Director‑General that —

               (i) the use or operation of the relevant aquatic facility is
                   likely to endanger the health of any person and the
                   cessation is necessary to prevent or manage that risk;
                   or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 126

          (ii) the cessation is necessary to prevent or manage the
               outbreak or spread of any infectious disease; or

(b) in the case where the relevant aquatic facility is a
     licensable aquatic facility, the Director‑General is
     satisfied that any of the following (called in this section
     the applicable requirement) has been contravened in
     respect of the relevant aquatic facility:

          (i) any provision of this Part;

          (ii) any regulations made under section 111 in relation to
               licensable aquatic facilities;

            (iii) any condition of the aquatic facility licence for the
                  relevant aquatic facility.

                                                                                                         [33/2020]

(2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

(a) the taking and analysis of any materials (whether solid,
     liquid, gaseous or vapour) found in or on the relevant
     aquatic facility;

(b) the cleaning or disinfecting of the relevant aquatic facility;

          (c) the conducting of investigations relating to the relevant
              aquatic facility or any outbreak, suspected outbreak or
              spread of any infectious disease; and

       (d) the implementation of remedial measures in relation to the
            relevant aquatic facility.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) The cessation notice must be complied with by the owner or
occupier of the premises in or on which the relevant aquatic facility is
located (called in this section the responsible person).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General must, by written notice (called in this
section the resumption notice), permit the resumption of the use or
operation of the relevant aquatic facility when the Director‑General is
satisfied that —

(a) where the cessation notice is issued under
     subsection (1)(a)(i) — the use or operation of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

127  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     relevant aquatic facility is no longer likely to endanger the
     health of any person;

     (b) where the cessation notice is issued under
          subsection (1)(a)(ii) — the cessation of the use or
          operation of the relevant aquatic facility is no longer
          necessary to prevent or manage the outbreak or spread of
          any infectious disease; or

       (c) where the cessation notice is issued under
            subsection (1)(b) — the Director‑General is satisfied that
            the responsible person is no longer in contravention of the
            applicable requirement.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Where the cessation notice or resumption notice applies to or
affects a class of responsible persons, it may be published in any
manner that the Director‑General thinks necessary for bringing it to
the notice of those responsible persons.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) Any person that contravenes any notice issued under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Monitoring powers for purposes of this Part

 65.—(1) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed
under section 3(2) may, by written notice —

       (a) inspect any aquatic facility for the purposes of
            administering or enforcing this Part or ascertaining
            whether this Part has been complied with; and

       (b) take and retain samples of any materials (whether solid,
            liquid, gaseous or vapour) found in or on the aquatic
            facility for analysis.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed under
section 3(2) may also, by written notice, require the owner or
occupier of any premises in or on which any aquatic facility is located

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
           Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.   Act 1987                                                128

to provide, within a reasonable period, and in the form and manner
specified in the notice, all documents and information which —

(a) relate to any matter which the Director‑General or
     authorised officer considers necessary for the purposes
     of administering or enforcing this Part or ascertaining
     whether this Part has been complied with; and

(b) are —

          (i) within the knowledge of the owner or occupier; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the owner or
                   occupier.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) The power to require an owner or occupier to provide any
document or information under subsection (2) includes the power —

(a) to require the owner or occupier to provide an explanation
     of the document or information;

(b) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
     form, to require the information to be made available in
     legible form to the Director‑General or an authorised
     officer appointed under section 3(2); and

       (c) if the document or information is not provided, to require
            the owner or occupier to state, to the best of the knowledge
            and belief of the owner or occupier, where it is and how it
            may be obtained.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed under
section 3(2) is entitled without payment to make and retain copies of
any document or information provided to the Director‑General or
authorised officer under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Any person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by a notice under subsection (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

129  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), it is a reasonable excuse for a
person to refuse or fail to provide any document or information which
the person is required by a notice under subsection (2) to provide if
doing so might tend to incriminate that person.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Application to Government

 66. This Part applies to any aquatic facility owned, managed or
operated by the Government.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

     PART 7A

     AEROSOL-GENERATING SYSTEMS

Registrable aerosol-generating systems

 66A.—(1) The owner or occupier of any premises in or on which a
registrable aerosol‑generating system is installed, must not use or
operate, or allow the use or operation of, the registrable
aerosol‑generating system unless the aerosol‑generating system is
registered by that owner or occupier under this Act and the
registration is not suspended.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

(2) The Director-General may —

     (a) subject to any condition that the Director‑General thinks fit
          to impose, register the registrable aerosol‑generating
          system; or

     (b) refuse such registration.

                                                              [33/2020]

 (3) The registration of the registered aerosol‑generating system by
the owner or occupier (called in this section the registered owner or
occupier) under subsection (2)(a) is not transferable to any other
person.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General may, by written notice, suspend or cancel
the registration of an aerosol‑generating system if —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 130

(a) the registered owner or occupier procured the registration
     by providing any particulars, document or information, or
     by making any statement or representation, to the
     Director‑General which is false or misleading in any
     material particular; or

(b) the Director-General is satisfied that the registered owner
     or occupier has contravened any of the following:

          (i) any provision of this Part;

          (ii) any regulations made under section 111 in relation to
               registrable aerosol‑generating systems;

          (iii) any condition of the registration.

                                                                   [33/2020]

 (5) The Director-General must, before suspending or cancelling the
registration of the aerosol‑generating system under subsection (4),
give the registered owner or occupier a written notice of the
Director‑General’s intention to do so and an opportunity to submit
reasons, within the period specified in that notice, as to why the
registration should not be suspended or cancelled.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) The Director-General may also, on the application of the
registered owner or occupier, cancel the registration of any registered
aerosol‑generating system.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (7) Any person that contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) for a first offence, to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

(b) for a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
     $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 months or to both.

                                                                                                 [33/2020]

Prohibition of use or operation of aerosol-generating system

 66B.—(1) The Director-General may, by written notice (called in
this section the cessation notice) require the cessation (immediately
or within the time specified in the cessation notice) of the use or
operation of any aerosol‑generating system or class of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

131  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

aerosol‑generating systems (called in this section the relevant
aerosol‑generating system) for all or any of the purposes specified
in subsection (2) if —

     (a) it appears to the Director-General that —

     (i) the use or operation of the relevant
         aerosol‑generating system is likely to endanger the
         health of any person and the cessation is necessary to
         prevent or manage that risk; or

     (ii) the cessation is necessary to prevent or manage the
          outbreak or spread of any infectious disease; or

     (b) in the case where the relevant aerosol‑generating system is
          a registrable aerosol‑generating system, the
          Director‑General is satisfied that any of the following
          (called in this section the applicable requirement) has been
          contravened in respect of the relevant aerosol‑generating
          system:

     (i) any provision of this Part;

     (ii) any regulations made under section 111 in relation to
          registrable aerosol‑generating systems;

            (iii) any condition of the registration of the relevant
                  aerosol‑generating system.

                                                                                                         [33/2020]

(2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1) are —

     (a) the taking and analysis of any materials (whether solid,
          liquid, gaseous or vapour) found in or on the relevant
          aerosol‑generating system;

     (b) the cleaning or disinfecting of the relevant
          aerosol‑generating system;

     (c) the conducting of investigations relating to the relevant
         aerosol‑generating system or any outbreak, suspected
         outbreak or spread of any infectious disease; and

     (d) the implementation of remedial measures in relation to the
          relevant aerosol‑generating system.

                                                                                                      [33/2020]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 132

 (3) The cessation notice must be complied with by the owner or
occupier of the premises in or on which the relevant
aerosol‑generating system is located (called in this section the
responsible person).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) The Director-General must, by written notice (called in this
section the resumption notice), permit the resumption of use or
operation of the relevant aerosol-generating system when the
Director‑General is satisfied that —

(a) where the cessation notice is issued under
     subsection (1)(a)(i) — the use or operation of the
     relevant aerosol‑generating system is no longer likely to
     endanger the health of any person;

(b) where the cessation notice is issued under
     subsection (1)(a)(ii) — the cessation of the use or
     operation of the relevant aerosol‑generating system is no
     longer necessary to prevent or manage the outbreak or
     spread of any infectious disease; or

       (c) where the cessation notice is issued under
            subsection (1)(b) — the Director‑General is satisfied that
            the responsible person is no longer in contravention of the
            applicable requirement.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Where the cessation notice or resumption notice applies to or
affects a class of responsible persons, it may be published in any
manner that the Director‑General thinks necessary for bringing it to
the notice of those responsible persons.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) Any person that contravenes any notice issued under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Monitoring powers for purposes of this Part

 66C.—(1) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed
under section 3(2) may, by written notice —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                Environmental Public Health

133             Act 1987                                      2020 Ed.

     (a) inspect any aerosol-generating system for the purposes of
          administering or enforcing this Part or ascertaining
          whether this Part has been complied with; and

       (b) take and retain samples of any materials (whether solid,
            liquid, gaseous or vapour) found in or on the
            aerosol‑generating system for analysis.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed under
section 3(2) may also, by written notice, require the owner or
occupier of any premises in or on which any aerosol‑generating
system is installed to provide, within a reasonable period, and in the
form and manner specified in the notice, all documents and
information which —

     (a) relate to any matter which the Director‑General or
          authorised officer considers necessary for the purposes
          of administering or enforcing this Part or ascertaining
          whether this Part has been complied with; and

     (b) are —

     (i) within the knowledge of the owner or occupier; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the owner or
                   occupier.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) The power to require an owner or occupier to provide any
document or information under subsection (2) includes the power —

     (a) to require the owner or occupier to provide an explanation
          of the document or information;

     (b) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
          form, to require the information to be made available in
          legible form to the Director‑General or an authorised
          officer appointed under section 3(2); and

     (c) if the document or information is not provided, to require
         the owner or occupier to state, to the best of the knowledge
         and belief of the owner or occupier, where it is and how it
         may be obtained.

                                                                                                     [33/2020]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                     134

 (4) The Director-General or an authorised officer appointed under
section 3(2) is entitled without payment to make and retain copies of
any document or information provided to the Director‑General or
authorised officer under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) Any person that, without reasonable excuse, fails to do anything
required of the person by a notice under subsection (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), it is a reasonable excuse for a
person to refuse or fail to provide any document or information which
the person is required by a notice under subsection (2) to provide if
doing so might tend to incriminate that person.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Application to Government

 66D. This Part applies to any aerosol‑generating system owned,
managed or operated by the Government.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

                                    PART 8
  FUNERAL PARLOURS, CEMETERIES AND CREMATORIA
Licensing of funeral parlours, cemeteries and crematoria
 67. A person must not establish, use, manage, operate or run any
premises as a funeral parlour, cemetery or crematoria without first
obtaining a licence from the Director‑General.
 68. [Repealed by Act 48 of 2018]

Corpse not to be retained beyond 48 hours unless encoffined
 69.—(1) No corpse may be retained in any premises, including a

funeral parlour, for a period longer than 48 hours after death, unless
the corpse is encoffined in a hermetically sealed coffin or is
embalmed.

 (2) So long as the corpse is encoffined in a hermetically sealed
coffin or is embalmed, it may be retained in any premises, including a

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

135  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

funeral parlour, for a period not exceeding 7 days after death, but
where it is intended to retain a corpse for a period exceeding 7 days,
the written permission of the Director‑General must be obtained.

Decomposed corpse

 70. No corpse in an advanced stage of decomposition may be
received into any funeral parlour unless encoffined in a hermetically
sealed coffin.

Agency may provide cemeteries and crematoria

 71. The Agency may provide suitable places to be used as public
cemeteries and crematoria and must make proper provisions for
maintaining them.

Places which may be used for burials, etc.

 72.—(1) No place may be used or prepared for the burial or
cremation of any corpse except cemeteries or crematoria provided by
the Agency or licensed by the Director‑General under section 67.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Minister may permit the burial at any
suitable place of the corpse of any person who in the opinion of the
Minister has rendered outstanding or meritorious service to
Singapore.

Unlawful burials

 73.—(1) A person must not bury or cremate or cause or procure or
allow to be buried or cremated any corpse in or upon any place, not
being a place where burial or cremation is permitted under this Act or
prepare any such place to be used for the burial or cremation of any
corpse.

 (2) The Director‑General may, by written notice, require any person
who has been convicted of an offence under this section to remove
within 14 days —

       (a) the corpse in respect of the unlawful interment of which the
            person has been convicted from the place in which it has
            been buried to a lawful burial ground; and

       (b) any structure which has been erected at the place.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 136

 (3) If, within 14 days, the person convicted produces to the
Director‑General a licence granted under section 67, the notice may
be cancelled.

 (4) Any person who refuses or neglects to comply with the notice
shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) The Director‑General may proceed to authorise any person to
carry the notice into execution at the expense of the person so
refusing or so neglecting to comply with the notice and to hire or
employ proper persons for that purpose and may recover the expense
in the manner provided by law for the levy of fines imposed by a
court.

Power to close cemeteries, etc.

 74.—(1) If at any time it appears to the Director‑General that —

       (a) burials in any cemetery or place of burial should be wholly
            discontinued;

       (b) the cremation of corpses in any crematorium or any place
            used for the cremation of corpses should be wholly
            discontinued; or

       (c) any cemetery or place of burial, crematorium or any place
            used for the cremation of corpses or any part thereof is
            being used in contravention of any condition of the licence
            granted in respect of the cemetery or crematorium,

the Director‑General may order the cemetery or crematorium or any
part thereof to be closed and may revoke the licence thereof and
thereafter it is not lawful to use the cemetery or crematorium or part
thereof (as the case may be) as a place for the burial or cremation of
corpses.

 (2) No such closing or revocation has effect until it has been
confirmed by the Minister.

Unauthorised structure

 75.—(1) A person must not construct or erect any unauthorised
structure in any cemetery or crematorium.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

137  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The Director‑General must, by written notice, require any
person who constructs or erects an unauthorised structure in any
cemetery or crematorium to demolish or remove the structure within
such period as the Director‑General may specify, and if the person
fails to do so within the period specified, the Director‑General may
cause the structure to be removed or demolished.

Exhumation

 76.—(1) No corpse may be exhumed otherwise than —

       (a) by a notice from the Director‑General under section 73;

       (b) by order of a Magistrate, Coroner or Commissioner of
            Police for the purpose of judicial inquiry;

       (c) by written permission granted for that purpose by the
            Director‑General; and

       (d) by the Director‑General for the purpose of using the place
            where the corpse is buried for the burial of another corpse.

 (2) Any person who exhumes or causes to be exhumed or, being the
owner, trustee or person in charge of any burial ground, permits to be
exhumed any corpse in contravention of this section shall be guilty of
an offence.

 77. [Repealed by Act 48 of 2018]

                         PART 9
     [Deleted by Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

                                   PART 9A

                  GENERAL CLEANING INDUSTRY

Purpose of this Part

 80B. The purpose of this Part is to regulate and upgrade cleaning
standards and productivity in the cleaning industry in Singapore by
licensing cleaning businesses with requirements for the training of
cleaners and the payment of progressive wages to cleaners that ensure

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 138

a more engaged cleaning workforce and the retention of a core of
resident cleaners.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Non-application of sections 99 and 103

 80C.—(1) Section 99 does not apply to or in relation to any
cleaning business licence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Section 103 does not apply to the contravention of any provision
of this Part.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Carrying on cleaning business without cleaning business
licence prohibited

 80D.—(1) A person must not carry on a cleaning business in
Singapore, except under and in accordance with a cleaning business
licence that is in force.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (3) In this section, a person is presumed, until the contrary is
proved, to be carrying on a cleaning business if the person, directly or
indirectly, charges or receives any fee or reward for providing
cleaning work to other persons, or undertakes for a fee or reward to
provide cleaning work to other persons, as follows:

       (a) by contract of service, the person employs 2 or more
            individuals as cleaners to perform the cleaning work;

       (b) the person, having —

               (i) to achieve a stated result or outcome; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

139  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (ii) to supply all or substantially all of the plant or
          equipment or the tools of trade needed to perform the
          cleaning work,

     (b) by contract (whether or not a contract of service) engages
          2 or more individuals to perform the cleaning work; or

     (c) being a principal contractor, the person engages by
         contract (other than a contract of service) any person
         mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) to provide cleaning work
         to other persons.

                                                                                                     [15/2014]

Offence to engage unlicensed persons

 80E.—(1) Where —

       (a) a person (A) enters into or renews any contract (other than a
            contract of service) with another person (B) for cleaning
            work to be performed by cleaners engaged or employed by
            B on premises or any public place owned, occupied or
            managed by A; and

       (b) B does not hold a valid cleaning business licence as
            required by section 80D,

then, whether or not any criminal proceedings are instituted against B,
A shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for A to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that A did not
know and could not reasonably have been expected to know that B
did not hold a valid cleaning business licence as required by
section 80D.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Application for cleaning business licence

 80F.—(1) Every application for a cleaning business licence
must —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 140

 (a) be made to the Director‑General in any form and manner
      that the Director‑General may require;

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

(aa) state the class of cleaning business licence that is being
      applied for; and

                                                                        [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

 (b) be accompanied by —

          (i) the prescribed application fee (if any);

              (ii) a progressive wage plan in respect of the applicant’s
                   cleaning business that complies with the prescribed
                   requirements; and

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

             (iii) any other particulars, information and documents
                   that the Director‑General may require.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) The applicant must, at the request of the Director‑General,
provide any further information or evidence that the Director‑General
may require to decide the application.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (3) Any person who, in relation to any application for the grant or
renewal of a cleaning business licence, submits a false document or
makes a statement which is false or misleading in any material
particular shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a second
or subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Grant or refusal of cleaning business licence

 80G.—(1) The Director‑General may grant or refuse to grant a
cleaning business licence in accordance with this Part, and in every
case he or she must notify the applicant in writing of his or her
decision.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) There must be charged for the grant of any cleaning business
licence any fee that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

141  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) No applicant for, or holder of, a cleaning business licence is
entitled to any refund of any fee paid in respect of any application for
or grant of a cleaning business licence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (4) Subject to the provisions of this Part, an applicant is eligible for
a cleaning business licence if —

     (a) the applicant is a company registered under the Companies
          Act 1967, a limited liability partnership registered under
          the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005, a sole
          proprietorship or firm registered under the Business
          Names Registration Act 2014, a society registered under
          the Societies Act 1966 or an entity having a business or
          corporate structure that may be prescribed;

     (b) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

     (c) the progressive wage plan in respect of its cleaning
          business submitted by the applicant complies with the
          prescribed requirements;

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

     (d) in the case of an applicant who has one or more cleaners in
          the applicant’s employ at the time of the application — the
          applicant satisfies the Director-General that such
          proportion of the cleaners that the applicant employs,
          have attended such training, and at such frequency, as the
          Director-General may specify for the class of the cleaning
          business licence that is being applied for;

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

     (e) the paid‑up capital or (where the applicant is not a
          corporation) net worth of the applicant for the period
          specified by the Director‑General, is not less than the
          amount specified by the Director‑General for the class of
          the cleaning business licence that is being applied for (if
          specified);

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

     (f) the applicant has obtained a valid certification relating to
          the safety, health and welfare of persons at work in the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 142

            applicant’s workplace, of a type that is specified by the
            Director‑General for the class of the cleaning business
            licence that is being applied for (if specified); and

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

       (g) the applicant satisfies all other prescribed requirements for
            the class of the cleaning business licence that is being
            applied for.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 29/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

 (4A) The Director-General may subdivide cleaning business
licences (whether granted or renewed before, on or after the date of
commencement of section 19(1)(d) of the Environmental Public
Health (Amendment) Act 2023) into classes, such as according to any
of the following, and may grant or renew a cleaning business licence
on or after that date accordingly for one or more such classes:

(a) the type of cleaning business that the cleaning business
     licensee is authorised to carry on;

(b) the paid‑up capital or net worth (as the case may be) of the
     cleaning business licensee;

          (c) the cleaning business licensee’s compliance history
              with —

          (i) the requirements of this Act, the Central Provident
              Fund Act 1953, the Employment Act 1968, the
              Employment of Foreign Manpower Act 1990 and the
              Workplace Safety and Health Act 2006; and

            (ii) any order made by an Employment Claims Tribunal
                  under section 22 of the Employment Claims Act
                  2016.

                                                                               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (6) The Director‑General may, if he or she thinks fit, in any
particular case waive any (but not all) of the requirements of
subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

143  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (7) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the
Director‑General refusing to grant the person a cleaning business
licence may, within 14 days after the person is notified of that
decision, appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (8) In this section —

     “corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
        Companies Act 1967;

     “Employment Claims Tribunal” means a subordinate court
        called an Employment Claims Tribunal constituted under
        section 4 of the State Courts Act 1970;

     “net worth” of a person means the amount by which the person’s
        assets exceeds the person’s liabilities.

               [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

Conditions of cleaning business licence

 80H.—(1) Every cleaning business licence is subject to conditions
that may be prescribed by regulations made under section 111, which
may include —

       (a) conditions requiring the cleaning business licensee to enter
            into a contract of service in writing with each cleaner
            employed by the cleaning business licensee;

       (b) conditions requiring every contract of service entered into
            between the cleaning business licensee and every cleaner
            who is a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore (called
            in this section a resident cleaner) to provide for the
            payment of a basic wage or a progressive wage model
            bonus to the resident cleaner, that —

               (i) is not less than the amount; and

              (ii) in the case of a progressive wage model bonus, is to
                   be paid at the frequency,

       (b) specified by order under subsection (2) for the class of
            cleaners that the resident cleaner belongs to;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 144

          (c) conditions requiring the cleaning business licensee to
              ensure that every cleaner employed by the cleaning
              business licensee satisfies the training requirements as
              may be specified by the Director-General for the class of
              cleaners that the cleaner belongs to;

(d) conditions prohibiting the cleaning business licensee from
     deploying any individual who is not employed by the
     cleaning business licensee to carry out any cleaning work,
     unless the individual is a cleaner employed by another
     cleaning business licensee; and

          (e) conditions requiring the cleaning business licensee to keep
              such records, accounts or documents relating to the
              business or activities that the cleaning business licensee
              is authorised to carry out under the cleaning business
              licence, as may be prescribed, and retain those records,
              accounts or documents for a prescribed period.

 (2) For the purposes of the prescribed conditions referred to in
subsection (1)(b), the Commissioner for Labour must, by order,
specify the following that must be paid to every resident cleaner:

(a) the minimum amount of basic wage and the date that
     minimum amount takes effect;

(b) the minimum amount of progressive wage model bonus
     and the frequency at which the progressive wage model
     bonus is to be paid, and the date that minimum amount and
     frequency take effect.

(3) An order under subsection (2) may specify —

(a) different minimum amounts mentioned in
     subsection (2)(a); and

(b) different minimum amounts and different frequency of
     payments mentioned in subsection (2)(b),

for different classes of cleaners, and may be varied from time to time.

 (4) In making an order under subsection (2), the Commissioner for
Labour must consider the recommendations by the Tripartite Cluster
for Cleaners on remuneration for cleaners, if any.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

145  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (5) The Commissioner for Labour must publish every order he or
she makes under subsection (2) in any way he or she thinks
appropriate to bring the order to the notice of persons who, in his or
her opinion, ought to have notice of the order, except that failure to
comply with this subsection in respect of any order does not
invalidate the order.

 (6) The amount specified under subsection (2)(a) takes effect for
the purposes of the prescribed conditions referred to in
subsection (1)(b) even though the basic wage that would have been
payable to a cleaner under any collective agreement, as defined in
section 2 of the Industrial Relations Act 1960, is lower than that
amount.

 (7) The Director-General may, by written notice to cleaning
business licensees, postpone the effective date specified by an
order under subsection (2)(a) or (b) —

     (a) in relation to cleaners employed (whether or not
          exclusively) to carry out or supervise the carrying out of
          cleaning work under any cleaning contract entered into by
          cleaning business licensees before that effective date; and

     (b) in any case where the Commissioner for Labour varies the
          order — in relation to cleaners employed (whether or not
          exclusively) to carry out or supervise the carrying out of
          cleaning work under any cleaning contract entered into by
          cleaning business licensees before the variation otherwise
          takes effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (10), the Director-General may impose
any other conditions on a cleaning business licence that he or she
thinks fit, being conditions which are not inconsistent with the
prescribed conditions referred to in subsection (1).

 (8A) The Director‑General may, under subsection (8), impose
different conditions for different classes of cleaning business licences
or cleaning business licensees under different circumstances.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), the Director-General may, at any
time, add to, vary or revoke any condition of a cleaning business
licence imposed under subsection (8), except that any addition or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 146

variation must also not be inconsistent with the prescribed conditions
referred to in subsection (1).

 (10) Before imposing any condition under subsection (8) or making
any modification to any condition of a cleaning business licence
under subsection (9), the Director-General must give notice to the
cleaning business licensee concerned —

(a) of the terms of the proposed condition or modification; and

(b) specifying the time (being at least 14 days after the date of
     service of the notice on the cleaning business licensee
     concerned) within which written representations with
     respect to the proposed condition or modification may be
     made.

 (11) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (10)(b), the Director-General must consider the
representation, and may reject the representation or amend the
proposed condition or modification in accordance with the
representation or otherwise, and in either event must then issue a
written direction to the cleaning business licensee concerned,
requiring that effect be given within a reasonable time to the
proposed condition or modification specified in the notice under
subsection (10) or to the condition or modification as subsequently
amended by the Director-General.

 (12) In this section, “Tripartite Cluster for Cleaners” means the
body, comprising the representatives from employers, the trade
unions of employees, and the Government, which is responsible for
making recommendations on progressive wages for cleaners.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

Form and validity of cleaning business licence

 80I.—(1) Every cleaning business licence —

       (a) must be in such form as the Director‑General may
            determine;

       (b) must contain the conditions subject to which it was
            granted; and

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

147  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (c) is valid for the period stated therein unless it is earlier
          revoked under section 80J.

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

     (d) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (1A) Every cleaning business licence (other than a prescribed class
of cleaning business licence) may be renewed upon its expiry.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/01/2024]

 (2) Sections 80F, 80G and 80H apply, with the necessary
modifications, to the renewal and an application for the renewal of
a cleaning business licence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Revocation and suspension of cleaning business licence

 80J.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Director‑General
may by order revoke any cleaning business licence if he or she is
satisfied that —

       (a) the cleaning business licensee has ceased to carry on a
            cleaning business in Singapore;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (b) the cleaning business licensee has gone or is likely to go
            into compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (c) the cleaning business licensee no longer satisfies the
            requirements for a cleaning business licence referred to in
            section 80G(4)(a);

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (d) the cleaning business licensee had, in connection with the
            application for the grant or renewal of its cleaning business
            licence, furnished false or misleading information in a
            material particular, or its cleaning business licence had
            been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (e) a circumstance which the Director‑General becomes aware
            of would have required or permitted the Director‑General
            to refuse to grant or renew the cleaning business licensee’s

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 148

            cleaning business licence, had the Director‑General been
            aware of the circumstance immediately before granting or
            renewing the cleaning business licence;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

        (f) any part of the progressive wage plan in respect of the
            cleaning business licensee’s cleaning business does not
            comply with the prescribed requirements;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (g) the cleaning business licensee has contravened any
            requirement or other provision of this Part or has been
            convicted of an offence under this Part;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (h) the cleaning business licensee has, on or after 1 April 2014,
            contravened any requirement or provision of Part 3 of the
            Employment Act 1968 relating to the payment of salary, or
            has been convicted of an offence under Part 3 of the
            Employment Act 1968 relating to the payment of salary, of
            any of its employees, whether or not cleaners;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

        (i) the cleaning business licensee has failed to comply with
            any notice, direction or order issued under this Part by the
            Director‑General or any authorised officer;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

        (j) the cleaning business licensee has failed to pay any fine for
            any offence under this Part, or any financial penalty, charge
            or fee charged or imposed under this Part;

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

       (k) the cleaning business licensee has failed to comply with
            any condition of its cleaning business licence; or

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

        (l) it is in the public interest to revoke the cleaning business
            licence.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), where the Director‑General considers
that one or more events referred to in subsection (1) have occurred,
but the event or events are not of sufficient gravity to revoke a
cleaning business licence, the Director‑General may by order —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

149  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (a) suspend the cleaning business licence for any period of
          time (not exceeding 6 months) that the Director‑General
          thinks fit; or

       (b) impose any other directions or restrictions that the
            Director‑General considers appropriate on the cleaning
            business licensee’s cleaning business in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (3) The Director‑General must not exercise his or her powers under
subsection (1) or (2) unless an opportunity of being heard (whether in
writing or otherwise) had been given to the cleaning business licensee
against whom the Director‑General intends to exercise his or her
powers, being a period of not less than 3 days but not more than
14 days, after the Director‑General informs the cleaning business
licensee of such intention.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (4) In addition, the Director‑General must not exercise his or her
powers under subsection (1) or (2) in relation to a cleaning business
licensee for failing to comply with the licence condition referred to in
section 80H(1)(b) unless the Director‑General has first consulted the
Commissioner for Labour.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (5) Where the Director‑General has by order revoked a cleaning
business licence under subsection (1) or made any order under
subsection (2) in respect of a cleaning business licence, he or she
must, without delay, serve on the cleaning business licensee
concerned a notice of the order.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (6) Subject to subsections (7) and (8), an order under subsection (1)
or (2) by the Director‑General revoking or suspending a cleaning
business licence or imposing restrictions on the cleaning business
licensee’s cleaning business does not take effect until the expiry of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 150

14 days after the notice under subsection (5) has been served on the
cleaning business licensee.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (7) Any cleaning business licensee or former cleaning business
licensee who is aggrieved by any order of the Director‑General
revoking or suspending its cleaning business licence or imposing
directions or restrictions on its cleaning business may, within 14 days
after the notice under subsection (5) has been served on the cleaning
business licensee or former cleaning business licensee, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (8) Where the cleaning business licensee or former cleaning
business licensee concerned has appealed under subsection (7) to
the Minister against any order of the Director‑General under
subsection (1) or (2), the order does not take effect until it is
confirmed by the Minister or the appeal is for any reason dismissed
by the Minister or withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (9) Where an order of revocation or suspension of a cleaning
business licence becomes effective, the cleaning business licensee or
former cleaning business licensee concerned must cease to carry on
cleaning business in Singapore except to the extent allowed by the
Director‑General.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (10) Subsection (9) does not prejudice the enforcement by any
person of any right or claim against the cleaning business licensee or
former cleaning business licensee concerned or by the cleaning
business licensee or former cleaning business licensee concerned
against any person.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                   Environmental Public Health

151                Act 1987                                   2020 Ed.

Financial penalty

 80K.—(1) Without prejudice to section 80J, where a cleaning
business licensee fails to comply with any condition of its cleaning
business licence including any modification to any condition made by
the Director‑General under section 80H(10), the Director‑General
may, in lieu of or in addition to the revocation or suspension of its
cleaning business licence or imposition of directions or restrictions
on the cleaning business licensee’s cleaning business under
section 80J, impose a financial penalty of an amount, not
exceeding $5,000, that the Director‑General thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (2) The Director‑General must not exercise his or her powers under
subsection (1) in relation to a cleaning business licensee for failing to
comply with the licence condition mentioned in section 80H(1)(b)
unless the Director‑General has first consulted the Commissioner for
Labour.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (3) Any cleaning business licensee or former cleaning business
licensee who is aggrieved by the imposition of any financial penalty
by the Director‑General under subsection (1) may, within 14 days
after the notice of the imposition has been served on the cleaning
business licensee or former cleaning business licensee, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (4) Any financial penalty imposed on any person under this
section —

     (a) must be collected, and may be sued for and recovered, by
          the Agency;

     (b) is deemed to be a debt due to the Government for the
          purposes of section 397 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
          and Dissolution Act 2018 and section 10 of the
          Government Proceedings Act 1956; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 152

          (c) must be paid into the Consolidated Fund upon collection or
              recovery,

and that person’s liability to pay is not affected by its cleaning
business licence ceasing, for any reason, to be in force.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 40/2018]

 (5) The Director‑General may, in any case in which he or she thinks
fit, waive, remit or refund in whole or in part any financial penalty
imposed under this section.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (6) In any proceedings for the recovery of any financial penalty
which any person is liable to pay, a certificate purporting to be under
the hand of the Director‑General certifying the amount of the
financial penalty that is payable by the person is prima facie evidence
of the facts stated therein.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Changes to information submitted

 80L. Every cleaning business licensee must notify the
Director‑General of any change to —

(a) information contained in the cleaning business licensee’s
     application for the grant or renewal of its cleaning business
     licence or any document accompanying the cleaning
     business licensee’s application;

                                                                      [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

(b) particulars of any progressive wage plan submitted by the
     cleaning business licensee under section 80F; or

                                                                      [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          (c) information the cleaning business licensee submitted to the
              Director‑General for the purposes of the cleaning business
              licensee’s application for the grant or renewal of its
              cleaning business licence,

                                                                                [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

no later than 14 days after the date of the change.

                                                                   [15/2014]

                                  [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                   Environmental Public Health

153                Act 1987                                   2020 Ed.

Monitoring powers

 80M.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Director‑General or any
authorised officer appointed under section 3(2) may, for the purposes
of the execution of this Part, by written notice —

     (a) require a cleaning business licensee to produce such
          records, accounts and documents kept by the cleaning
          business licensee in relation to —

     (i) the cleaning business licensee’s cleaning business; or

     (ii) the payment of remuneration to the cleaning business
          licensee’s cleaners,

     (a) within such reasonable time as may be specified in the
          notice;

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

     (b) inspect, examine and make copies of any such records,
          accounts and documents so produced; and

       (c) make any inquiry that may be necessary to ascertain
            whether the provisions of this Part are complied with.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Where the Director‑General or any authorised officer appointed
under section 3(2) has received information or has reasonable cause
to believe that an offence under this Part or a failure to comply with
any condition of a cleaning business licence has occurred, or is
occurring or about to occur, the Director‑General or authorised
officer may exercise all or any of the powers referred to in
subsection (1) without having to issue any notice in writing.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (3) Where the records, accounts and documents mentioned in
subsection (1) are kept in electronic form —

     (a) the power of the Director‑General or authorised officer in
          subsection (1)(a) to require any such records, accounts or
          documents to be produced for inspection includes power to
          require a copy of the records, accounts or documents to be
          made available for inspection in legible form and
          subsection (1)(b) applies accordingly in relation to any
          copy so made available; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 154

       (b) the power of the Director‑General or authorised officer
            under subsection (1)(b) to inspect any such records,
            accounts or documents includes power to require the
            cleaning business licensee or the person who produced the
            records, accounts or documents on behalf of the cleaning
            business licensee or (where the records, accounts or
            documents are kept at any premises) any person on those
            premises to give the Director‑General or authorised officer
            any assistance that the Director‑General or authorised
            officer may reasonably require to enable him or her to
            inspect and make copies of the records, accounts or
            documents in legible form or to make records of
            information contained in them.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (4) Any person who fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply
with any requirement imposed under this section shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Register of cleaning business licensees

 80N.—(1) The Director-General must keep and maintain a register
in which must be entered such particulars of the cleaning business
licensees as the Director‑General may determine.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (2) Where the cleaning business licence of any cleaning business
licensee has been suspended or revoked or has expired, the
Director‑General may —

       (a) remove the particulars of the cleaning business licensee
            from the register; or

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

155  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) indicate against the particulars of the cleaning business
          licensee in the register the fact of the suspension,
          revocation or expiry of the licence, as the case may be.

                                                                                                      [15/2014]

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                                                           [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                   PART 10

                              ENFORCEMENT

Power to enter upon lands for purposes of Act

 81.—(1) The Director-General or any authorised officer may, for
the purposes of this Act, enter between the hours of 6 a.m. and 6 p.m.
into and upon any premises in order to make any survey, inspection or
search or to execute any work authorised by this Act without being
liable to any legal proceedings or molestation on account of that entry
or of anything done in any part of those premises.

 (2) A person must not, except with the consent of the occupier of
the house, enter any house by virtue of the powers conferred by
subsection (1) without at least 3 hours previous notice being given to
the occupier of the house, if any.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), where it is necessary and expedient to
make any survey, inspection or search or to execute any work
authorised by this Act outside the hours specified in subsection (1),
the Director‑General or any authorised officer may enter any
premises by giving at least 6 hours previous notice to the owner or
occupier of the premises.

Penalty for obstruction

 82.—(1) A person must not at any time —

       (a) hinder, obstruct or delay the Director‑General, any
            authorised officer or other person in the performance and
            execution of his or her duty or of anything which he or she
            is respectively empowered, employed or required to do by
            virtue or in consequence of or under this Act; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 156

       (b) remove any mark, line, sign or other direction drawn or set
            up for the purpose of this Act.

                                                                                                [48/2018; 11/2019]

 (2) However, it is not an offence under subsection (1) for any
person to refuse to comply with any request, demand or order made or
given by any authorised officer (including an authorised officer
within the meaning of section 31W) who fails to declare his or her
office and refuses to produce his or her identification card on demand
being made by that person.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (3) In subsection (2), “identification card”, for an authorised officer
(including an authorised officer within the meaning of section 31W),
means such identification card as the Director‑General or the
Director‑General, Food Administration may require the authorised
officer to carry at all times when exercising powers under this Act.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

Director-General or Director-General, Food Administration
may act in cases of emergency

 83.—(1) In cases of emergency, the Director‑General or
Director‑General, Food Administration may direct the immediate
execution of any work or the doing of any act being any work or act
authorised under this Act which is in the opinion of the
Director‑General or Director‑General, Food Administration (as the
case may be) necessary for public health or for the safety of the
public.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General or Director‑General, Food
Administration may recover, from the owner or occupier of the
premises in which any work or act mentioned in subsection (1) is
executed, the costs and expenses reasonably incurred in the execution
of the work or act.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 11/2019]

Appeal to Minister against notice, order or decision

 84.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by any notice, order or
decision of the Director‑General may within 7 days of the notice,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

157  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

order or decision appeal in writing to the Minister whereupon the
execution of the notice, order or decision must be stayed.

 (2) The Minister may confirm, vary or rescind the notice or order or
direct that the thing must be proceeded with, varied or abandoned (as
the case may be) or make any order which the Director‑General is
competent to make and the decision of the Minister is final.

Appeal against decisions under Part 4

 84A.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by any notice, order or
decision of the Director‑General, Food Administration made under
Part 4 or 9 may, within 7 days after the person receives the notice,
order or decision, appeal in writing to the Minister charged with the
responsibility for food safety.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) After considering an appeal made under this section, the
Minister charged with the responsibility for food safety may —

     (a) reject the appeal and confirm the notice, order or decision
          (as the case may be) of the Director‑General, Food
          Administration;

     (b) allow the appeal and rescind the notice, order or decision
          (as the case may be) of the Director‑General, Food
          Administration; or

     (c) substitute or vary the notice, order or decision appealed
         against and make any notice, order or decision which the
         Director‑General, Food Administration is competent to
         make under Part 4 or 9, as the case may be.

                                                                                                      [11/2019]

(3) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

                                                              [11/2019]

 (4) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (2).

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (5) Where an appeal is lodged by a person under this section against
any notice, order or decision of the Director‑General, Food
Administration made under Part 4 or 9, the execution of the notice,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 158

order or decision appealed against must be stayed until the outcome
of the appeal.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

Default in compliance with notice

 85.—(1) When any notice or order under this Act requires any act
to be done or work to be executed by the owner or occupier or the
person in charge of any premises and default is made in complying
with the requirements of the notice or order, the person in default
shall, where no fine is specially provided for the default, be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

 (2) When the notice or order requires any act to be done or work to
be executed for which no time is fixed by this Act, it must fix a
reasonable time for complying with the requirements.

 (3) Where any person who has been served with any notice or order
fails to comply therewith, the Director‑General may, without
affecting any proceedings under subsection (1), at the expiry of the
period specified in the notice or order execute the works as are
specified in the notice or order and may recover from that person the
expenses reasonably incurred in so doing in the manner provided in
section 89.

 (4) Nothing in this section is deemed to prohibit the
Director‑General from carrying out any works specified in the
notice or order at the request of a person who has been served with the
notice or order upon an undertaking by that person to pay the costs
and expenses in executing the works.

Authorised officers may demand names and addresses in
certain cases

 86.—(1) Any person who is charged by any police officer or
authorised officer with any offence under this Act must on demand
give his or her name and address and other proof of identity to the
police officer or authorised officer, if so required.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

159  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The occupier of any premises must, if required by any police
officer or authorised officer, give his or her name and other proof of
identity and the name and address of the owner of the premises, if
known.

 (3) Any person who contravenes this section or wilfully misstates
his or her name and address or the name and address of the owner of
any premises shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

Power of investigating offences

 87.—(1) For the purpose of investigating any offence under this
Act, the Director‑General or the Director‑General, Food
Administration (as the case may be) or any authorised officer
(including an authorised officer within the meaning of section 31W)
may —

       (a) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with
            the facts and circumstances of the case, and to reduce to
            writing any statement made by the person so examined;
            and

       (b) require by written order the attendance before himself or
            herself of any person who, from information given or
            otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the facts and
            circumstances concerning the case and that person must
            attend as so required.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which he or she is acquainted
concerning the case except only that he or she may decline to make
with regard to any fact or circumstance a statement which would have
a tendency to expose him or her to a criminal charge or to penalty or
forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made under this section by any person must be read
over to the person and must, after correction (if necessary), be signed
by him or her.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 160

 (4) If any person fails to attend as required by an order under
subsection (1)(b), the Director‑General, the Director‑General, Food
Administration or the authorised officer (including an authorised
officer within the meaning of section 31W) may report the failure to a
Magistrate who may then issue a warrant to secure the attendance of
that person as required by the order.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General, the Director‑General, Food
Administration (as the case may be) or any authorised officer
(including an authorised officer within the meaning of section 31W)
may photograph (which includes making a digital image or a moving
visual record) or otherwise record —

(a) any place or vehicle where an offence under this Act was
     committed, is reasonably suspected to have been
     committed, or is about to be committed;

(b) any place or vehicle associated with, or relevant to, the
     commission or suspected commission of the offence under
     this Act; or

          (c) any thing or individual in a place or vehicle mentioned in
              paragraph (a) or (b).

                                                                                                           [11/2019]

Powers of arrest

 88.—(1) Any police officer or authorised officer may arrest any
person committing in his or her view or who he or she has reason to
believe has committed any offence punishable under this Act if —

       (a) the name and address of the person are unknown to him or
            her;

       (b) the person declines to give the person’s name and address;
            or

       (c) there is reason to doubt the accuracy of the name and
            address, if given.

 (2) A person arrested under this section may be detained until the
person’s name and address are correctly ascertained.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

161  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) No person arrested under this section may be detained longer
than is necessary for bringing the person before a court unless the
order of a court for the person’s detention is obtained.

False or misleading information

 88A. A person shall be guilty of an offence if —

       (a) the person provides information to a police officer, the
            Director‑General, the Director‑General, Food
            Administration or any authorised officer (including an
            authorised officer within the meaning of section 31W) in
            connection with any of his or her functions or duties under
            this Act;

       (b) the information is false or misleading in a material
            particular; and

       (c) the person knew that that information is false or misleading
            in a material particular or is reckless as to whether it is so.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 11/2019]

                                    PART 11

COMPENSATION, DAMAGES, FEES, COSTS AND EXPENSES

Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
determined by Magistrate’s Court or District Court

 89.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, in all cases when
compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses are by this Act
directed to be paid, the amount and (if necessary) the apportionment
of the same and any question of liability is, in case of dispute or
failure to pay, to be summarily ascertained and determined by a
Magistrate’s Court or, if the amount exceeds $10,000, by a District
Court.

 (2) If the amount of compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses
is not paid by the party liable to pay the same within 14 days after
demand, that amount may be reported to a Magistrate’s Court and
recovered in the same manner as if it were a fine imposed by a
Magistrate’s Court.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 162

 (3) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court from
any decision of a Magistrate’s Court or District Court under this
section, and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, to the appeal.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Damage to property of Agency and Singapore Food Agency to
be made good in addition to penalty

 90.—(1) If through any act, neglect or default (on account whereof
any person has incurred any penalty under this Act) any damage to
Agency property or property of the Singapore Food Agency (as the
case may be) is committed by that person, that person shall be liable
to make good the damage as well as to pay the penalty.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (2) The amount of the damage is, in case of dispute, to be
determined by the court by which the person incurring the penalty
was convicted.

 (3) The amount of the damage is to be recovered as if it were a fine
imposed by the court.

Payment of fees, etc.

 91.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), section 31N and regulations
made under section 42A, all fees, charges and moneys collected
under this Act are payable to the Agency.

                                                                                    [16/2016; 48/2018; 11/2019]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

 (2) Any fee, charge or money collected under this Act may be paid
to a person other than the Agency where the Agency has, with the
approval of the Minister, made regulations under section 111
providing for that fee, charge or money to be payable to that
person instead.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (3) This section does not apply to composition sums in section 104
or financial penalties imposed under section 80K or 99.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

163  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

Recovery of costs and expenses payable by owners

 92.—(1) If any sum payable by or recoverable from the owner or
occupier in respect of costs and expenses incurred by the Agency in
the execution of any work which is, under this Act, recoverable from
the owner or occupier of any premises is not paid by the owner or
occupier within 14 days after demand that sum may be reported to a
Magistrate’s Court or District Court and recovered in the same
manner as if it were a fine imposed by a Magistrate’s Court or District
Court, as the case may be.

 (2) The person liable to pay any sum under subsection (1) is the
owner at the time when the work was completed.

 (3) Any occupier who, when requested by or on behalf of the
Director‑General to state the name of the owner of the premises,
refuses or wilfully omits to disclose or wilfully misstates the name of
the owner shall, unless he or she shows cause to the satisfaction of the
Magistrate’s Court or the District Court for his or her refusal or
misstatement, be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $500.

Recovery of costs and expenses by instalments

 93.—(1) When the Director‑General has incurred costs and
expenses in or about the execution of any work, which are, under
this Act, payable by or recoverable from the owner or occupier, the
Director‑General may —

       (a) recover the costs and expenses in the manner provided in
            this Act; or

       (b) if he or she thinks fit, obtain an undertaking from the owner
            or occupier for the payment by any instalments that will be
            sufficient to defray the whole amount of the costs and
            expenses.

 (2) Upon default in payment of any instalment upon the date
appointed for payment of the instalment by the undertaking, the
whole of the balance then outstanding of the amount immediately
becomes due and payable and, despite any change in the ownership or
occupation of the premises since the date of the undertaking, may be

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 164

recovered by the same means and in the like manner as provided in
section 92.

Liability of transferor of property in respect of costs and
expenses incurred by Director-General

 94.—(1) Where a person sells or transfers any property in respect of
which costs and expenses have been incurred by the Director‑General
in or about the execution of any work required to be done under this
Act and the costs and expenses are recoverable under this Act from
the owner of that property, that person continues to be liable for the
payment of all the costs and expenses payable in respect of the
property and for the performance of all other obligations imposed by
this Act upon the owner of the property which became payable or
were required to be performed prior to the transfer.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the liability of the purchaser or
transferee to pay the costs and expenses in respect of the property or
the right of the Director‑General to recover the costs and expenses or
to perform any obligations under this Act.

Limitation of liability to fines and penalties

 95. Except in any case where by reason of the act or omission
complained of, an injury or danger to health subsists at the date of the
complaint, no person shall be liable to any fine or penalty under this
Act for any offence under this Act unless the complaint respecting the
offence is made within 3 years after the date of the commission of
such offence.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

                                   PART 12

                   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Protection from personal liability

 96.—(1) No matter or thing done and no contract of any kind
entered into by the Agency or the Director‑General and no matter or
thing done by any authorised officer or any other person employed in
the administration of this Act or acting under the direction of the
Agency, the Director‑General or authorised officer shall, if the matter

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

165  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

or thing was done or the contract was entered into bona fide for the
purpose of executing the provisions of this Act, subject them or any of
them personally to any action, liability, claim or demand.

 (2) Any expense incurred by those persons acting in accordance
with subsection (1) must be borne by the Agency.

Exemption of agent who has no funds in hand

 97.—(1) No person (A) receiving the rent of premises as receiver or
agent for another person is liable to do anything by this Act required
to be done by the owner of the premises if, after A or the actual owner
has been required to do any work, A gives notice to the
Director‑General within 7 days after the requisition has been made,
that A does not have sufficient funds of the person on whose behalf
A is receiving the rents to pay for the work.

 (2) In that case, the Director‑General may himself or herself
execute the work and the expenses incurred thereby must be charged
and recoverable as provided in section 92.

Service of summons, notice, etc.

 98.—(1) Every summons, notice, order or document required or
authorised by this Act to be served on any person may be served by —

       (a) delivering it to the person or by delivering it at the person’s
            last known place of residence to some adult member or
            employee of the person’s family;

       (b) leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in a cover addressed to the person; or

       (c) forwarding it by post in a prepaid letter addressed to the
            person at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business.

 (2) When any summons, notice, order or document is to be served
on any incorporated company or body, it may be served by —

       (a) delivering it to the secretary or other like officer of the
            company or body; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 166

       (b) sending it by registered post addressed to the company or
            body at its registered or principal office.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (3) In addition, any notice, order or document (other than a notice,
order or document to be served in proceedings in court) required or
authorised by this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a
body corporate or an unincorporated association may be served by
sending it by fax to whichever of the following is applicable:

(a) the fax number last known as the fax number for the
     service of notices, orders or documents on the individual;

(b) the fax number used at the partnership’s business address;

       (c) the fax number used at the body corporate’s or
            unincorporated association’s registered office or principal
            office in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (4) A summons, notice, order or document required or authorised
by this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises may
be served by delivering it or a true copy thereof to some adult person
on the premises or, if there is no such person on the premises to whom
it can with reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing the
summons, notice, order or document to some conspicuous part of
the premises.

 (5) Any summons, notice, order or document required or authorised
by this Act to be served on the owner or occupier of any premises is
deemed to be properly addressed if addressed by the description of
the owner or occupier of the premises without further name or
description.

 (6) Service of any notice, order or document (other than a notice,
order or document to be served in proceedings in court) takes
effect —

(a) if the notice, order or document is sent by prepaid
     registered post, on the second day after the day the
     notice, order or document was posted (even if it is returned
     undelivered); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

167  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

       (b) if the notice, order or document is sent by fax and a
            notification of successful transmission is received, on the
            day of the transmission.

                                                                                                           [48/2018]

 (7) In this section, “business address” or “place of business”
means —

     (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or last
          known place of business in Singapore; and

     (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited liability
          partnership), the partnership’s principal or last known
          place of business in Singapore.

                                                                                                      [48/2018]

Licences

 99.—(1) Any licence under this Act may be —

       (a) granted or renewed at the discretion of the
            Director‑General;

       (b) granted, renewed or refused without any reason for the
            grant, renewal or refusal being given therefor; and

       (c) granted or renewed subject to any restrictions and
            conditions that the Director‑General may think fit.

 (2) The Director‑General may require any applicant for a licence to
furnish any information and evidence that he or she may reasonably
require for a full and proper consideration of the application.

 (3) If the applicant refuses to furnish the information under
subsection (2), the Director‑General must refuse to grant or renew
the licence.

 (4) The Director‑General may, before granting or renewing any
licence, require the applicant to give security, either in the form of a
cash deposit or by entering into a bond, that the provisions of this Act
and of the conditions of the licence will be duly observed.

 (5) Where an applicant is required to enter into a bond, the
Director‑General may require not more than 2 sureties to enter into
the bond with the applicant.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 168

 (6) Any sum deposited or bond entered into under this section is
liable to forfeiture in whole or in part at the discretion of the
Director‑General on cancellation of the licence.

 (7) Any person who wilfully furnishes any false information in any
application for a licence shall be guilty of an offence and any licence
granted is void and of no effect.

 (8) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any licence may be for
such period as the Director‑General thinks fit.

 (9) There must be charged for the grant or renewal of any licence
any fee that may be prescribed by the Agency with the approval of the
Minister.

 (10) Where a licence is granted for a period of less than 12 months,
the Director‑General may charge a proportionate fee therefor; and in
charging the proportionate fee, any part of a month is reckoned as one
month.

 (11) No licensee is entitled to any refund of any fee paid by the
licensee in respect of any licence.

 (12) A person must not in any manner transfer any licence or permit
any licence to be used by any other person without the approval in
writing of the Director‑General.

 (13) Subject to subsection (14), it is lawful for the Director-General
to modify the conditions of a licence without compensating the
licensee concerned, except that any such modification must not be
inconsistent with —

(a) where the licensee is a waste disposal licensee — any
     prescribed condition referred to in section 23A(1) or (2); or

       (b) where the licensee is a waste collector licensee — any
            prescribed condition referred to in section 31AA(1) or (2).

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (14) Before modifying any conditions of a licence, the
Director‑General must give notice to the licensee holding that
licence —

(a) stating that the Director‑General proposes to make the
     modification in the manner specified in the notice; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

169                         Act 1987                          2020 Ed.

      (b) specifying the time (being not less than a prescribed period
           after the date of service of notice on the licensee) within
           which the licensee may make written representations to the
           Director‑General with respect to the proposed
           modification.

                                                                                                         [11/2019]

(15) Subject to sections 23A(3) and 31AA(3), where a licensee —

     (a) is in breach of any restriction or condition subject to which
          the licence was granted; or

     (b) has contravened any provision of this Act,

the Director-General may —

     (c) suspend or cancel the licence; and

       (d) in the case of paragraph (a), in lieu of or in addition to
            paragraph (c), impose a financial penalty of any amount,
            not exceeding $5,000, unless the breach in paragraph (a) is
            an offence under this Act.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (16) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any person who is
aggrieved by —

     (a) the refusal by the Director‑General to grant or renew any
          licence;

     (b) the decision of the Director‑General to modify the
          conditions of a licence under subsection (13);

     (c) the suspension or cancellation by the Director‑General of
         any licence;

     (d) the imposition of any financial penalty by the
          Director‑General; or

     (e) the forfeiture of any sum deposited or bond entered into
         under this section,

may, within 14 days of the refusal, suspension, cancellation,
imposition of financial penalty or forfeiture, appeal to the Minister
whose decision is final.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 170

 (17) Any financial penalty imposed on any person under this
section is to be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [16/2016]

 (18) The provisions of this section affecting any licence or permit
apply (so far as relevant) to any licence or permit granted or renewed
under Parts 4 and 9 by the Director‑General, Food Administration —

(a) as if the licence or permit were granted or renewed under
     any other Parts of this Act pursuant to an application to the
     Director‑General;

(b) as if the reference to the Director‑General in this section
     were a reference to the Director‑General, Food
     Administration;

          (c) as if the reference to the Agency in this section were a
              reference to the Singapore Food Agency;

(d) as if the reference to the Minister in this section were a
     reference to the Minister charged with the responsibility
     for food safety; and

       (e) with any other exceptions, modifications and adaptations
            that the differences between Parts 4 and 9 and other Parts
            require.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

 (19) In this section, “licence” includes any approval, permit,
permission, authority, authorisation or licence which may be
granted or renewed under this Act, but does not include a
certificate issued by the Director-General under Part 5A or a
cleaning business licence granted or renewed under Part 9A.

                                                                                                [15/2014; 11/2019]

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Codes of practice and standards of performance

 99A.—(1) The Director-General may issue, approve, amend or
revoke one or more codes of practice or standards of performance
with respect to —

       (a) programmes and measures relating to environmental
            sanitation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

171  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (b) activities and conduct of licensees and registered persons
          under this Act;

     (c) activities that relate to or concern environmental public
         health;

     (d) the cleaning, disinfection and operation of any class of
          premises, facilities or systems under this Act;

     (e) the operation of any provision of this Act; or

        (f) generally for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (2) If any provision in any code of practice or standard of
performance is inconsistent with this Act, such provision (to the
extent of the inconsistency) does not have effect.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (3) Where a code of practice or standard of performance is issued,
approved, amended or revoked by the Director‑General under
subsection (1), the Director‑General must —

     (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
          revocation (as the case may be) in such manner as will
          secure adequate publicity for such issue, approval,
          amendment or revocation;

     (b) specify in the notice the date of the issue, approval,
          amendment or revocation, as the case may be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice or standard of
            performance remains in force, copies of that code or
            standard, and of all amendments to that code or standard,
            are available free of charge to any person to which that
            code or standard applies.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (4) None of the following has any effect until the notice relating to
it is published in accordance with subsection (3):

     (a) a code of practice or standard of performance;

     (b) an amendment to a code of practice or standard of
          performance;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 172

       (c) the revocation of a code of practice or standard of
            performance.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (5) A code of practice or standard of performance has no legislative
effect.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (6) Subject to subsections (4) and (7), a person must comply with
any code of practice or standard of performance that is applicable to
that person.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

 (7) The Director-General may, either generally or for such time as
the Director‑General may specify, waive the application to any
person of any code of practice or standard of performance, or of any
part of any code of practice or standard of performance.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

Receipts, notices, etc., may be given by authorised officer

 100.—(1) All notices, orders, receipts, warrants and other
documents which the Director‑General is empowered to give by
this Act may be given by any authorised officer.

 (2) Where any such notice, order, receipt, warrant or document
requires authentication, the signature or a facsimile thereof of the
Director‑General or any authorised officer affixed thereto is
sufficient authentication.

Furnishing of information required by Director‑General

 101. The Director‑General may, by written notice, require the
owner or occupier of any work place or work premises to furnish the
Director‑General within 14 days or a longer period that may be
specified in the notice any information required by the
Director‑General for the purposes of this Act.

Saving of prosecutions under other laws

 102. Nothing in this Act prevents any person from being prosecuted
under any other written law for any act or omission which constitutes
an offence under this Act or from being liable under that other written
law to any other or higher punishment or penalty than that provided

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

173  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

by this Act except that no person may be punished twice for the same
offence.

General penalties

 103. Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of this Act
shall be guilty of an offence and, where no penalty is expressly
provided, shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000
and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 103A.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the body corporate; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with his or her functions of management as if
he or she were a director of the body corporate.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.     Act 1987                                              174

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
     officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (5) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership which
   has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
   Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

          (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
               than a partnership), means the president, the
               secretary, or any member of the committee of the
               unincorporated association, or any person holding a
               position analogous to that of president, secretary or
               member of a committee and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (6) The Minister may make regulations to provide for the
application of any provision of this section, with any modifications
that the Minister considers appropriate, to any body corporate or
unincorporated association formed or recognised under the law of a
territory outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Environmental Public Health

175                      Act 1987                             2020 Ed.

Composition of offences

 104.—(1) The Director-General may compound any offence under
this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding the lower of the following:

     (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
          prescribed for the offence;

     (b) $5,000.

                                                              [15/2014]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings may
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make rules
to prescribe the offences which may be compounded and the method
and procedure by which those offences may be compounded under
this section.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

Inaccuracies in documents

 105.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, street or place named or described in any
document prepared, issued or served under or for the purposes of
this Act affects in any way the operation of this Act as respects that
person or place if that person or place is so designated in the
document as to be identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under this Act are invalid for want of
form.

Jurisdiction of court

 106. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court
have jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 176

Evidence

 107.—(1) The contents of any document prepared, issued or served
under or for the purposes of this Act are, until the contrary is proved,
presumed to be correct and the production of any book purporting to
contain any apportionment made under this Act shall, without any
other evidence, be received as prima facie proof of the making and
validity of the apportionment mentioned therein.

 (2) All records, registers and other documents kept by the
Director‑General or by any public officer for the purposes of this
Act are deemed to be public documents, and copies thereof or extracts
therefrom certified by the officer responsible for the custody thereof
to be true copies or extracts (as the case may be) and subscribed by
the officer with his or her name and his or her official title are
admissible in evidence as proof of the contents of the documents or
extracts therefrom.

Forms

 108. The Director-General may design and utilise any forms that he
or she may think fit for any of the purposes of this Act, and may
require any person to complete any of the forms for any such purpose.

Modification of provisions

 108A. Sections 82, 85(3) and (4), 93(1), 94(1) and (2), 96, 97, 100,
101, 107 and 108 apply (so far as relevant) to anything done or
required to be done under Parts 4 and 9 by the Director‑General, Food
Administration —

       (a) as if the reference in those provisions to the
            Director‑General includes a reference to the
            Director‑General, Food Administration;

       (b) as if the reference in those provisions to the Agency were a
            reference to the Singapore Food Agency;

       (c) as if the reference in those provisions to an authorised
            officer includes a reference to an authorised officer within
            the meaning of section 31W; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

177  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

     (d) with any other exceptions, modifications and adaptations
          that the differences between Part 4 and other Parts require.

                                                                                                      [11/2019]

                                                                           [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

Amendment of Schedules

 109. The Minister may, from time to time, by notification in the
Gazette, add to, alter or amend any of the Schedules.

Exemption

 110.—(1) The Agency may, subject to the general or special
directions of the Minister, either permanently or for such period as the
Agency thinks fit, exempt any person, facility, system, premises or
works, or any class of persons, facilities, systems, premises or works
from any of the provisions of this Act, except Part 4.

                                                                                                [11/2019; 33/2020]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

 (2) The Singapore Food Agency may, subject to the general or
special directions of the Minister charged with the responsibility for
food safety, either permanently or for such period as the Singapore
Food Agency thinks fit, exempt any person or premises or any class
of persons or premises from any of the provisions of Part 4.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

Regulations

 111.—(1) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for or in respect of every purpose which the Minister
considers necessary for carrying out the provisions of this Act, and in
particular, without limiting the foregoing, for or in respect of all or
any of the matters specified in the Third Schedule.

 (1A) Regulations made under this section may make different
provision for different classes, descriptions or types of persons,
facilities, systems, premises or works.

                                                                                                           [33/2020]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 178

(1B) Regulations made under this section may provide for —

(a) different prescribed components referred to in paragraphs
     (b) and (c) of the definition of “progressive wage model
     bonus” in section 2, in respect of cleaners, waste collection
     workers and waste disposal workers, respectively; and

       (b) different prescribed conditions referred to in
            sections 23A(1) and (2), 31AA(1) and (2) and 80H(1)
            for different classes of waste disposal licences, waste
            collector licences and cleaning business licences,
            respectively.

                                                                                 [Act 5 of 2023 wef 01/07/2023]

 (2) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, prescribe the circumstances in which it is presumed
that an offence under the provisions of any such regulations was
committed.

 (3) The Agency may, with the approval of the Minister, in making
any regulations, provide that any contravention of, or failure or
neglect to comply with any regulations shall be an offence and may
prescribe the fine with which the offence shall be punishable, but so
that no such fine shall exceed for any one offence the sum of $20,000
and, in the case of a continuing offence, the sum of $1,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [15/2014]

 (4) All regulations made under this Act (except section 42A) must
be published in the Gazette and must be presented to Parliament as
soon as possible after publication.

                                                                                                            [11/2019]

                                                                                 [Act 7 of 2025 wef 28/11/2025]

Validation of collection of fee or charge for late payment of fee
or charge

 111A. Every amount collected before the date of commencement of
the Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008 as, or
purportedly as, a fee or charge for the late payment of any fee or
charge under this Act shall be deemed to be and always to have been
validly collected, and no legal proceedings shall lie or be instituted or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

179  Act 1987                                                 2020 Ed.

maintained in any court of law on account of or in respect of any such
collection.

                                                                                 [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                               Sections 32 and 109

               DESCRIPTION OF PURPOSES FOR USE OF FOOD
            ESTABLISHMENTS TO WHICH SECTION 32 APPLIES

 1. As a retail food establishment where food is sold wholly by retail (whether or
not the food sold is also prepared, stored or packed for sale or consumed at such
premises), including —

        (a) an eating establishment, such as a restaurant;

        (b) a cut fruit shop;

        (c) a supermarket;

        (d) a market-produce shop (including any premises used for the sale of fish
             or crustacean, or meat or vegetable);

        (e) a barbecue meat shop,

except a retail food establishment that is part of a non-retail food business within
the meaning of the Sale of Food Act 1973.

 2. As a catering establishment providing a catering service whereby —

        (a) food is prepared, packed and thereafter delivered to a consumer for his
             or her consumption or use; or

        (b) food is prepared at premises appointed by a consumer for his or her
             consumption or use,

except a catering establishment that is part of a non‑retail food business within the
meaning of the Sale of Food Act 1973.

                                                                                                           [48/2017]

     SECOND SCHEDULE

     [Repealed by Act 48 of 2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.  Act 1987                                                 180

          THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                          Sections 109 and 111(1)

                      SUBJECT MATTERS OF REGULATIONS

 1. Public cleansing, conservancy and the depositing, collection, removal and
disposal of dust, dirt, ashes, rubbish, nightsoil, dung, trade refuse, garden refuse,
stable refuse, trade effluent and other filth; and matters relating to the receptacles
used or provided in connection therewith.

 1A. The control, regulation and supervision of —

        (a) the establishment, operation and maintenance of a DPWCS; and

        (b) the conveyance or transportation of refuse and waste through a
             DPWCS.

 1B. The duties of owners and occupiers of premises in connection with the use,
operation and maintenance of a DPWCS.

 1C. The specifications, dimensions and other standards to which the related
internal assets must conform.

 1D. The control, regulation and restriction of the types of refuse and waste that
may be disposed of through a DPWCS.

 1E. The conditions under which refuse and waste may be disposed of through a
DPWCS.

 2. [Deleted by Act 11 of 2019]

 3. The control, regulation and supervision of places used for the reception of
sick or dying persons.

 4. The prevention and abatement of nuisances.

 4A. The prescribing of matters relating to the plans of controlled works to be
lodged or certified under Part 5A, including a requirement for the plans to be
prepared by persons with prescribed qualifications and expertise.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 4B. The prescribing of standards and codes of practice for the purposes of Part
5A, including by applying, adopting or incorporating by reference —

        (a) either wholly or partially;

        (b) with or without modification; or

        (c) either specifically or by reference,

any matter contained in any standards or codes of practice, as in force or published
at a particular time or as in force or published from time to time, relating to the
prevention, reduction or control of the spread of any infectious disease in or from,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Environmental Public Health

181                          Act 1987                           2020 Ed.

     THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

or the reduction or removal of any risk of conditions injurious or dangerous to
public health being created in, completed buildings or controlled facilities.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 4C. The prescribing of matters necessary for the carrying out of section 46D,
including requiring controlled works exempt from section 46C under regulations
made under section 46D to be carried out in accordance with prescribed
requirements.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 4D. The prescribing of fees and charges for applications, lodgments and
submission of documents for the purposes of Part 5A.

                                                                               [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

 5. The keeping down or destruction of rats, mice, insects and other vermin, and
the proofing of premises against the same.

 6. [Deleted by Act 11 of 2019]

 7. [Deleted by Act 11 of 2019]

 8. [Deleted by Act 11 of 2019]

 9. The inspection, regulation, supervision, control, management, maintenance,
operation and use of cemeteries and crematoria, the dimensions of graves and
places of interment, the prescribing of conditions under which human remains
may be disposed of, registers to be kept and generally all matters connected with
the good order of cemeteries and crematoria, due regard being had to the religious
usages of the several classes of the community.

10. The provision and maintenance of sanitary conveniences.

 11. The collection, transportation, storage, labelling and disposal of industrial
waste and toxic industrial waste.

 12. The prescribing of forms for licences and notices and for other purposes of
this Act.

 13. The prescribing of a code of practice relating to the control and regulation of
noise levels in work places and construction sites.

14. The prescribing of —

     (a) fees for licences;

     (b) fees and charges for any of the purposes of this Act;

     (c) fees and charges for the late payment of any fee or charge referred to in
         sub‑paragraph (a) or (b); and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.                  Act 1987                                 182

          THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

       (d) any other matter which by this Act is required to be or may be
            prescribed.

                                                                               [Act 4 of 2008 wef 01/04/2024]

15. The prohibition and control of the burning of joss sticks and candles.

 16. The prescribing of matters relating to or for the purposes of cleaning
business licences and the regulation of cleaning businesses.

 17. The registration and regulation of Environmental Control Coordinators and
Environmental Control Officers, including their duties and matters relating to their
appointment, training and qualifications.

 18. The requirements relating to environmental sanitation programmes for
specified premises.

 19. The duties of managers of specified premises in connection with
environmental sanitation, including the periodic cleaning of the specified
premises.

 20. The regulation of licensable aquatic facilities, including the duties of owners
or occupiers of premises in or on which licensable aquatic facilities are located.

 21. The regulation of registrable aerosol‑generating systems, including the
duties of owners or occupiers of premises in or on which registrable
aerosol‑generating systems are installed.

                                                                        [15/2014; 48/2018; 11/2019; 33/2020]

                          FOURTH SCHEDULE

                                                                                       Sections 4(2) and 109

          PRIVATE PERSONS WHO CAN BE AUTHORISED TO
             EXERCISE POWERS UNDER THIS ACT OR ITS
             REGULATIONS AND POWERS IN RESPECT OF
                          WHICH PERSONS MAY ACT

          First column               .              Second column
                                           Powers under this Act and its
    Private persons who may be          regulations which the person may be
authorised to exercise powers under
this Act and regulations made under             authorised to exercise

                 this Act               Powers of an authorised officer
                                        under —
(1) Any member or employee of a )
                                               (a) section 21; and
Town Council established             )

under the Town Councils              )

Act 1988                             )

                                     )

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      Environmental Public Health

183                           Act 1987                             2020 Ed.

                      FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

     First column                    .                    Second column

    Private persons who may be                   Powers under this Act and its
authorised to exercise powers under           regulations which the person may be
this Act and regulations made under
                                                      authorised to exercise
                 this Act

(2) Any member of any committee )             (b) sections 86 and 88 in

     of a Town Council               )        relation to any offence

                                     )        under section 17 and

(3) Any employee of an agent of a )           regulation 30 of the

     Town Council                    )        Environmental Public

                                              Health               (Public

(4) Any operator of a public         )        Cleansing) Regulations

     service vehicle                 )        for          contravening

                                              regulation 15(1) of those

                                              Regulations

(5) Any —                            )        Powers of an authorised officer
                                              under —
     (a) member or employee of a )
          society registered under )          (a) section 21; and
          the Societies Act 1966; )
                                           )  (b) sections 86 and 88 in
                                                   relation to any offence
     (b) member, director or         )             under section 17.

     employee of a public )

     company limited by              )

     guarantee registered            )

     under the Companies )

     Act 1967; or                    )

     (c) member of a council )

     established by the              )

     Ministry of Sustainability )

     and the Environment, )

                                     )

     whose objects or activities )

     relate to environmental public )

     health, environmental           )

     protection, living environment )

     improvement or matters          )

     connected therewith             )

                                     )

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Environmental Public Health

2020 Ed.                  Act 1987                                      184

          FOURTH SCHEDULE — continued

          First column               .  Second column

    Private persons who may be             Powers under this Act and its
authorised to exercise powers under     regulations which the person may be
this Act and regulations made under
                                                authorised to exercise
                 this Act

(6) Any employee of PSA              — Powers of an authorised officer
     Corporation Limited                   under —

                                        (a) sections 21 and 42;

                                        (b) section 86 in relation to

                                        any offence under

                                        section 17, 18 or 19,

                                        Part 4 or to any offence

                                        under regulation 30 of the

                                        Environmental Public

                                        Health                     (Public

                                        Cleansing) Regulations

                                        for           contravening

                                        regulations 4, 8(2), 9, 14,

                                        15(1) or (3), 25 and

                                        26(1)(a) and (b) of those

                                        Regulations; and

                                        (c) section 88 in relation to

                                        any offence under

                                        regulation 30 of the

                                        Environmental Public

                                        Health                     (Public

                                        Cleansing) Regulations

                                        for           contravening

                                        regulations 4, 8(2), 9, 14,

                                        15(1) or (3), 25 and

                                        26(1)(a) and (b) of those

                                        Regulations.

                                             [S 442/2013; S 747/2020]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH

                                   ACT 1987

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
      ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH ACT

       (CHAPTER 95, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

1. Act 32 of 1968 — Environmental Public Health Act, 1968

Bill           : 36/1968

First Reading  : 3 December 1968

Second and Third Readings : 16 December 1968

Commencement   : 2 January 1969 (except sections 88 to
                     100)
                     1 September 1972 (sections 88 to 94,
                     renumbered as sections 93 to 99 when
                     the Act was revised in the
                     1970 Revised Edition)

Note: This Act repealed sections 65 to 119, the First Schedule and
        paragraph 3 of the Third Schedule of the Local Government
        Integration Ordinance 1963 (Ordinance 18 of 1963).

2. Act 38 of 1970 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill           : 34/1970

First Reading  : 22 July 1970

Second and Third Readings : 2 September 1970

Commencement   : 30 October 1970

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      ii

3. 1970 Revised Edition — Environmental Public Health Act (Chapter 155)

Operation             : 31 May 1971

4. G.N. No. S 222/1972 — Metrication (Environmental Public Health Act)
                                   Order, 1972

Commencement          : 1 September 1972

5. Act 32 of 1972 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1972

Bill                  : 30/1972

First Reading         : 24 October 1972

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 1972

Commencement          : 8 December 1972

6. Act 7 of 1974 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1974

Bill                  : 1/1974

First Reading         : 4 March 1974

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1974

Commencement          : 10 May 1974

7. Act 29 of 1975 — Water Pollution Control and Drainage Act, 1975
   (Amendments made by section 69 read with the Second Schedule to the above
   Act)

Bill                  : 27/1975

First Reading         : 26 March 1975

Second Reading        : 29 July 1975

Notice of Amendments  : 29 July 1975

Third Reading         : 29 July 1975

Commencement          : 1 September 1975 (section 69 read
                            with the Second Schedule)

8. 1985 Revised Edition — Environmental Public Health Act (Chapter 95)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      iii

                                 PART 2
      ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH ACT 1987

                    (2020 REVISED EDITION)

9. Act 14 of 1987 — Environmental Public Health Act 1987

Bill                  : 2/1987

First Reading         : 26 January 1987

Second Reading        : 20 May 1987

Notice of Amendments  : 20 May 1987

Third Reading         : 20 May 1987

Commencement          : 1 July 1987

10. 1988 Revised Edition — Environmental Public Health Act (Chapter 95)

Operation             : 30 April 1988

11. Act 37 of 1989 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 1989

Bill                  : 38/1989

First Reading         : 6 October 1989

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 1989

Commencement          : 15 January 1990

12. Act 32 of 1992 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 1992

Bill                  : 31/1992

First Reading         : 31 July 1992

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 1992

Commencement          : 1 November 1992

13. Act 2 of 1996 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 1995

Bill                  : 41/1995

First Reading         : 1 November 1995

Second and Third Readings : 5 December 1995

Commencement          : 2 February 1996

14. G.N. No. S 77/1998 — Environmental Public Health Act (Amendment of
                                  Fourth Schedule) Notification 1998

Commencement          : 1 March 1998

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               iv

15. Act 9 of 1999 — Environmental Pollution Control Act 1999
     (Amendments made by section 78(4) read with paragraph 3 of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 2/1999

First Reading  : 20 January 1999

Second and Third Readings : 11 February 1999

Commencement   : 1 April 1999 (section 78(4) read with
                     paragraph 3 of the Fourth Schedule)

16. Act 22 of 1999 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 1999

Bill           : 11/1999

First Reading  : 8 March 1999

Second and Third Readings : 4 May 1999

Commencement   : 1 June 1999

17. 1999 Revised Edition — Environmental Public Health Act (Chapter 95)

Operation      : 1 August 1999

18. Act 4 of 2002 — National Environment Agency Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 50 read with item (4) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill           : 13/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 1 July 2002 (section 50 read with
                     item (4) of the Second Schedule)

19. Act 7 of 2002 — Sale of Food (Amendment) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 22 of the above Act)

Bill           : 10/2002

First Reading  : 3 May 2002

Second and Third Readings : 24 May 2002

Commencement   : 1 July 2002 (section 22)

20. 2002 Revised Edition — Environmental Public Health Act (Chapter 95)

Operation      : 31 December 2002

21. Act 47 of 2004 — Building Maintenance and Strata Management
                             Act 2004

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         v

(Amendments made by section 140 read with item (5) of the Fifth Schedule to
the above Act)

Bill                     : 6/2004

First Reading            : 6 February 2004

Second Reading           : 19 April 2004

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 5 of 2004

Third Reading            : 19 October 2004

Commencement             : 1 April 2005 (section 140 read with
                               item (5) of the Fifth Schedule)

22. Act 27 of 2007 — Radiation Protection Act 2007
     (Amendments made by section 46 read with item (1) of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                     : 14/2007

First Reading            : 9 April 2007

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 2007

Commencement             : 1 July 2007 (section 46 read with
                               item (1) of the Second Schedule)

23. Act 26 of 2007 — Environmental Pollution Control (Amendment)
                             Act 2007

     (Amendments made by section 7 read with item (3) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                     : 13/2007

First Reading            : 9 April 2007

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 2007

Commencement             : 1 January 2008 (section 7 read with
                               item (3) of the Schedule)

24. Act 26 of 2008 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 2008

Bill                     : 18/2008

First Reading            : 25 August 2008

Second and Third Readings : 16 September 2008

Commencement             : 1 November 2008

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                vi

25. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 38 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 38 of the Sixth Schedule)

26. G.N. No. S 442/2013 — Environmental Public Health Act (Amendment of
                                  Fourth Schedule) Notification 2013

Commencement    : 18 July 2013

27. Act 15 of 2014 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 2014

Bill            : 3/2014

First Reading   : 20 January 2014

Second and Third Readings : 17 February 2014

Commencement    : 1 April 2014

28. Act 29 of 2014 — Business Names Registration Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 47 read with item 6 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill            : 26/2014

First Reading   : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 2014

Commencement    : 3 January 2016 (section 47 read with
                      item 6 of the Schedule)

29. Act 4 of 2016 — National Environment Agency (Miscellaneous
                           Amendments) Act 2016

     (Amendments made by section 4 of the above Act)

Bill            : 7/2016

First Reading   : 28 January 2016

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 2016

Commencement    : 1 May 2016 (section 4)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               vii

30. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
     (Amendments made by section 5 of the above Act)

Bill           : 15/2016

First Reading  : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement   : 10 June 2016 (section 5)

31. Act 48 of 2017 — Sale of Food (Amendment) Act 2017
     (Amendments made by section 24 of the above Act)

Bill           : 42/2017

First Reading  : 2 October 2017

Second and Third Readings : 7 November 2017

Commencement   : 1 February 2018 (section 24)

32. Act 48 of 2018 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill           : 39/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 2 October 2018

Commencement   : 1 February 2019

33. Act 11 of 2018 — Public Utilities (Amendment) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 19 of the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2018

First Reading  : 8 January 2018

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2018

Commencement   : 25 March 2019 (section 19)

34. Act 11 of 2019 — Singapore Food Agency Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 57 of the above Act)

Bill           : 5/2019

First Reading  : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement   : 1 April 2019 (section 57)

35. G.N. No. S 747/2020 — Environmental Public Health Act (Amendment of
                                  Fourth Schedule) Notifications 2020

Commencement   : 27 July 2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      viii

36. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 475 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 475)

37. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 50 of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 50 of the Schedule)

38. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 22(5) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 22(5))

39. Act 33 of 2020 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill                  : 31/2020

First Reading         : 3 September 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2020

Commencement          : 20 July 2021 (except section 7)
                            31 August 2021 (section 7)

40. 2020 Revised Edition — Environmental Public Health
                                     Act 1987

Operation             : 31 December 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          ix

41. Act 24 of 2021 — Environmental Protection and Management
                             (Amendment) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 2 August 2021
                                (Bill No. 21/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 13 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2022

42. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                      : 18/2021

First Reading             : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement              : 1 April 2022

43. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Bill                      : 24/2022

First Reading             : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement              : 1 November 2022 (sections 20(6) and
                                21(4))

44. Act 23 of 2023 — Building and Related Works (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2023

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 19/2023

First Reading             : 9 May 2023

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2023

Commencement              : 18 December 2023

45. Act 5 of 2023 — Environmental Public Health (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                      : 1/2023

First Reading             : 9 January 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2023

Commencement              : 1 July 2023
                                1 January 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               x

46. Act 4 of 2008 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2008

Bill           : 49/2007

First Reading  : 12 November 2007

Second and Third Readings : 22 January 2008

Commencement   : 1 April 2024

47. Act 12 of 2023 — Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 9/2023

First Reading  : 24 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2023

Commencement   : 1 June 2024

48. Act 5 of 2025 — Electronic Gazette and Legislation Act 2025

Bill           : 47/2024

First Reading  : 11 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 7 January 2025

Commencement   : 9 March 2025

49. Act 3 of 2021 — Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021

Bill           : 44/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 July 2025

50. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill           : 10/2020

First Reading  : 4 February 2020

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2020

Commencement   : 1 October 2025

51. Act 7 of 2025 — Food Safety and Security Act 2025

Bill           : 49/2024

First Reading  : 12 November 2024

Second and Third Readings : 8 January 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               xi

Commencement   : 28 November 2025

52. Act 8 of 2026 — Coastal Protection and Other Amendments Act 2026

Bill           : 2/2026

First Reading  : 3 February 2026

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2026

Commencement   : 29 May 2026

53. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill           : 12/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement   : 1 July 2026

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  COMPARATIVE TABLE

         ENVIRONMENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH
                           ACT 1987

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers to locate the corresponding
provisions in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2002 Ed.
                   16—(1A)
16—(2)
   (3)                (2)
                   20—(1A)
20—(2)
   (3)                (1B)
   (4)                (1C)
   (5)                (2)
   (6)                (3)
   (7)                (4)
   (8)                (5)
   (9)                (6)
   (10)               (7)
   (11)               (8)
                   62—(2A)
62—(3)                (3)
   (4)                (4) [Deleted by Act 33 of 2020]
                   80H—(2A)
—                     (3)
80H—(3)               (4)
                      (5)
   (4)                (6)
   (5)                (7)
   (6)                (8)
   (7)                (9)
   (8)
   (9)
   (10)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           ii

                 2020 Ed.            2002 Ed.
   (11)
   (12)                       (10)
   (13)                       (11)
98—(3)                        (12)
   (4)                     98—(2A)
   (5)                        (3)
   (6)                        (4)
   (7)                        (5)
99—(13)                       (6)
   (14)                    99—(12A)
   (15)                       (12B)
   (16)                       (13)
   (17)                       (14)
   (18)                       (14A)
   (19)                       (14B)
[Omitted as spent]            (15)
                           112

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
