EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
Cat Amendment (Local Laws)
Bill 2026

Cat Amendment (Local Laws) Bill 2026
Page 2 of 5
Explanatory Memorandum
Cat Amendment (Local Laws) Bill 2026
OVERVIEW
The Cat Amendment (Local Laws) Bill 2026 (the Bill) amends the Cat Act 2011
(the Act) to provide a head of power in the Act to enable local governments to make
local laws that:
• restrict cats to their owners' premises;
• prohibit cats from all public areas;
• place conditions on when a cat may be permitted in a public area;
• introduce cat curfews/time restrictions; and
• require cats to be under the effective control of their owners or contained if leaving
their owners' property.
The Bill is intended to clarify the existing legislation and ensure local governments
have clearly expressed authority to regulate cat containment in response to community
expectations.
These amendments respond to community and local government concerns regarding
the impact of free-roaming domestic cats on native wildlife and amenity in public areas.
The amendments are expected to address, through local government's local laws,
some of the issues associated with roaming cats.
Prior to this Bill, several local governments had attempted to make cat containment
local laws. The Joint Standing Committee on Delegated Legislation (JSCDL) has held
the view that the existing powers of the Act did not permit these local laws to be made.
This reform aligns with the State Government's commitments to protect native fauna
and promote responsible pet ownership, and resolves the key issues identified by the
JSCDL regarding the scope of local law making power under the Act.

Cat Amendment (Local Laws) Bill 2026
Page 3 of 5
Explanatory Memorandum
CLAUSE NOTES
Clause 1 Short title
This clause cites the short title of the legislation, the Cat Amendment (Local Laws)
Act 2026.
Clause 2 Commencement
This clause provides that sections 1 and 2 of the Act come into operation on the day
on which this Act receives Royal Assent.
The rest of the Act comes into operation on the day after Royal Assent.
Clause 3 Act amended
This clause provides that this Act amends the Cat Act 2011.
Clause 4 Section 79 amended
This clause amends section 79 of the Cat Act 2011.
Subsection (1) deletes subsection 79(3)(f) and inserts a new subsection 79(3)(f) as
follows:
"(f) the prohibition of cats from places, whether absolutely or otherwise;"
This paragraph provides the head of power for a local law to prohibit cats from entering
or being present in places. The phrase "whether absolutely or otherwise" is included
to ensure flexibility in how such prohibitions may operate.
An absolute prohibition prevents cats from being in a specified place at any time. As
an example, a prohibition that is not absolute may allow for conditions or exceptions
such as restricting cats during certain times, circumstances, or under specified
conditions.
This provision makes clear that a local law may impose either full or conditional
prohibitions depending on what is considered necessary and appropriate by local
governments for effective cat management in their relevant districts.
Subsection (2) inserts a new subsection 79(4) after the existing subsection 79(3).
This new subsection expressly states that it does not limit subsection 79(3)(f), nor does
it limit the operation of the Interpretation Act 1984.
The new subsection clarifies the scope of the head power in section 79(3)(f) by
providing that local laws made under that provision may:
• Prohibit a cat from being in a place: including any or all public places, or any place
other than the premises at which the cat is ordinarily kept.

Cat Amendment (Local Laws) Bill 2026
Page 4 of 5
Explanatory Memorandum
• Specify when a prohibition applies: including particular times of the day, times of
the year, during specified events, or in relation to a place within an otherwise
prohibited area. The subsection also allows local laws to provide that the
prohibition does not apply in certain circumstances, such as where a cat is under
the effective control of a person or is otherwise contained.
• Defines what constitutes a cat being under 'effective control' or 'contained' for the
purposes of the local law.
Subsection 79(4) sets out an inclusive, non-exhaustive, list of measures that a local
law may adopt.
The examples given for subsection 79(4) demonstrate that a local law may combine
and apply the elements in subsection 79(4) in the manner the local government
considers suitable for cat management within its district. For instance:
• example 2 relates to cats being excluded from a nominated park:
"A local law may prohibit a cat from being in a specified park."; and
• example 3 demonstrates a provision of a local law that is creating an exception
relating to place (section 79(4)(b)(ii)) and including an exception relating to a
condition (section 79(4)(b)(iii)).
Noting the inclusion of the new subsection and the indicative, non-exhaustive
examples provided, the policy intent of these amendments is for local governments to
create local laws to contain cats as they consider necessary to address the local
circumstances. This is further reinforced by the reference to the Interpretation Act 1984
in the leading words of the subsection.
Section 43(7) of the Interpretation Act 1984 states:
"(7) A power to make subsidiary legislation may be exercised —
(a) either in relation to all cases to which the power extends, or in relation to all
those cases subject to specified exceptions, or in relation to any specified case
or class of case; and
(b) so as to make, as respects the cases in relation to which it is exercised —
(i) the same provision for all cases in relation to which the power is
exercised, or different provision for different cases or classes of case, or
different provisions for the same case or class of case for different
purposes of the legislation; or
(ii) any such provision either unconditionally or subject to any specified
condition."

Cat Amendment (Local Laws) Bill 2026
Page 5 of 5
Explanatory Memorandum
By expressly referencing the Interpretation Act 1984, the new subsection 79(4)
clarifies that the local law making power is intended to be broad enough to authorise
both types of containment laws (area-specific and district-wide), as well as other
tailored regulatory responses that reflect local environmental, community, and
operational needs.
