THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                           GAS ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                                                               2020 Ed.

                        Gas Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2

                               ADMINISTRATION

3. Authority to administer Act
4. Power to obtain information
5. Restriction on disclosure of confidential information

                                        PART 3

            LICENSING OF ACTIVITIES RELATING TO GAS

 6. Prohibition on unauthorised activities relating to gas
 7. Application for gas licence, etc.
 8. Exemption
 9. Conditions of gas licences
10. Prohibition on transfer of gas licence without consent of

         Authority
11. Licensing of gas service worker
12. Application for gas service worker licence
13. Engagement of unlicensed gas service worker prohibited

                                        PART 4

     MODIFICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF GAS LICENCES

14. Power to modify gas licences
15. Notice of proposal to modify
16. Modification
17. Appeal against modification
18. Power to revoke or suspend gas licence

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.            Gas Act 2001                                          2

Section
   19. Enforcement
   20. [Repealed]

                    PART 5

                    GAS TRANSPORTERS

21.       General duties of gas transporter
22.       Duty to connect
23.       Power to require security
24.       Power to recover expenditure
25.       Prices
26.       Power to fell trees, etc.
27.       Works
28.       Provision of convenient ways, etc.
29.       Maintenance, etc., of gas service pipes and gas installations
30.       Relocation of gas main or gas service pipe
31.       Removal of obstruction over existing gas main, etc.
32.       Carrying out of earthworks within vicinity of gas plant or gas
          pipe
32A.      Damage to gas plant or gas pipe
32B.      Damage to submarine gas pipelines
33.       Special administration order
34.       Power to make special administration order, etc.
35.       Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others
36.       Savings of wayleaves or easements

                    PART 6

GAS RETAILERS, GAS IMPORTERSAND GENERAL PROVISIONS

37.       General duties of gas retailer
38.       Rights of access to relevant facility
38A.      Arrangements by Authority for allocation of gas
38B.      Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.
38C.      Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.: supplementary
          provisions
39.       Notice of obstruction of gas main or other apparatus
40.       Obstructing gas licensee in performance of duties
41.       Making of false statements
42.       Falsely pretending to be employee of Authority or gas licensee
43.       Gas plant and gas fittings not to be subject to distress

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
3  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Section

   43A. Repurposing of facilities
   44. Meters
   45. Prices of gas retailer
   46. Power to recover gas charges, etc.
   47. Unauthorised connection with gas pipeline network, etc.
   48. Supply of gas illegally taken
   49. Restoration of supply without consent
   50. Failure to notify connection to or disconnection from gas

            pipeline, etc.
   51. Proper use of gas
   52. No obligation to restore supply where consumer in default
   53. Entry for preventing escapes of gas, etc.
   54. Entry during supply
   55. Entry on discontinuance of supply
   56. Entry following discontinuance of supply
   57. [Repealed]
   58. Entry for replacing, repairing or altering pipes
   59. Entry into premises by gas transporter for purposes of inspection
   60. Procedure for rights of entry on land
   61. Provisions as to powers of entry
   61AA. Prohibition relating to gas for electricity generation, etc.
   61AB. Duties of gas importer holding gas importer’s licence (central

            import)

                                           PART 7

                                GAS NETWORK CODE

   61A. Interpretation of this Part
   61B. Gas Network Code
   61C. Implementation of Gas Network Code
   61D. Gas Network Code has effect as contract
   61E. Limitation of actions under Gas Network Code
   61F. Directions in relation to Gas Network Code

                                          PART 7A
                                 CODES OF PRACTICE

   62. Codes of practice
   63. Directions by Authority

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                                     4

          PART 7B

          CONTROL OF GAS LICENSEES AND ENTITIES WITH
                  INTEREST IN GAS PIPELINE NETWORK

Section

   63A. Interpretation of this Part
   63B. Control of equity interests and voting power in, and business of,

            designated gas licensee, designated entity and designated
            business trust
   63C. Approval of applications under section 63B
   63CA. Regulations for carrying out sections 63B and 63C
   63D. Power to exempt
   63E. Power to issue directions
   63F. Effect of directions
   63G. Offences, penalties and defences
   63H. Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of
            designated gas licensee

                                        PART 8

                                       SAFETY

64. Safety requirements in relation to gas
65. Notified escapes of gas
66. Suspected escapes of gas
67. Power to disconnect and interrupt supply of gas
68. Power to reduce supply pressure

          PART 8A

          SEVERE GAS SHORTAGE

68A.      Meaning of “severe gas shortage situation”
68B.      Directions by Authority
68C.      Requests for information, etc.
68D.      Regulations for this Part, etc.
68E.      Appeals to General Division of High Court
68F.      Recovery of compensation

                                        PART 9
                                   COMPETITION

69. Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
         competition

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
5        Gas Act 2001                                               2020 Ed.

Section  Abuse of dominant position
   70.   Exemption
   71.   Request for Authority to examine agreement or to consider
   72.   conduct, etc.
         [Repealed]
   72A.  Power to investigate
   73.   Power when conducting investigation
   74.   Power to enter premises under warrant
   75.   Privileged communication
   76.   Decision following investigation
   77.   Enforcement and appeal
   78.   Notification
   79.   Offences
   80.   Destroying or falsifying documents
   81.   False or misleading information
   82.

                                          PART 10

                                     APPEAL PANEL

   83. Request to establish Appeal Panel
   84. Composition and procedure of Appeal Panel
   85. Powers of Appeal Panel

                                           PART 11

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   86. Keeping of register
   87. Effect of direction
   88. Jurisdiction of court
   89. Offences by body corporate
   90. Fee or financial penalty recoverable
   91. General penalties
   92. Composition of offences
   92A. Payment into Consolidated Fund
   93. Appeal to Minister
   94. General exemption
   95. Service of documents
   96. Regulations
   96A. Incorporation by reference
   96B. Advisory guidelines

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.          Gas Act 2001                                      6

Section
   97. [Omitted]

                                         PART 12

                          TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

 98. Transfer of property, rights, obligations and liabilities for
          separation of gas transporting and retailing business

 99. Existing agreements, etc.
100. Waiver of prohibition of transfer
101. Power to make regulations and issue directions, etc.

An Act to create a competitive market framework for the gas industry,
  to make provision for the safety, technical and economic regulation
  of the transportation and retail of gas, and for other matters
  connected therewith.

                                   [23 July 2003: Section 1 and Part XII ;
                19 December 2003: Sections 2, 3(1), (2), (3)(e) and (h),
                (4) and (5), 4 and 5, Parts IX, X, sections 87 to 91 and

                                                                              95 ;
                11 June 2007: Sections 3(3)(a), (b), (c), (d), (f) and (g)
                and (6), 8, 9, 10, 14 to 18, 21, 24, 27, 28, 30, 31, 36, 38,
                40 to 44, 47, 48, 53, 54, 58, 59, 60, 61, 64 to 68, 86, 92,

                                                                     96 and 97 ;
                    14 February 2008: Sections 12, 13, 37, 45 and 46 ]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Gas Act 2001.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Appeal Panel” means a panel established by the Minister under
         section 84;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
7  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

   “authorised officer” means any person authorised by the
      Authority under section 3(2);

   “Authority” means the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
      established under the Energy Market Authority of Singapore
      Act 2001;

   “check meter” means any subsidiary device used to verify the
      readings taken by a meter;

   “code of practice” means a code of practice issued or modified
      by the Authority under section 62;

   “connect”, in relation to any premises, means connect to a gas
      main of a gas transporter, whether directly or by means of a
      gas service pipe, and “disconnect” and “re‑connect” have
      corresponding meanings except that they also include
      discontinuing or restoring (as the case may be) the
      conveyance of gas to the premises;

   “consumer” means a person —

   (a) to whose premises gas is shipped; or

   (b) whose premises are connected to a gas pipeline
        network for the purpose of obtaining a supply of gas;

   “convey” means the transmission or distribution of gas by
      means of gas pipes, and “conveying”, “conveyed”, and
      “conveyance” are to be construed accordingly;

   “direct access customer” means a person who has an
      arrangement with —

   (a) a gas transporter for the conveyance of gas to the
        person’s premises through a gas pipeline network
        owned by, or under the management or control of,
        that gas transporter; or

   (b) a person other than a gas transporter for the shipping
        of gas to the firstmentioned person’s premises and
        has the benefit, under the arrangement, of identifiable
        rights for the conveyance of gas to the firstmentioned
        person’s premises through the gas pipeline network

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             8

          to which the firstmentioned person’s premises are
          connected;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“document” includes electronic records;

“earthworks” means —

          (a) any act of excavating earth, rock or other material (by
               whatever means);

          (b) any act done on, in or under the ground in connection
               with —

          (i) any work for or relating to the construction,
              reconstruction, extension, renovation,
              alteration, demolition or repair of any
              building, road, railway, bridge, viaduct,
              flyover, sewer or sewerage works;

          (ii) any work for or relating to the laying,
               inspecting, repairing or renewing of any
               main, pipe, cable, fitting or other apparatus;

          (iii) any soil investigation work; or

          (iv) such other works as are usually undertaken by a
               person carrying on business as a contractor in
               the construction industry or as a professional
               civil or structural engineer;

          (c) any act of boring, dredging, jacking, levelling, piling
              or tunnelling on or under any premises or street by
              any mechanical means; or

          (d) the driving or sinking of any bar, rod, pole, picket,
               casing or tube into the ground;

“electronic records” has the meaning given by the Electronic
   Transactions Act 2010;

“exempt gas transporter” means a person carrying out any
   activity specified in section 6(1)(a) who is granted an
   exemption under section 8;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
9  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

   “gas” means natural gas and town gas, but does not include
      liquefied petroleum gas;

   “gas appliance” means any appliance in which gas is consumed,
      either for domestic requirements (including for cooking,
      heating or cooling purposes) or for industrial or commercial
      requirements (including for powering a gas engine or as
      feedstock in a chemical process);

   “gas fitting” includes any pipe, valve, meter, regulator or other
      device for the control, measurement and use of gas;

   “gas importer” means a person holding a gas importer’s licence;

   “gas importer’s licence” means a licence granted under
      section 7(3)(ga) or (h);

                                                                          [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

   “gas importer’s licence (central import)” means a licence
      granted under section 7(3)(ga);

                                                                          [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

   “gas importer’s licence (non-central import)” means a licence
      granted under section 7(3)(h);

                                                                          [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

   “gas installation” means a discrete grouping of gas fittings
      linking a gas service isolation valve to a gas appliance;

                                                                          [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

   “gas licence” means a licence granted under section 7(3);

   “gas licensee” means a person holding a gas licence;

   “gas main” means any gas pipe used for the distribution of gas
      from a gas transmission pipeline to a consumer but does not
      include a gas service pipe or an internal pipe;

   “gas mains network” means a network of interconnected gas
      mains and related equipment;

   “Gas Network Code” means a code issued by the Authority or
      modified under section 61B;

   “gas pipeline” means a gas transmission pipeline, a gas main or a
      gas service pipe;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             10

“gas pipeline network” means a gas transmission network, a gas
   mains network and gas service pipes;

“gas plant” means any valve, regulator, plant, pipe, equipment or
   apparatus used for, or for purposes connected with, the
   production, processing, conveyance, storage or shipping of
   gas;

“gas retailer” means a person holding a gas retailer’s licence;

“gas retailer’s licence” means a licence granted under
   section 7(3)(d);

“gas service isolation valve” means a valve, located at or near
   the boundary line of any property or the apron of any
   building, used by a gas transporter to isolate the supply of gas
   to that property or building;

“gas service pipe” means a pipe or any part thereof, other than a
   gas main, used for the purpose of conveying gas from a gas
   main to a gas service isolation valve;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

“gas service work” means any work carried out on any gas
   installation or gas appliance, in whole or in part, including
   any design, construction, installation, commissioning,
   erection, testing, repair, addition, alteration or maintenance
   work;

“gas service worker” means a person carrying on the activities
   referred to in section 11(1);

“gas shipper” means a person holding a gas shipper’s licence;

“gas shipper’s licence” means a licence granted under
   section 7(3)(c);

“gas supply system” means all gas pipeline networks, gas plants
   and other related equipment owned by, or under the
   management or control of, all gas transporters for the
   purpose of supplying gas to consumers;

“gas tightness” means the freedom from leak when a gas
   pipeline network, gas installation or gas fitting is tested at the
   appropriate test pressure;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
11  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    “gas transmission pipeline” means a bulk transmission pipeline
       or interconnected transmission pipeline, together with
       equipment (including pressure regulating and control
       valves) used for the conveyance of gas to a direct access
       customer or a gas mains network, and “gas transmission
       network” is to be construed accordingly;

    “gas transport agent” means a person holding a gas transport
       agent’s licence;

    “gas transport agent’s licence” means a licence granted under
       section 7(3)(b);

    “gas transporter” means a person holding a gas transporter’s
       licence;

    “gas transporter’s licence” means a licence granted under
       section 7(3)(a);

    “hotwork” means any work on a non-isolated gas pipeline
       network involving the use of a local source of ignition and
       includes welding, gas‑cutting, grinding, chipping, and any
       process capable of generating heat, sparks or both, which
       may be capable of igniting flammable vapour or any other
       combustible material;

    “import”, in relation to natural gas or LNG, means to bring or
       cause to be brought into Singapore by any means, the natural
       gas or LNG from any place outside Singapore, other than any
       such natural gas or LNG in transit or to be transhipped; but
       does not include the actual conveyance of such natural gas in
       connection therewith;

    “information” includes information contained in electronic
       records;

    “internal pipe” means any pipe, not being a gas pipeline, used for
       the purpose of conveying gas from a gas service pipe to a gas
       appliance, including a gas fitting inserted therein but
       excluding a meter;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.                  Gas Act 2001                             12

“licensed gas business” means the business of a gas licensee in
   carrying on the activity in respect of which it holds a gas
   licence;

“licensed gas service worker” means a person who is licensed
   under section 12(3);

“liquefied natural gas” or “LNG” means natural gas in its
   liquefied state;

“LNG terminal” means a facility located onshore or in
   Singapore waters which is used to receive, store or gasify
   LNG that is imported into Singapore and at which all or any
   of the following activities are carried out in relation to any
   LNG received at the facility (including after it has been
   gasified thereat):

          (a) adjustment of pressure or flow rate;

          (b) adjustment of temperature;

          (c) filtering;

          (d) metering;

“LNG terminal operator” means a person holding an LNG
   terminal operator’s licence;

“LNG terminal operator’s licence” means a licence granted
   under section 7(3)(f);

“meter” means any device for computing the volume of gas
   supplied or amount of energy supplied, for charging
   purposes, but does not include a check meter;

“meter installation” means any meter and its associated
   equipment and installation, including any associated
   pipework, filter, valve, pressure regulating equipment, seal,
   housing, mounting, telemetry equipment, gas chromatograph
   and flow computer;

“natural gas” means any mixture of gaseous hydrocarbons
   which is conveyed by gas pipes and is composed of —

          (a) predominantly methane; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
13                  Gas Act 2001                             2020 Ed.

    (b) as to the remainder, varying amounts of other
         hydrocarbons and other combustible and
         non‑combustible gases;

    “natural gas or LNG in transit” means any natural gas or LNG
       that is brought into Singapore by any means solely for the
       purpose of being taken out of Singapore by the same or any
       other means, without such natural gas or LNG being brought
       into an onshore receiving facility or LNG terminal, or kept at
       any place in Singapore, pending its being taken out of
       Singapore;

    “occupier” means the person in occupation of any premises and
       includes the person having the charge, management or
       control of the premises either on the person’s own account
       or as agent for another person, but does not include a lodger;

    “onshore receiving facility” means a facility located in
       Singapore upstream of an onshore gas transmission
       network owned by, or under the management or control of,
       a gas transporter, and at which all or any of the following
       activities are carried out in relation to any gas received at the
       facility:

    (a) adjustment of pressure or flow rate;

    (b) adjustment of temperature;

    (c) filtering;

    (d) metering;

    “onshore receiving facility operator” means a person holding an
       onshore receiving facility operator’s licence;

    “onshore receiving facility operator’s licence” means a licence
       granted under section 7(3)(e);

    “premises” means any building, structure or other place to which
       gas is, or is to be, conveyed;

    “prescribed generation entity” has the meaning given by
       section 41G of the Electricity Act 2001;

                                    [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             14

“production” means the production of gas from a production
   well or a manufacturing plant;

“public safety” means the obviation of danger to the general
   public and to any public place or public property;

“regulations” means regulations made under this Act;

“relevant gas main”, in relation to a gas transporter, means a gas
   main under the control of that gas transporter which is in the
   area specified in its gas transporter’s licence and is used for
   conveying gas to any premises;

“relevant gas retailer” means, in relation to a consumer other
   than a direct access customer, the gas retailer who supplies
   that consumer with gas conveyed to the premises of that
   consumer;

“relevant gas shipper” means, in relation to a consumer who is a
   direct access customer, the gas shipper who makes
   arrangements with a gas transporter for gas to be conveyed
   to the premises of that consumer;

“retail” means the supply of gas to a consumer other than a direct
   access customer, and “retailer” and “retailing” are to be
   construed accordingly;

“shipping”, in relation to gas, means arranging with a gas
   transporter for gas to be introduced into, conveyed by and
   taken out of a gas pipeline network owned by, or under the
   management or control of, the gas transporter for purposes
   connected with the supply of gas to any premises, and “ship”
   is to be construed accordingly;

“standard of performance” means a standard of performance
   issued or modified by the Authority under section 62;

“street” includes any road, highway, square, footway or passage,
   whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the public has a
   right of way, the way over any public bridge, and any road,
   footway or passage, open court or open alley, used or
   intended to be used as a means of access to 2 or more
   holdings, whether the public has a right of way thereover or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
15  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    not; and all channels, sewers, drains, tunnels, ditches and
    reserves at the side of any street are deemed to be part of the
    street;

    “supply”, in relation to gas, means the physical delivery of gas to
       a consumer’s premises;

    “town gas” means any substance in a gaseous state which is
       conveyed in gas pipes and is manufactured from
       petrochemical feedstock or natural gas, and has hydrogen
       as one of its main constituents;

    “town gas producer” means a person holding a town gas
       producer’s licence;

    “town gas producer’s licence” means a licence granted under
       section 7(3)(g);

    “tranship”, in relation to natural gas or LNG, means to bring or
       cause to be brought into Singapore the natural gas or LNG by
       any means solely for the purpose of taking it out of Singapore
       by the same or any other means —

    (a) where such natural gas or LNG is brought into an
         onshore receiving facility or LNG terminal, or kept at
         any place in Singapore, pending its being taken out of
         Singapore; and

    (b) whether or not such natural gas or LNG is subject to
         any processing pending its being taken out of
         Singapore.

                                                                               [24/2007; 43/2018]

                                    PART 2

                            ADMINISTRATION

Authority to administer Act

 3.—(1) The Authority is charged with the general administration of
this Act and the exercise of the functions and duties imposed on the
Authority by this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                              16

 (2) The Authority may authorise any person to assist it in the
exercise of its functions and duties under this Act, either generally or
in a particular case.

 (3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is the function and duty
of the Authority —

(a) to protect the interests of consumers with regard to —

          (i) the prices and other terms for the supply of gas;

          (ii) the reliability, availability and continuity of the
               supply of gas; and

          (iii) the quality of gas supply services provided;

(b) to protect the public from dangers (including to health)
     arising from the import, production, processing, storage,
     conveyance, shipping, supply or use of gas;

          (c) to secure that gas licensees whose prices are controlled by
              the Authority are able to provide an efficient service and
              maintain financial viability;

(d) to promote the efficient use of gas by consumers;

          (e) to promote competition in the supply of natural gas;

          (f) to perform the functions of economic, technical and safety
              regulator for the gas industry in Singapore;

(g) to ensure security of supply of gas to consumers and to
     arrange for the secure operation of the gas transmission
     network in accordance with the Gas Network Code or other
     codes of practice;

(h) to advise the Government on all matters relating to the
     production, processing, storage, conveyance, shipping,
     supply or use of gas; and

          (i) to do such other things as are required under this Act and to
              take such steps as are necessary or expedient for the
              effective discharge of its functions and duties under this
              Act.

                                                                                                          [43/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
17  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (4) In performing its functions and exercising its powers, the
Authority must —

    (a) use its reasonable endeavours to apply principles and
         methodologies to gas licensees who conduct similar
         activities within a particular sector of the gas industry in
         a non-discriminatory manner; and

    (b) act in a reasonable manner in all circumstances.

 (5) Nothing in this section is to be construed as imposing on the
Authority, directly or indirectly, any form of duty or liability
enforceable by proceedings before any court.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, “consumers” includes both
existing and future consumers of gas.

Power to obtain information

 4.—(1) The Authority or any authorised officer may by notice
require any person to furnish, within a reasonable period specified in
the notice, all information and documents relating to all such matters
as may reasonably be required by the Authority to carry out the
functions or duties assigned to the Authority by or under this Act,
which are within the knowledge of that person or in that person’s
custody or under that person’s control.

 (2) The power to require a person to furnish any information or
document under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require that person, or any person who is or was an
            officer or employee of that person, to provide an
            explanation of the information or document;

       (b) if the information or document is not furnished, to require
            that person to state, to the best of that person’s knowledge
            and belief, where it is; and

       (c) if the information is recorded otherwise than in legible
            form, to require the information to be made available to the
            Authority in legible form.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.              Gas Act 2001                                 18

 (3) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person by notice under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence.

(4) Any person who —

(a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any information
     or document which the person has been required by any
     notice under subsection (1) to furnish; or

(b) in furnishing any information or document required by any
     notice under subsection (1), makes any statement which
     the person knows to be false in a material particular or
     recklessly makes such a statement,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) If any person fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1),
the court may, on the application of the Authority, make such order as
the court thinks fit to secure compliance with such notice.

 (6) Any order referred to in subsection (5) may provide that all the
costs and expenses of and incidental to the application are to be borne
by such person or by any officer of a company or other association
who is responsible for the failure.

 (7) The Authority through an authorised officer may, at any time
after the expiry of the period specified in the notice referred to in
subsection (1), enter any building or place where the Authority has
reason to believe that any information or document in respect of
which it has given the notice may be found, and seize or take extracts
or copies of any such information or document.

 (8) The Authority is entitled without payment to keep any
information or document, or any copy or extract thereof, furnished
to it under subsection (1) or obtained under subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (9) Except in the performance of the person’s functions or duties or
when required to do so by any court or under any written law, a person
who is or has been a member, an officer, an employee or an agent of
the Authority or a member of a committee of the Authority must not
disclose any information relating to the affairs of the Authority or of
any other person which has been obtained by the firstmentioned

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
19  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

person in the performance of the firstmentioned person’s functions or
duties.

 (10) Any person who contravenes subsection (9) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Restriction on disclosure of confidential information

 5.—(1) This section applies if —

       (a) any information or document is given by a person to the
            Authority under this Act (other than Part 9); and

       (b) at the time such information or document is given, the
            person giving it notifies the Authority in writing that it is of
            a confidential or commercially sensitive nature.

 (2) The Authority must not disclose to any person the information
or the contents of a document to which this section applies unless —

       (a) the Authority is of the opinion that —

               (i) the disclosure of the information or the contents of
                   the document would not cause detriment to the
                   person supplying it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or document; or

              (ii) although the disclosure of the information or the
                   contents of the document would cause detriment to
                   the person supplying it or to any other person who is
                   aware of the information or the contents of the
                   document, the public benefit in disclosing outweighs
                   that detriment;

       (b) the Authority gives written notice to —

               (i) the person who supplied the information or
                   document; and

              (ii) any other person whom the Authority is aware has
                   supplied the information or document to the person
                   referred to in sub‑paragraph (i), where the identity of
                   such other person is known to the Authority,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             20

(b) stating that the Authority wishes to disclose the
     information or contents of the document, specifying the
     nature of the intended disclosure and detailed reasons why
     the Authority wishes to make the disclosure and setting out
     a copy of this section; and

          (c) no appeal is made to the Minister under subsection (3)
              within 7 days of the date of the giving of the notice.

 (3) A person aggrieved by a notice under subsection (2)(b) may
appeal to the Minister under section 93(1)(a) within 7 days of the date
of the giving of the notice.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Subsection (2) does not prevent the Authority from disclosing
any information or the contents of any document —

(a) to any member, officer or employee of the Authority or any
     agent, consultant, committee or panel acting for or under
     the direction of the Authority;

(b) to the Minister or any agent, consultant, committee or
     panel acting for or under the direction of the Minister;

          (c) to an Appeal Panel;

(d) when required to do so by any court or under this Act or
     any other written law; or

          (e) for the purposes of any criminal proceedings.

                                                                   [24/2007]

 (5) For the purposes of this section, the disclosure of any
information or the contents of a document already in the public
domain at the time the Authority wishes to disclose it cannot cause
detriment to any person referred to in subsection (2)(a).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
21                    Gas Act 2001                           2020 Ed.

                      PART 3

    LICENSING OF ACTIVITIES RELATING TO GAS

Prohibition on unauthorised activities relating to gas

6.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), no person may —

    (a) convey gas —

    (i) through a gas pipeline or gas pipeline network to any
        premises; or

    (ii) to a gas pipeline or gas pipeline network owned by,
         or under the management or control of, a gas
         transporter;

    (b) convey gas for or on behalf of a gas transporter (other than
         as an employee of the gas transporter);

    (c) ship gas on or after such date as the Minister may, by order
        in the Gazette, specify;

    (d) retail gas on or after such date as the Minister may, by order
         in the Gazette, specify;

    (e) manage or operate any onshore receiving facility,
        whether —

    (i) for the person; or

    (ii) as principal, or for or on behalf of any other person
         (other than as an employee);

    (f) manage or operate any LNG terminal;

    (g) produce town gas on or after such date as the Minister may,
         by order in the Gazette, specify;

    (ga) import natural gas or liquefied natural gas for use by a
          prescribed generation entity;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

     (h) import natural gas or liquefied natural gas for the person’s
          own use or for use by any person other than a prescribed
          generation entity; or

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             22

          (i) carry on any other activity relating to gas that the Minister
              may, by order in the Gazette, specify,

unless the person is authorised to do so by a gas licence or is
exempted under section 8.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) A person may, without a licence —

(a) convey, in any premises or part thereof in which that
     person has an interest, gas supplied for use in the premises;
     or

       (b) sell, for use in any premises or part thereof in which that
            person has an interest, gas retailed for use in the premises
            by a gas retailer.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) A person who is not incorporated in Singapore and does not
have a place of business in Singapore may, without a licence, manage
or operate an onshore receiving facility as principal if —

(a) the person appoints a person who is incorporated in
     Singapore or has a place of business in Singapore to
     manage or operate the onshore receiving facility on the
     firstmentioned person’s behalf (other than as an
     employee); and

       (b) that person is licensed for the purpose of
            subsection (1)(e)(ii).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) A person may, without a licence, manage or operate an onshore
receiving facility on behalf of a principal, whether or not the person is
incorporated in Singapore or has a place of business in Singapore,
if —

(a) the person’s principal is incorporated in Singapore or has a
     place of business in Singapore; and

(b) the person’s principal is licensed for the purpose of
     subsection (1)(e)(ii).

                                                                                                 [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
23  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

(5) An order under subsection (1)(i) may provide for —

    (a) the application of the provisions of this Act to the activity
         specified in the order subject to such exceptions or
         modifications as may be specified in the order;

    (b) matters relating to the regulation of the activity specified,
         including the prescribing of fees and charges;

    (c) the conditions which may be included in a licence
        authorising the carrying on of the activity specified in
        the order; and

       (d) generally for giving full effect to or for carrying out the
            purposes of the order.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine
not exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Application for gas licence, etc.

 7.—(1) An application for a licence, an extension to a licence or an
exemption under this Part must —

       (a) be made in writing to the Authority and must be in such
            form as may be determined by the Authority; and

       (b) be accompanied by such information, document and fee as
            may be determined by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) In determining whether to grant or extend a licence to or for a
particular person, the Authority must consider the following:

       (a) the ability of that person to finance the carrying on of the
            particular activity;

       (b) the experience of that person in carrying on the activity,
            and that person’s ability to perform the duties which would
            be imposed on that person under this Act and the licence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             24

          (c) in the case of a gas retailer’s licence, in relation to that
              person —

          (i) the quantities of gas available, or which are
              anticipated to be available, to that person for retail
              purposes; and

          (ii) the sufficiency of rights held, or which are
               anticipated to be held, by that person to ship gas to
               premises for retail purposes;

(d) in the case of a gas importer’s licence, in relation to that
     person, the quantities of natural gas or liquefied natural gas
     available, or which are anticipated to be available, to that
     person for import;

          (e) whether or not that person is related to any gas licensee or
              any person exempted under section 8; and

      (f) the functions and duties of the Authority under section 3.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

(3) The Authority may grant or extend —

(a) for any or all of the purposes referred to in section 6(1)(a),
     a gas transporter’s licence;

(b) for the purpose referred to in section 6(1)(b), a gas
     transport agent’s licence;

          (c) for the purpose referred to in section 6(1)(c), a gas
              shipper’s licence;

(d) for the purpose referred to in section 6(1)(d), a gas
     retailer’s licence;

          (e) for any or all of the purposes referred to in section 6(1)(e),
              an onshore receiving facility operator’s licence;

          (f) for any or all of the purposes referred to in section 6(1)(f),
              an LNG terminal operator’s licence;

(g) for the purpose referred to in section 6(1)(g), a town gas
     producer’s licence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
25  Gas Act 2001                                              2020 Ed.

      (ga) for the purpose referred to in section 6(1)(ga), a gas
            importer’s licence (central import);

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

       (h) for any or all of the purposes referred to in section 6(1)(h),
            a gas importer’s licence (non-central import); and

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

        (i) for the purpose referred to in paragraph (i) of section 6(1),
            a licence for such activity as may be specified in any order
            made under that paragraph.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

 (4) A gas transporter’s licence granted or extended for the purpose
referred to in section 6(1)(a)(i) must specify the area to which the
licence relates, which area may include any part of an area specified
in an existing licence granted to another person under this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) A gas licence must not be granted to any person, if the grant of
the licence may, in the opinion of the Authority, give rise to a conflict
of interest in the discharge of any duty imposed on the person under
this Act, the Electricity Act 2001 or any other licence granted to the
person under this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) A gas transporter’s licence must not be granted to —

    (a) a gas retailer, gas shipper or town gas producer; or

       (b) a person who is the holder of a licence under
            section 9(1)(a), (d), (e) or (g) of the Electricity Act 2001.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) A gas transport agent’s licence must not be granted to a gas
retailer, gas shipper or town gas producer.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (8) A gas shipper’s licence must not be granted to a gas transporter
or gas transport agent.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (9) A gas retailer’s licence must not be granted to a gas transporter
or gas transport agent.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             26

 (10) Without affecting the application of section 6(3) and (4), an
onshore receiving facility operator’s licence must not be granted to
any person who is not incorporated in Singapore and does not have a
place of business in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (11) A town gas producer’s licence must not be granted to a gas
transporter or gas transport agent.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (11A) A gas importer’s licence (central import) must not be granted
to more than one person.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

 (11B) To avoid doubt, where a person holding a gas importer’s
licence (central import) provides gas to a prescribed generation entity
that is not a direct access customer, the provision is by way of a retail
of the gas.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

 (12) Every licence granted or extended under this Part continues in
force, unless it is revoked or suspended, for such period as may be
specified in the licence.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Exemption

 8.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
order in the Gazette, exempt any person or class of persons from
complying with section 6(1) for any specified period —

       (a) generally or to such an extent as may be specified in the
            order; and

       (b) unconditionally or subject to such conditions as may be
            specified in the order.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1)(b), the conditions of an
exemption may require any person carrying on any activity in
pursuance of the exemption —

       (a) to comply with any direction given by the Authority as to
            such matters as are specified in the exemption order or are
            of a description so specified;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
27  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    (b) to do or not to do such things as are specified in the
         exemption order or are of a description so specified, except
         insofar as the Authority consents to the person’s doing or
         not doing them; and

    (c) to refer for determination by the Authority such questions
        arising under the exemption as are specified in the
        exemption order or are of a description so specified.

 (3) If any condition of an exemption granted to a class of persons is
not complied with by any person of that class, the Authority may give
to that person a direction declaring that the exemption is revoked,
insofar as it relates to that person, to such extent and from such date as
may be specified in the direction.

 (4) An exemption order continues in force, unless it is revoked, for
such period as may be specified in the order.

 (5) In granting an exemption under this section, the Authority must
act in a manner so as not to discriminate between members of a
particular class.

Conditions of gas licences

 9.—(1) A gas licence may include such restrictions or conditions
(whether or not relating to the activities authorised by the gas licence)
as appear to the Authority to be requisite or expedient having regard
to the functions and duties of the Authority under section 3.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a gas licence may include
conditions —

       (a) restricting the activities which the gas licensee is permitted
            to carry out;

       (b) requiring payments to be made to the Authority on the
            grant, or during the currency, of a gas licence or both, of
            such amount as may be determined by or under the gas
            licence;

       (c) requiring the gas licensee to furnish specified persons or
            the Authority in such manner and at such times as may be
            specified with such information as appears to the Authority
            to be requisite or expedient for the purpose of facilitating

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             28

          the exercise by those persons or the Authority of the
          functions or duties assigned to them or as may be
          reasonably required for that purpose;

(d) requiring the gas licensee to furnish to the Authority
     financial information including regulatory accounts in
     respect of such period and on such basis as may be
     specified;

          (e) controlling, limiting or restricting —

          (i) the ownership or control, directly or indirectly, of the
              gas licensee;

          (ii) the creation, holding or disposal of any interest in
               shares in the gas licensee or in any person holding
               shares in the gas licensee; or

          (iii) any other interest in the licensed gas business or
                undertaking of the gas licensee or any part thereof;

          (f) requiring the gas licensee to comply with any direction,
              determination, order or decision of the Authority as to such
              matters specified in its gas licence or are of a description so
              specified;

(g) requiring the gas licensee to do or not to do such things as
     are specified in its gas licence or are of a description so
     specified, except insofar as the Authority consents to its
     doing or not doing them, as the case may be;

(h) requiring the gas licensee to comply with any code of
     practice and standard of performance applicable to the gas
     licensee;

          (i) providing for the determination by the Authority of such
              questions arising under the gas licence, or under any
              document specified or described in the gas licence;

          (j) imposing requirements by reference to designation,
              acceptance or approval by the Authority;

          (k) providing for references in the conditions of the gas licence
              to any document specified or described in the gas licence to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
29  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    operate as references to that document as revised or
    reissued from time to time;

    (l) providing that the conditions of the gas licence have effect
        or cease to have effect at such times and in such
        circumstances as may be determined by or under the
        conditions;

    (m) requiring the gas licensee to provide a performance bond,
         guarantee or any other form of security on such terms and
         conditions as the Authority may determine; and

       (n) where the gas licensee is not incorporated or does not have
            a place of business in Singapore, requiring the gas licensee
            to appoint, and notify the Authority of, a person who has a
            residential address or a place of business in Singapore to
            accept service on behalf of the gas licensee of any notice,
            order or document required or authorised by this Act to be
            given or served on the gas licensee.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a gas transporter’s licence may
include conditions —

    (a) requiring the gas transporter to enter into an arrangement
         with any person for —

    (i) the conveyance of gas through a gas pipeline or gas
        pipeline network owned by, or under the
        management or control of, the gas transporter; and

    (ii) such other purposes as may be specified in the gas
         transporter’s licence,

    (a) on such terms as may be approved by the Authority;

    (b) identifying specified agreements or classes of agreements
         which the gas transporter may only enter into on such
         terms as may be approved by the Authority;

    (c) pertaining to the transmission and distribution of gas;

    (d) requiring the gas transporter to have in place procedures to
         be followed in the event of a public emergency and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             30

          requiring it to maintain a national gas emergency service
          for the gas supply system;

          (e) requiring the gas transporter to appoint, at such intervals
              and on such terms as the Authority may direct, an
              independent technical auditor for the purposes specified
              in any such condition;

          (f) requiring the gas transporter to interconnect one or more
              gas pipelines or gas pipeline networks or to convert a gas
              pipeline network to allow for the conveyance of natural gas
              through that gas pipeline network;

(g) pertaining to the prices to be charged by the gas transporter
     for use of a gas pipeline or gas pipeline network owned by,
     or under the management or control of, the gas transporter
     and the methods by which such charges are to be
     determined; and

       (h) requiring the gas transporter to establish and maintain
            arrangements with respect to the provision of special
            services for meeting the needs of consumers who are
            chronically sick, disabled or elderly or as appear to the
            Authority to be requisite or expedient having regard to
            those duties.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Without limiting subsection (1), a gas retailer’s licence may
include conditions —

(a) requiring the gas retailer to secure such rights for the
     conveyance of gas through a gas pipeline or gas pipeline
     network owned by, or under the management or control of,
     a gas transporter as are necessary for the purposes of
     complying with obligations owed by the gas retailer to
     consumers connected to such gas pipeline or gas pipeline
     network;

(b) requiring the gas retailer to establish and maintain
     arrangements with respect to the provision of special
     services for meeting the needs of consumers who are
     chronically sick, disabled or elderly or as appear to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
31  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    Authority to be requisite or expedient having regard to
    those duties;

    (c) requiring the gas retailer to act as a retailer of last resort in
        the event of the failure or default of another gas retailer;

    (d) pertaining to converting a gas pipeline network to allow for
         the conveyance of natural gas through a gas pipeline
         network; and

       (e) pertaining to the prices to be charged by the gas retailer for
            the retailing of gas and the methods by which such charges
            are determined.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) Without limiting subsection (1), an onshore receiving facility
operator’s licence may include conditions —

    (a) requiring the onshore receiving facility operator to —

    (i) have in place procedures for compliance by the
        operator in the event of a public emergency; and

    (ii) have emergency response capabilities; and

       (b) requiring the onshore receiving facility operator to appoint,
            at such intervals and on such terms as the Authority may
            direct, an independent technical auditor for the purposes
            specified in any such condition.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) Without limiting subsection (1), an LNG terminal operator’s
licence may include conditions —

    (a) pertaining to the type, specifications and use of the LNG
         terminal;

    (b) requiring the LNG terminal operator to —

    (i) have in place procedures for compliance by the
        operator in the event of a public emergency; and

    (ii) have emergency response capabilities;

    (c) pertaining to the quantities of natural gas or liquefied
        natural gas which may be received, stored or processed at
        the LNG terminal;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             32

(d) regulating the terms and conditions of any service provided
     at the LNG terminal; and

       (e) requiring the LNG terminal operator to appoint, at such
            intervals and on such terms as the Authority may direct, an
            independent technical auditor for the purposes specified in
            any such condition.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) Without limiting subsection (1), a gas importer’s licence may
include a condition controlling the quantities of natural gas or
liquefied natural gas to be imported.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (8) Without limiting subsection (1) or (7), a gas importer’s licence
(central import) may include conditions —

(a) requiring the gas importer to obtain (by import or
     otherwise) gas for use by any prescribed generation
     entity from sources that are specified in such condition
     or are of a description so specified, except insofar as the
     Authority consents otherwise;

(b) requiring any arrangement under which the gas importer
     obtains (by import or otherwise) such gas —

          (i) to be for a maximum or minimum period —

          (A) specified in such condition, except insofar as
               the Authority consents otherwise; or

          (B) as may be approved by the Authority;

          (ii) to be for an amount of gas —

          (A) that is specified in such condition or
               determined in the manner or method
               specified in the condition, except insofar as
               the Authority consents otherwise; or

          (B) as may be approved by the Authority; and

          (iii) to include or not include the terms that are specified
                in such condition or are of a description so specified,
                except insofar as the Authority consents otherwise,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
33  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    or to be on such terms as may be approved by the
    Authority;

    (c) requiring the gas importer to include or not include in its
        contract to provide gas to any person (whether or not a
        prescribed generation entity) any terms that are specified in
        the condition or of a description so specified, except
        insofar as the Authority consents otherwise, but not any
        term or condition prescribed under section 103(2)(ka) of
        the Electricity Act 2001;

    (d) without limiting paragraph (c), pertaining to the prices to
         be charged by the gas importer for gas provided by it to any
         person, and the methods by which such charges are
         determined;

    (e) without limiting paragraphs (a) to (d), requiring the gas
        importer to obtain the prior approval of the Authority to
        enter into any contract, and for any modification, or
        renewal or extension, of any contract entered into by it —

    (i) to obtain gas (by import or otherwise); or

    (ii) to provide gas to a prescribed generation entity or
         any other person (for the purpose of generating
         electricity or otherwise);

    (f) requiring the gas importer to maintain a national stockpile
        of gas; and

       (g) requiring the gas importer to have in place procedures to be
            followed in the event of a public emergency (including the
            manner of distribution of gas out of the national stockpile
            of gas), and for the procedures to be approved by the
            Authority.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

 (9) The reference in subsection (8)(e) to a modification, or renewal
or extension, of a contract includes a modification, renewal or
extension made on or after the date of commencement of section 29
of the Energy Transition Measures and Other Amendments Act 2024,
to a contract entered into before that date.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             34

Prohibition on transfer of gas licence without consent of
Authority

 10.—(1) No gas licence may be transferred without the prior
written consent of the Authority.

(2) Any purported transfer of a gas licence is void.

Licensing of gas service worker

 11.—(1) No person may —

       (a) carry out or offer or undertake to carry out any gas service
            work; or

       (b) advertise or otherwise hold himself or herself out, or
            conduct himself or herself, in any way or by any means as a
            gas service worker or as a person who carries out or who is
            qualified by any written law to carry out gas service work,

unless he or she is registered as a professional engineer and has a
valid practising certificate under the Professional Engineers
Act 1991, or holds a valid gas service worker licence in respect of
the specific class of work being carried out or to be carried out.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) This section does not apply to a gas transporter, a gas transport
agent, or an employee of a gas transporter or gas transport agent.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Application for gas service worker licence

 12.—(1) Any person who wishes to be a licensed gas service
worker must apply to the Authority.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made in such
manner or form as the Authority may determine and must be
accompanied by the prescribed fee and such documents and
particulars as the Authority may determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
35  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (3) The Authority may, in its discretion, license a gas service
worker either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as it
thinks fit, or may refuse to license him or her.

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary or revoke any of the
existing conditions of a gas service worker licence or impose new
conditions or suspend or cancel such licence.

 (5) The Authority may license gas service workers under different
classes for different types of gas service work.

 (6) Any person holding a gas service worker licence granted under
section 100 of the Public Utilities Act (Cap. 261, 1996 Revised
Edition) in force immediately before 14 February 2008 is, unless the
Authority directs otherwise, deemed to be a licensed gas service
worker under this Act.

Engagement of unlicensed gas service worker prohibited

 13. Any person who employs or instructs any person who is not a
licensed gas service worker to carry out or cause to be carried out any
gas service work shall be guilty of an offence.

                                    PART 4

 MODIFICATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF GAS LICENCES

Power to modify gas licences

 14.—(1) The Authority may modify any condition of any gas
licence in accordance with this Part.

 (2) The Authority must not modify any condition of a gas licence
unless the Authority is satisfied that the modification is requisite or
expedient having regard to the functions and duties of the Authority
under section 3.

Notice of proposal to modify

 15.—(1) Where the Authority proposes to modify any condition of
a gas licence, the Authority must give notice to the gas licensee and
other gas licensees likely to be affected by the proposed
modification —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             36

(a) stating that the Authority proposes to make a modification
     to the condition of the gas licence;

(b) setting out the nature and effect of the modification;

          (c) stating the reasons why the Authority proposes to make the
              modification, including whether the need for the
              modification was the subject of a prior representation
              made by a third party or the affected gas licensee; and

(d) specifying the period (not being less than 28 days from the
     date of the service of the notice on the gas licensee) within
     which representations with respect to the proposed
     modification may be made.

 (2) Where the Authority receives any written representation under
subsection (1), the Authority must consider such representation and
may —

(a) reject the representation; or

(b) withdraw or amend the proposed modification in
     accordance with the representation or otherwise.

Modification

 16.—(1) Upon the expiry of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
of section 15(1) and upon the consideration of any representation
received under that paragraph, the Authority may, by issuing a written
direction to the gas licensee, modify the condition of the gas licence,
and, subject to subsection (2), the modification is effective from such
date as the Authority may specify in the direction.

 (2) A modification made in accordance with this Part may not be
effective earlier than —

       (a) the end of the period referred to in section 15(1)(d) unless
            the gas licensee consents to the modification being
            effective prior to the end of such period; or

       (b) the date of the end of the period referred to in section 17 or
            the date on which the Appeal Panel directs under
            section 85(8) that the modification should be made,
            whichever is later.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
37  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Appeal against modification

 17. Any gas licensee aggrieved by a decision of the Authority to
modify its gas licence may, within 14 days of receipt of a direction
made under section 16(1), appeal to the Appeal Panel under Part 10.

Power to revoke or suspend gas licence

 18.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) a gas licensee has gone into compulsory liquidation or
            voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
            amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (b) a gas licensee has made any arrangement, compromise or
            composition with any of its creditors;

       (c) any circumstance specified in a gas licensee’s gas licence
            giving rise to the Authority’s power to revoke or suspend
            the licence exists;

       (d) a gas licensee has not complied with any direction or
            requirement issued by the Authority under section 19; or

       (e) the public interest or security of Singapore requires,

the Authority may, by written notice and without payment of any
compensation, revoke or suspend the gas licence for such period as
the Authority thinks fit.

 (2) In the case of subsection (1)(c) or (d), the Authority may further
require the payment by the gas licensee of a financial penalty, in
addition to any sanction imposed under section 19, of an amount not
exceeding 10% of the annual turnover of the gas licensee’s licensed
gas business ascertained from its latest audited accounts, or an
amount not exceeding $1 million, whichever is higher.

Enforcement

 19. If the Authority is satisfied that a gas licensee is contravening, is
likely to contravene or has contravened any condition of its gas
licence, any provision of any code of practice or standard of
performance applicable to the gas licensee, any provision of this Act,
or any direction (including a direction under paragraph (a)) issued by

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             38

the Minister or the Authority to, or applicable to, the gas licensee, the
Authority may by written notice to the gas licensee do one or more of
the following:

(a) direct the gas licensee to do or not to do such things as are
     specified in such direction;

(b) require the gas licensee to provide a performance bond,
     guarantee or other form of security on such terms and
     conditions as the Authority may determine; and

      (c) where the gas licensee is contravening or has so
           contravened such condition, provision or direction,
           require the payment of a financial penalty of an amount
           not exceeding 10% of the annual turnover of the gas
           licensee’s licensed gas business ascertained from its latest
           audited accounts, or an amount not exceeding $1 million,
           whichever is the higher.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

20. [Repealed by Act 24 of 2007]

                                    PART 5

                          GAS TRANSPORTERS

General duties of gas transporter

 21.—(1) It is the duty of a gas transporter —

       (a) to develop and maintain a safe, efficient, reliable and
            economical gas pipeline or gas pipeline network for the
            conveyance of gas;

       (b) subject to paragraph (a), to comply, so far as it is
            economical to do so, with any reasonable request to
            connect to that gas pipeline or gas pipeline network, and
            convey gas by means of that gas pipeline or gas pipeline
            network to, any premises; and

       (c) to carry on its licensed gas business at all times in such a
            manner so as not to prevent, restrict or otherwise hinder the
            development of competition in any gas market in
            Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
39  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (2) It is the duty of a gas transporter to avoid undue preference or
undue discrimination —

    (a) in the terms on which it undertakes the conveyance of gas
         by any gas pipeline or gas pipeline network owned by, or
         under the management or control of, the gas transporter; or

    (b) in the connection of premises to such a gas pipeline or gas
         pipeline network.

                                                                                                     [24/2007]

Duty to connect

 22.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a gas transporter
must, on the request of the owner or occupier of any premises,
provide and install a gas service isolation valve, provide and lay a gas
service pipe from the relevant gas main to the gas service isolation
valve and connect such premises to the relevant gas main.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Where any connection is made under subsection (1), the costs of
providing and installing the gas service isolation valve, providing and
laying the gas service pipe and making the connection may only be
recovered by the gas transporter from the owner or occupier of the
premises (as the case may be) to the extent that the costs have not
been previously recovered from any other person.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Where any premises have been connected to a relevant gas main
under —

       (a) this Act;

       (b) any written law which has been repealed; or

       (c) any arrangement entered into by the owner or occupier of
            the premises prior to 11 June 2007,

the gas transporter must maintain the connection until such time as it
is no longer required by the owner or occupier of the premises at that
time.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Nothing in subsection (1) or (3) requires the gas transporter to
connect, or maintain a connection of, a relevant gas main to any
premises, if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             40

(a) the gas transporter is unable to do so by circumstances
     beyond its control; or

       (b) there exist circumstances, which by reason of the gas
            transporter doing so, would involve a danger to the public.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) If the connection, or the maintenance of the connection, of any
premises to a relevant gas main under this section —

(a) will result in a new or an increased supply of gas to those
     premises; and

(b) the new or increased supply of gas cannot be made without
     the laying of a new, or the enlargement of an existing, gas
     main or the undertaking of other works related to the
     conveyance of gas to those premises,

the gas transporter may refuse to make or maintain the connection
until such time as the owner or occupier of those premises when the
new or increased supply is being required enters into an agreement
with the gas transporter for the payment of a reasonable amount to the
gas transporter having regard to —

          (c) the costs to be incurred by the gas transporter in laying or
              enlarging the relevant gas main or undertaking other works
              related to the conveyance of gas to those premises; and

       (d) the extent to which such costs can be recovered from other
            persons.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) The owner or occupier of any premises must grant the gas
transporter rights of access to lay, install, maintain, repair, alter or
remove any gas service isolation valve or gas service pipe in the
premises of the owner or occupier, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Power to require security

 23.—(1) Where any person requires a connection to be made under
section 22(1), a gas transporter may require the person to give it
reasonable security for the payment to it of all costs which may
become due to it in respect of the provision and installation of the gas

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
41  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

service isolation valve, the provision and laying of the gas service
pipe and the making of the connection.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) If the person fails to give such security, or the security given has
become invalid or insufficient, the gas transporter may refuse to
provide and install the gas service isolation valve, provide and lay the
gas service pipe or make the connection for so long as the failure or
insufficiency continues.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Power to recover expenditure

 24. Except as otherwise provided in section 22, where any gas main
or gas plant is procured or provided by a gas transporter, the gas
transporter may require any expenses reasonably incurred in
procuring or providing such gas main or gas plant to be defrayed
by any person requiring the connection to be made to such extent as is
reasonable in all the circumstances.

Prices

 25.—(1) Without affecting section 38, the prices to be charged by a
gas transporter and to be paid by gas shippers for the conveyance of
gas through a gas pipeline or gas pipeline network owned by, or under
the management or control of, the gas transporter must be in
accordance with such rates as may be established from time to time
by the gas transporter in accordance with the conditions of its gas
transporter’s licence.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) The prices established by a gas transporter under subsection (1)
must be published in such manner as will secure adequate publicity.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) In establishing prices under subsection (1), a gas transporter
must not show undue preference or exercise undue discrimination as
between gas shippers similarly situated and having gas conveyed, or
wishing to have gas conveyed, through a gas pipeline or gas pipeline
network owned by, or under the management or control of, the gas
transporter.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.                   Gas Act 2001                            42

Power to fell trees, etc.

 26.—(1) Where, in the opinion of a gas transporter, any tree or
vegetation near any part of a gas pipeline, gas pipeline network or gas
plant owned by, or under the management or control of, the gas
transporter or any internal pipe causes or is likely to cause damage to
such pipeline, pipeline network, plant or pipe, the gas transporter may
cause the tree or vegetation to be felled, lopped, cleared or dealt with
in such manner as will, in its opinion, prevent the damage.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) A gas transporter is, in the exercise of its powers under
subsection (1), subject to the provisions of the National Parks Board
Act 1996 and the Parks and Trees Act 2005.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Where any tree or vegetation which has been felled, lopped,
cleared or otherwise dealt with under subsection (1) was in existence
before the gas pipeline, gas pipeline network or gas plant was placed,
erected or installed, the gas transporter must, subject to
subsections (4) and (5), pay to any person adversely affected such
sum of money as may be agreed between the gas transporter and the
person by way of compensation.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) No further compensation may be paid for the felling, lopping or
clearing of any tree or vegetation where the action is necessary for the
maintenance of a gas pipeline, gas pipeline network or gas plant
owned by, or under the management or control of, a gas transporter
and the tree or vegetation has grown or has been allowed to grow
since the payment of compensation under subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) No compensation is payable by a gas transporter under
subsection (3) in respect of any tree or vegetation within 20 metres
of the centre line of any road constructed or maintained by the
Government or by any public authority unless it is proved that the tree
or vegetation was in existence prior to the construction of the road.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) The owner or occupier of any land must, before felling, lopping
or clearing any tree or vegetation adjacent to a gas pipeline, gas
pipeline network or gas plant owned by, or under the management or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
43  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

control of, a gas transporter, give the gas transporter 14 days’ notice
in writing of the intention of the owner or occupier (as the case may
be) to do so and must take such reasonable precautions as the gas
transporter may require for the protection of such pipeline, pipeline
network or plant.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) If any such owner or occupier fails to give notice under
subsection (6), or having given notice fails to take any such
reasonable precautions as the gas transporter may have required,
the owner or occupier is liable to pay the gas transporter the
reasonable cost and expense incurred by the gas transporter in respect
of any damage caused to any such gas pipeline, gas pipeline network
or gas plant, subject to the Authority’s approval as to the amount of
the cost or expense in the case of any dispute.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (8) If any tree or vegetation is felled, lopped or cleared upon any
land adjacent to a gas pipeline, gas pipeline network or gas plant
owned by, or under the management or control of, a gas transporter, it
is presumed until the contrary is proved that the tree or vegetation was
felled, lopped or cleared by the owner or occupier of the land or by the
employees or agents of the owner or occupier (as the case may be)
acting as such.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Works

 27.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a gas transporter may,
in order to carry out the activities which it is authorised by its gas
transporter’s licence to carry out —

       (a) install in, on, over, under, upon, along or across any land,
            premises, street or waters and inspect, maintain, adjust,
            repair, alter, restore, replace or remove any gas pipeline,
            gas plant or gas fitting which is or is to be part of its gas
            pipeline network; and

       (b) carry out such activities as are necessary or incidental to
            the activities falling within subsection (1)(a), including —

               (i) excavating any land, street or drain;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             44

          (ii) tunnelling or boring under any land, street, sewer or
               drain;

          (iii) removing or using all earth and materials in or under
                any land, street, sewer or drain;

          (iv) erecting or placing any gas plant in or under any land
               or street; and

          (v) any other action that may be necessary to render all
               such pipes, plant and apparatus safe and efficient,

and must pay to any person who has suffered damage or loss of value
to the person’s property that may be caused by such activity such sum
as may be agreed by between the gas transporter and the person by
way of compensation.

 (2) Any compensation payable under subsection (1) may include an
annual payment for land or any immovable property used for the gas
transporter’s purpose.

 (3) All works referred to in subsection (1), including the upper
surface or covering, must be constructed of such materials and must
be maintained by the gas transporter in such a manner as not to be a
source of danger, whether by reason of inequality of surface or
otherwise.

 (4) A gas transporter does not acquire any right other than that of a
user only in respect of any land or premises in, on, over, under, upon,
along or across which the gas transporter places any gas pipeline, gas
pipeline network or gas plant under this section.

 (5) Except in the case of an emergency arising from any fault in any
gas main, gas service pipe or gas plant, no works referred to in
subsection (1) may be executed without the giving of 14 days’ notice
to the owner or occupier of the land stating as fully and accurately as
possible the nature and extent of the acts intended to be done.

 (6) The owner or occupier of the land may, within 14 days of the
receipt of the notice referred to in subsection (5), lodge a written
objection with the Authority and the Authority must specify a date to
inquire into any such objection.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
45  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (7) If no objection is lodged within the period specified in
subsection (6), the gas transporter may on expiry of the period
enter on the land and do all or any of the acts specified in the notice
given under subsection (5).

 (8) If an objection is lodged and is not withdrawn before the date
fixed for the inquiry referred to in subsection (6), the Authority must
hold the inquiry, giving each party an opportunity to be heard.

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), upon the conclusion of the inquiry,
the Authority may, either unconditionally or subject to such terms and
conditions as it thinks fit, authorise any of the acts mentioned in the
notice given under subsection (5) to be carried out.

 (10) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Authority under
this section may, within 14 days of the conclusion of the inquiry,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

 (11) A gas transporter must do as little damage as possible in the
exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (1) and must make
good any damage done in the exercise of those powers.

 (12) Where any dispute arises as to whether a gas transporter has
sufficiently made good any damage done in the exercise of the
powers conferred by subsection (1), the dispute —

    (a) may be referred to the Authority by either party; and

    (b) must, on such a reference, be determined by the Authority,
         whose decision is final and conclusive between the parties.

 (13) A gas transporter must exercise the powers conferred by
subsection (1) in such manner as will secure that nothing which it
installs or keeps installed in, on, over, under, upon, along or across
any land, premises, street or waters becomes a source of danger to the
public.

 (14) A gas transporter is not, when exercising the powers conferred
by subsection (1), liable for or required to pay any person any fee,
charge or expense for the right to enter or use any land or premises.

 (15) A gas transporter must not, without the prior written consent of
a statutory board or Government authority, authorise any person to
enter or use any land belonging to the statutory board or Government

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             46

authority for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by
subsection (1).

Provision of convenient ways, etc.

 28.—(1) A gas transporter must, in executing any works under
section 27, provide and make a sufficient number of convenient ways,
watercourses, drains and channels to replace those that are
interrupted, damaged or rendered useless by reason of the
execution of the works.

 (2) A gas transporter must pay to any person who suffers damage or
loss of value to the person’s property as a result of the gas
transporter’s actions under subsection (1), such sum as may be
agreed by between the gas transporter and the person by way of
compensation.

Maintenance, etc., of gas service pipes and gas installations

 29.—(1) A gas transporter must carry out any necessary work of
maintenance, repair or renewal of —

(a) any part of a gas service pipe from a gas main up to a gas
     service isolation valve; and

(b) that gas service isolation valve,

by which gas is conveyed to a consumer’s premises, whether or not
the gas service pipe was supplied and laid at the gas transporter’s
expense.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) The cost of any work carried out under subsection (1) is to be
paid as follows:

(a) in the case of work made necessary by any intentional or
     negligent act of the consumer, by the consumer if the gas
     transporter requires the consumer to pay;

(b) in any other case, by the gas transporter.

                                                                   [24/2007]

 (3) The Authority may, from time to time, prescribe by order in the
Gazettesuch person or class of persons to be responsible for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
47  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

inspection, maintenance, repair or renewal of any part of a gas
installation.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/09/2025]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

 (4) The gas transporter must —

       (a) establish and implement a programme for regular and
            periodic inspections of any part of a gas installation and
            provide in the programme, in relation to each such
            inspection, whether this is the responsibility of the gas
            transporter or any other person prescribed under
            subsection (3);

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/09/2025]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

       (b) where any inspection is the responsibility of any person
            prescribed under subsection (3) (other than the gas
            transporter), notify the person of the person’s
            responsibility to ensure that the inspection is carried out;
            and

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/09/2025]

       (c) where any maintenance, repair or renewal is necessary
            following any inspection by the gas transporter or the
            person notified under paragraph (b), notify the person
            prescribed under subsection (3) to be responsible for the
            maintenance, repair or renewal of that part of the gas
            installation or gas service pipe (if the person is not the gas
            transporter), of the person’s responsibility to ensure that
            the maintenance, repair or renewal is carried out.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

                                                                               [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/09/2025]

 (5) Where any person prescribed under subsection (3) is
responsible under subsection (4)(b) or (c) for ensuring that any
inspection, maintenance, repair or renewal is carried out, the
inspection, maintenance, repair or renewal is to be carried out at
the expense of the person.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             48

 (6) Any person prescribed under subsection (3) who fails to carry
out the person’s responsibility under subsection (4)(b) or (c) shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

Relocation of gas main or gas service pipe

 30.—(1) Where a gas main or gas service pipe has been laid in, on,
over, under, upon, along or across any land by a gas transporter and
the owner or occupier of the land desires to use the land in a manner
which renders it necessary or convenient that such gas main or gas
service pipe should be moved, the owner or occupier (as the case may
be) may request the gas transporter to move the pipe accordingly.

 (2) A gas transporter must, at the request of the owner or occupier
under subsection (1), relocate the gas service pipe if it is satisfied that
such relocation is reasonable and the owner or occupier complies
with such terms and conditions as the gas transporter may impose,
including terms and conditions relating to the payment by the owner
or occupier of all reasonable costs and expenses necessary for the
relocation.

 (3) Where a gas main or gas service pipe has been laid in, on, over,
under, upon, along or across any land by a gas transporter and the gas
main or gas service pipe is no longer in use by the occupier or any
other person for the purposes of the supply of gas, or by the gas
transporter for the conveyance of gas, the gas transporter may of its
own volition or must at the reasonable request of the owner, remove
the gas main or gas service pipe from the land at its own expense.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3), “owner” includes any person
having a leasehold interest with an unexpired term of not less than
7 years.

Removal of obstruction over existing gas main, etc.

 31.—(1) No person may build, erect or construct anything over any
existing gas transmission pipeline, gas main or gas service pipe
owned by, or under the management or control of, a gas transporter
without the approval of the gas transporter.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
49  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (2) Any owner or occupier whose premises are found to have any
building or structure built, erected or constructed over an existing gas
main or gas service pipe must have the gas main or gas service pipe
relocated or diverted away by the gas transporter from under the
building or structure.

 (3) The costs arising from such relocation or diversion is to be
borne —

    (a) by the owner or occupier to the extent that the owner or
         occupier benefits from such diversion or relocation, or
         where the building or structure was built, erected or
         constructed by the owner or occupier in contravention of
         subsection (1); and

    (b) by the gas transporter in all other circumstances.

 (4) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

Carrying out of earthworks within vicinity of gas plant or gas
pipe

 32.—(1) Subject to this section, no person may commence or carry
out, or cause or permit the commencement or carrying out of, any
earthworks within the vicinity of any gas plant or gas pipe in a gas
pipeline network owned by, or under the management or control of, a
gas transporter unless the person —

       (a) has given to the gas transporter not less than 7 days’ notice
            in writing of the date on which it is proposed to commence
            the earthworks;

       (b) has obtained from the gas transporter the necessary
            information on the location of the gas plant or gas pipe; and

       (c) has consulted the gas transporter on the steps to be taken to
            prevent the gas plant or gas pipe from being damaged
            while the earthworks are being carried out.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             50

 (2) The Authority may, if it thinks fit in any particular case, modify
the period for which a notice under subsection (1)(a) is to be given to
a gas transporter.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) It is the duty of the person who commences or carries out, or
causes or permits the commencement or carrying out of, any
earthworks referred to in subsection (1) —

(a) to comply with all reasonable requirements of the gas
     transporter for the prevention of damage to the gas plant or
     gas pipe;

(b) to ensure that reasonable precautions are taken when such
     earthworks are being carried out to prevent any damage to
     the gas plant or gas pipe; and

       (c) to allow the gas transporter reasonable access to the work
            site for the purpose of inspecting or taking any necessary
            measures to protect the gas plant or gas pipe.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) It is the duty of the gas transporter to whom a notice under
subsection (1)(a) has been given —

(a) to promptly inform the person giving the notice of the
     location of the gas plant or gas pipe, and to provide the
     person with such other information as may be necessary to
     enable the person to ascertain the exact location of the gas
     plant or gas pipe;

(b) to advise the person on the precautions to be taken to
     prevent damage to the gas plant or gas pipe; and

       (c) to take all such measures at the work site as may be
            reasonable and necessary for the protection of the gas plant
            or gas pipe and, in so doing, the gas transporter must have
            regard to the potential risks and dangers that can arise from
            any damage to the gas plant or gas pipe.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) Nothing in subsection (1) prohibits a person from commencing
or carrying out, or causing or permitting the commencement or
carrying out of, any earthworks where the person has reasonable

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
51                          Gas Act 2001                     2020 Ed.

cause to believe that it is necessary to do so in the interest of public or
private safety.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5A) Subsection (1) does not prohibit a gas transporter from
commencing or carrying out earthworks within the vicinity of any gas
plant or gas pipe in a gas pipeline network owned by, or under the
management or control of, the gas transporter.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (6) The person referred to in subsection (5) must, as soon as
practicable but not more than 24 hours after the earthworks have been
commenced or carried out, give to the gas transporter written notice
stating the nature and extent of those earthworks.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (3) or (6) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), in any proceedings for an offence
under subsection (7), it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

    (a) that the person took all reasonable steps to discharge the
         person’s duty under subsection (1) or (3), as the case may
         be; or

       (b) that the person took all reasonable precautions and
            exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of
            the offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (9) If in any proceedings for any offence under subsection (7), the
defence involves acting on information supplied by any of the
following:

    (a) a gas transporter;

    (b) any person to whom any infrastructure described in
         subsection (10) belongs or that manages or controls such
         infrastructure,

then the person charged is not, without permission of the court,
entitled to rely on that defence unless the person charged has, within

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             52

14 clear days before the hearing, served on the prosecutor a written
notice giving such information as was then in the possession of the
person charged identifying or assisting in the identification of the
person who supplied the person charged with the information.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (10) This section applies to any infrastructure (including valve
chambers, pipe jacking sleeves, concrete casings and rock armour)
housing or intended to house any gas transmission pipeline, as it
applies to any gas plant or gas pipe in a gas pipeline network owned
by, or under the management or control of, a gas transporter, and for
this purpose, a reference to a gas transporter in this section is a
reference to the person to whom the infrastructure belongs or that
manages or controls the infrastructure.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Damage to gas plant or gas pipe

 32A.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) removes, destroys or damages any gas plant or gas pipe
            which is part of a gas pipeline network owned by, or under
            the management or control of, a gas licensee;

       (b) causes or permits the removal, destruction or damage of
            such gas plant or gas pipe; or

       (c) in any way other than by paragraph (a) or (b), wilfully or
            recklessly hinders or prevents such gas plant or gas pipe
            from being used or operated in the manner in which it is
            intended to be used or operated,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (2) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]

 (3) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1)(a) or (b),
it is a defence for the person charged to prove that the person took all

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
53                          Gas Act 2001                     2020 Ed.

reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the
commission of the offence.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (5) If in any proceedings for any offence under subsection (1)(a) or
(b), the defence involves acting on information supplied by any of the
following:

    (a) a gas transporter;

    (b) any person to whom any infrastructure described in
         subsection (7) belongs or that manages or controls such
         infrastructure,

then the person charged is not, without permission of the court,
entitled to rely on that defence unless the person charged has, within
14 clear days before the hearing, served on the prosecutor a written
notice giving such information as was then in the possession of the
person charged identifying or assisting in the identification of the
person who supplied the person charged with the information.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (6) A person (A) may apprehend any other person (B) if B within
A’s view commits an offence under this section and must, on such
apprehension, hand over B so apprehended to a police officer without
unreasonable delay.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) This section applies to any infrastructure (including valve
chambers, pipe jacking sleeves, concrete casings and rock armour)
housing or intended to house any gas transmission pipeline, as it
applies to any gas plant or gas pipe which is part of a gas pipeline
network owned by, or under the management or control of, a gas
licensee, and for this purpose, a reference to a gas licensee in this
section is a reference to the person to whom the infrastructure belongs
or that manages or controls the infrastructure.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             54

Damage to submarine gas pipelines

32B. Any person who wilfully, recklessly or negligently —

(a) does any act, or permits or causes any act to be done, which
     damages or is likely to damage —

          (i) any submarine gas pipeline in the territorial waters of
              Singapore that is owned by, or under the
              management or control of, a gas licensee; or

      (ii) any infrastructure (including valve chambers, pipe
            jacking sleeves, concrete casings and rock armour)
            housing or intended to house any submarine gas
            pipeline in the territorial waters of Singapore; or

                                                                    [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

(b) omits to do anything required to prevent any damage to
     such submarine gas pipeline or infrastructure,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $2 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Special administration order

 33.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister
made under section 34(1) in relation to a gas licensee directing that,
during the period for which the order is in force, all or any of the
affairs, business and property of that gas licensee is to be managed
directly or indirectly by the Authority —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes of such an order
            set out in subsection (2); and

       (b) in a manner which protects the respective interests of the
            shareholders and creditors of that gas licensee.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (2) The purposes referred to in subsection (1)(a) are —

       (a) the security or reliability of the supply of gas to the public;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
55  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    (b) the survival of the gas licensee, or the whole or part of its
         business or undertaking for which it is authorised by its
         licence to carry on, as a going concern;

    (c) the transfer to another company, or (with respect to
        different parts of the area to which the gas licensee’s
        licence relates, or different parts of its business or
        undertaking) to 2 or more different companies, as a
        going concern, of such of the gas licensee’s undertakings
        as is necessary to transfer in order to ensure that the
        functions and duties which have been vested in the gas
        licensee by virtue of its licence may be properly carried
        out; or

       (d) the carrying out of the functions and duties which have
            been vested in the gas licensee pending the making of the
            transfer and the vesting of those functions and duties in the
            other company or companies.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (3) The Minister may make regulations for giving effect to this
section and section 34, including regulations governing the transfer of
the gas licensee’s business or undertaking referred to in
subsection (2)(c), and making provision for applying, omitting or
modifying provisions of Parts 7 and 9 of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 where a special
administration order is made.

                                                                                    [24/2007; 40/2018; 43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 29/01/2022]

Power to make special administration order, etc.

 34.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the Authority,
the Minister is satisfied that any one or more of the grounds specified
in subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to a gas licensee, the Minister
may make any one or more of the following orders:

       (a) a special administration order in relation to the gas
            licensee;

       (b) an order requiring the gas licensee to immediately take any
            action or do or not do any act or thing in relation to that part

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             56

          of its business or undertaking to which its gas licence
          relates as the Minister may consider necessary;

      (c) an order appointing a person to advise the gas licensee on
           the proper conduct of that part of its business or
           undertaking to which its gas licence relates.

                                                                                             [24/2007; 43/2018]

(2) The grounds referred to in subsection (1) are —

(a) the gas licensee is or is likely to be unable to pay its debts;

(b) the occurrence of a public emergency;

          (c) the Minister considers it in the interest of the security or
              reliability of the supply of gas to the public; or

       (d) the Minister otherwise considers it in the public interest.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (3) Notice of any application under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Authority to such persons and in such manner as
may be determined by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Any order made by the Minister under subsection (1) must be
published in such manner as will secure adequate publicity.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (5) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a gas licensee is unable to pay
its debts if —

(a) where the gas licensee is a company incorporated under the
     Companies Act 1967 — it is deemed to be unable to pay its
     debts under section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring
     and Dissolution Act 2018; or

(b) where the gas licensee is a variable capital company
     incorporated under the VCC Act — it is deemed to be
     unable to pay its debts under —

          (i) the repealed section 254(2) of the Companies Act
              1967 as applied by section 130 of the VCC Act as in
              force before the operative date; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
57  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

            (ii) section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
                  Dissolution Act 2018, as applied by section 130 of
                  the VCC Act as in force on the operative date).

                                                                                   [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

(7) Despite any written law —

    (a) a gas licensee must not be wound up voluntarily without
         the consent of the Authority;

    (b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
         relation to a gas licensee without the consent of the
         Authority;

    (c) no step may be taken by any person to enforce any security
        over a gas licensee’s property except where that person has
        served 14 days’ notice in writing of that person’s intention
        to take that step on the Authority;

      (d) no step may be taken by any person to enforce a judgment
           or order of court obtained against a gas licensee, except
           where that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of
           that person’s intention to take that step on the Authority;
           and

                                                                             [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

      (e) no application under section 210 of the Companies
           Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
           and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by any person in
           relation to a gas licensee, unless that person has served
           14 days’ notice in writing of that person’s intention to
           make the application on the Authority.

                                                                                  [24/2007; 40/2018; 43/2018]

(8) The Authority must be a party to —

    (a) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018 or Part 11 of the VCC Act relating to
         the winding up of the affairs of a gas licensee; or

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    (b) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
         section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             58

           Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
           relation to a gas licensee.

                                                                                                         [40/2018]

(9) In this section, unless the context otherwise requires ––

“operative date” means the date of commencement of section 48
   of the Variable Capital Companies (Miscellaneous
   Amendments) Act 2019;

“VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the VCC Act;

“VCC Act” means the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018.

                        [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

Remuneration and expenses of Authority and others

 35.—(1) Where a special administration order has been made under
section 34(1)(a), the Authority may, at any time, whether or not the
order is still in force, fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by
the gas licensee to the Authority.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (2) The Authority may at any time (whether or not the appointment
of the person has terminated) fix the remuneration and expenses to be
paid by a gas licensee to any person appointed by the Minister under
section 34(1)(c) to advise the gas licensee on the proper conduct of its
licensed gas business.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

Savings of wayleaves or easements

 36. Nothing in this Part —

       (a) affects the right of a gas transporter to enter into an
            agreement, commonly known as a wayleave agreement, or
            obtain a grant of an easement with or from the owner or
            occupier of any land for the purpose of laying, placing,
            carrying or erecting any gas pipeline or gas pipeline
            network or gas plant;

       (b) affects any such wayleave agreement or easement
            subsisting immediately before the date of
            commencement of this Act; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
59  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    (c) affects the right of a gas transporter to negotiate the use of
        land or facilities belonging to the State or any other person.

                                    PART 6

      GAS RETAILERS, GAS IMPORTERSAND GENERAL
                                PROVISIONS

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

General duties of gas retailer

 37. It is the duty of a gas retailer —

       (a) to develop and maintain a safe, efficient, reliable and
            economical service for the retailing of gas; and

       (b) to carry on its licensed gas business at all times in such
            manner so as not to prevent, restrict or otherwise hinder the
            development of competition in any gas market in
            Singapore.

Rights of access to relevant facility

 38.—(1) Subject to subsection (8), an owner of a relevant facility
must provide access to the relevant facility without undue
discrimination.

 (2) If a person is unable to negotiate access to a relevant facility, the
person may, after giving the owner of the facility not less than
28 days’ notice, apply to the Authority for directions under this
section in order to secure rights of access to that facility.

 (3) Where an application is made under subsection (2), it is the duty
of the Authority —

       (a) to decide whether the application should be adjourned to
            enable negotiations or further negotiations to take place;

       (b) to decide whether the application should be considered
            further or rejected;

       (c) to give the applicant and the owner of the relevant facility
            or any other person whom the Authority considers has an
            interest an opportunity to be heard; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             60

(d) to inform such persons of its decision.

 (4) Where, after considering an application under subsection (2),
the Authority is satisfied that the efficient operation of the relevant
facility or compliance by the owner of the relevant facility with this
Act or the conditions of a gas licence would not be prejudiced by the
giving of directions, the Authority may give directions —

(a) specifying the terms on which the Authority considers the
     owner of the relevant facility should enter into an access
     agreement with the applicant in order to —

          (i) secure to the applicant an appropriate access right for
              the quantities and quality of gas specified in the
              directions for the duration specified in the directions;

          (ii) secure that the exercise of that access right is not
               prevented or impeded;

          (iii) regulate the charges which may be imposed by the
                owner of the relevant facility for that access right;
                and

          (iv) secure to the applicant any ancillary or incidental
               rights that the Authority considers necessary or
               expedient, including connections rights;

(b) specifying the sums or the method of determining the sums
     which the Authority considers should be paid by the
     applicant to the owner of the relevant facility in
     consideration of that access right;

          (c) requiring the owner of the relevant facility, if the applicant
              pays or agrees to pay those sums within a period specified
              in the directions, to enter into an agreement with the
              applicant on the terms so specified; and

(d) requiring the owner of the relevant facility to make such
     adjustments to charges imposed by the owner on existing
     users of the relevant facility, as the Authority considers
     appropriate.

                                                                                                 [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
61  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (5) To avoid doubt, the Authority may give directions under
subsection (4) notwithstanding that such directions may prejudice the
performance of any contractual obligation of the owner of the
relevant facility, whether such obligation relates to a contract made
before, on or after 11 June 2007.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) In giving any directions under this section, the Authority must
apply the principle that the owner of the relevant facility providing
access to the facility should be entitled to receive —

    (a) the appropriate proportion of its capital value and
         operating costs incurred in respect of the facility; and

    (b) a reasonable rate of return on the appropriate proportion of
         the capital value of the facility.

 (7) The Authority may require any person who requires access to a
gas pipeline or gas pipeline network or who is undertaking the trading
of gas at any point (whether actual or notional) in a gas pipeline or gas
pipeline network to enter into any agreement designated by the
Authority for the purposes of this section.

 (8) The Authority may exempt a relevant facility from the
requirements set out in this section unconditionally or subject to
such conditions as may be specified.

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with a direction of the
Authority under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (10) Any person who does any act which has or is likely to have the
effect of obstructing, hindering or otherwise preventing any other
person from complying with a direction of the Authority under this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part
of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             62

 (11) No action, suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
party to a contract made before 11 June 2007 for, or in relation to, any
breach of that contract, where such breach is solely attributable to, or
occasioned by, the compliance by that party with any direction of the
Authority under this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (12) Nothing in subsection (11) affects the operation of the
Frustrated Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (13) In this section —

“appropriate proportion” means a proportion which properly —

          (a) reflects the use made of the relevant facility by virtue
               of the access right as compared with the use made of
               that facility for other purposes; and

          (b) takes into account sums paid previously in
               consideration for the access right;

“owner”, in relation to a relevant facility, means any person
   legally occupying or having control of the relevant facility;

“relevant facility” means any one or all of the following:

          (a) a gas pipeline or a gas pipeline network;

          (b) a gas processing or production facility which carries
               out any of the following operations:

          (i) synthesising, manufacturing, purifying,
              blending, odorising or compressing gas for
              the purpose of enabling it to be introduced into
              or conveyed through a gas pipeline network
              owned by, or under the management or control
              of, a gas transporter or an exempt gas
              transporter;

          (ii) removing from gas for that purpose any of its
               constituent gas, or separating from gas for that
               purpose any liquids;

          (iii) determining the quantity or quality of gas
                which is or is to be introduced, or so conveyed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
63  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    (c) such onshore receiving facility, LNG terminal, gas
        storage or landing facility (other than a gas pipeline),
        as may be designated by the Authority to be a
        relevant facility for the purposes of this section for
        such time as the Authority considers appropriate.

                                                                                           [24/2007]

Arrangements by Authority for allocation of gas

 38A.—(1) Upon the application of any person who is unable to
enter into an arrangement for the allocation of gas in any offshore gas
pipeline, the Authority may give directions to —

       (a) the applicant; and

       (b) every person whose gas is being conveyed through the
            offshore gas pipeline,

requiring the persons referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) to enter into
such arrangement for the allocation of gas in the offshore gas pipeline
on such terms, and to take such steps to ensure that the arrangement is
given effect to, as the Authority may specify.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Where the Authority has given directions for an arrangement for
the allocation of gas in an offshore gas pipeline under subsection (1)
as between the persons referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that
subsection —

       (a) so much of any arrangement as between the persons
            referred to in subsection (1)(b) for the allocation of gas in
            that offshore gas pipeline in force immediately prior to the
            arrangement so directed by the Authority must thereupon
            cease to apply; and

       (b) the arrangement directed by the Authority must cease to
            apply as between the persons referred to in paragraphs (a)
            and (b) of subsection (1) upon those persons thereafter
            entering into an arrangement as between themselves for the
            allocation of gas in the offshore gas pipeline.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with a direction of the
Authority under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             64

liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for
every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Any person who does any act which has or is likely to have the
effect of obstructing, hindering or otherwise preventing any other
person from complying with a direction of the Authority under this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing
offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part
of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) No action, suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
party to a contract made before 11 June 2007 for, or in relation to, any
breach of that contract, where such breach is solely attributable to, or
occasioned by, the compliance by that party with any direction of the
Authority under this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) Nothing in subsection (5) affects the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) In this section, “offshore gas pipeline” means any gas pipeline
in Singapore waters used for the conveyance of gas to any onshore
receiving facility.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.

 38B.—(1) The Authority may direct any person mentioned in any
of the following paragraphs to allow a gas licensee (G) to carry out
any activity described in the paragraph:

       (a) to connect any key conduit of G to any key facility or key
            conduit of a person and to use the key facility or key
            conduit of the person;

       (b) to install and use any key conduit of G at any premises
            owned or occupied by a person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
65  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    (c) to install and use any usage equipment of G at a key facility
        or key conduit of a person, or a key conduit of G,
        mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

    (d) to use any prescribed wharf or jetty owned or occupied by a
         person, to berth any vessel on which G is to load or from
         which G is to discharge any material of G, and to load the
         material onto or discharge the material from the vessel;

    (e) to use any equipment, apparatus, appliance or facility, or
        any key conduit, of a person at any prescribed wharf or
        jetty, to enable G —

    (i) to load any material of G onto or discharge any
        material of G from any vessel berthed at the
        prescribed wharf or jetty; or

    (ii) to bring any material of G to or away from the
         prescribed wharf or jetty;

    (f) to install and use any equipment, apparatus, appliance or
        facility of G at a prescribed wharf or jetty owned or
        occupied by a person, to enable G to carry out any activity
        described in paragraph (e)(i) or (ii).

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Authority may issue directions to more than
one person at any one time, in relation to the same G.

 (3) To avoid doubt, the premises mentioned in subsection (1)(b)
need not be premises at which any key facility or key conduit of a
person (to which G is to connect its key conduit) is situated, or at
which G is to install any usage equipment.

 (4) The Authority may make a direction under subsection (1) only if
it considers that the direction is necessary —

    (a) in the public interest; or

    (b) to ensure the security and reliability of the supply of gas to
         the public.

(5) For the purpose of subsection (1), the direction may —

    (a) require the person to allow G to enter any premises owned
         or occupied by the person for the purposes of carrying out

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             66

          any activity mentioned in subsection (1) and specified in
          the direction, and in any event require the person not to do,
          or cause or allow to be done, anything that may prevent G
          from carrying out the activity; and

(b) require the person and G to enter into an agreement within
     the period of 30 days after the connection or installation
     under subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (f) has been made or the
     use in subsection (1)(d) or (e) has commenced, for the
     purposes of —

          (i) granting G a wayleave —

          (A) for the continuation of the connection or
               installation at the premises;

          (B) for G to be able to carry out maintenance works
               on —

          (BA) the connection at the premises; or

          (BB) the key conduit, usage equipment,
                 equipment, apparatus, appliance or
                 facility of G installed at the premises;
                 or

          (C) for G to continue the use specified in the
               direction,

          (i) as the case may be; and

          (ii) reasonably compensating the person for any loss
               suffered as a result of the connection, installation or
               use,

and the person and G must comply with a direction under
subsection (1) to the extent that it relates to either of them.

 (6) The Authority may, upon the request of the person or G, grant
one or more extensions of the period mentioned in subsection (5)(b).

 (7) If the person and G are unable to agree on the terms for any
matter so as to be able to enter into an agreement in accordance with a
requirement under subsection (5)(b), either the person or G may

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
67                      Gas Act 2001                         2020 Ed.

request the Minister to establish an Appeal Panel under section 84 to
determine the reasonable terms for that matter.

 (8) The decision of the Appeal Panel under subsection (7) must
include a date on which the person and G are treated as having entered
into an agreement comprising —

    (a) the terms agreed between the person and G, if any; and

    (b) the terms determined by the Appeal Panel,

and the person and G are treated as having entered into an agreement
with each other as from that date on all such terms.

 (9) The direction of the Authority under subsection (1) is revoked
as from the date mentioned in the Appeal Panel’s decision under
subsection (8) to the extent the decision is inconsistent with that
direction.

 (10) Nothing in subsection (8) prevents the person and G from
varying or terminating the agreement treated as entered into under
that subsection.

 (11) A person need not comply with a direction given by the
Authority under subsection (1) for so long as an appeal under
section 93 against the direction is pending.

 (12) Any person who contravenes a direction under subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

(13) In this section —

    “key conduit” means any of the following:

    (a) any gas pipeline;

    (b) any pipe for the transportation of any coolant
         described in paragraph (c) of the definition of “key
         facility”;

    (c) any other conduit prescribed by regulations made
        under section 96 as a key conduit for the purposes of
        this section;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             68

“key facility” means any of the following:

          (a) a gas processing or production facility which carries
               out any of the following operations:

          (i) synthesising, manufacturing, purifying,
              blending, odorising or compressing gas for
              the purpose of enabling it to be introduced into
              or conveyed through a gas pipeline network
              owned by, or under the management or control
              of, a gas transporter or an exempt gas
              transporter;

          (ii) removing from gas for any purpose in
               sub‑paragraph (i) any of its constituent gases,
               or separating from gas for that purpose any
               liquids;

          (iii) determining the quantity or quality of gas
                which is or is to be introduced into or
                conveyed through the gas pipeline network
                mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i);

          (b) any onshore receiving facility, LNG terminal, gas
               storage or landing facility (other than a gas pipeline);

          (c) any facility for receiving or storing any coolant
              (including seawater) required in connection with the
              cooling of any facility in paragraph (a) or (b);

          (d) any other facility prescribed by regulations made
               under section 96 as a key facility for the purposes of
               this section;

“prescribed wharf or jetty” means a wharf or jetty prescribed by
   regulations made under section 96 for the purposes of this
   section;

“usage equipment” means any equipment, apparatus or
   appliance connected with the use or operation of a key
   facility or a key conduit.

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
69  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Connections to and use of key facilities, etc.: supplementary
provisions

 38C.—(1) An agreement under section 38B ceases to be binding on
the person and G upon —

    (a) the determination of the agreement upon the expiration of a
         period specified in the agreement;

    (b) the termination of the agreement pursuant to a term
         contained in the agreement, or any written law or rule of
         law; or

    (c) despite anything in the agreement, the person ceasing, after
        the agreement is entered into, to own the key facility or key
        conduit to which G’s key conduit is connected, or to own or
        occupy the premises at which G’s key conduit, usage
        equipment, equipment, apparatus, appliance or facility is
        installed.

 (2) Upon the agreement ceasing to be binding on the person and G,
a notice to remove any connection, or G’s key conduit, usage
equipment, equipment, apparatus, appliance or facility, covered by
the agreement, may be given to G by —

    (a) where subsection (1)(a) or (b) applies, the person; or

    (b) where subsection (1)(c) applies, the person who is the
         owner of the key facility or key conduit to which G’s key
         conduit is connected or the owner or occupier of the
         premises (as the case may be) following the change in the
         ownership or occupation.

 (3) The notice must give G at least the period prescribed by
regulations made under section 96 to effect the removal.

 (4) G may, during the period given in the notice to remove, apply to
the Authority —

    (a) where G is of the view that the period given to it (including
         where the period is of the prescribed period mentioned in
         subsection (3)) is insufficient for it to effect the removal —
         for an extension of the period; or

    (b) for another direction under section 38B(1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             70

 (5) Where G has made an application under subsection (4), G need
not comply with the notice to remove pending the Authority’s
decision on the application.

 (6) Where the Authority refuses to grant the application under
subsection (4), then, unless the person cancels the notice, G must
comply with the notice to remove before the end of the latest of the
following periods:

(a) the period in the notice to remove;

(b) for an application under subsection (4)(b), the period
     prescribed by regulations made under section 96 after the
     date of the Authority’s refusal to grant the direction
     requested;

          (c) the period specified (if any) in the notice of the Authority’s
              refusal.

 (7) Despite subsection (6), G need not comply with the notice to
remove if G appeals under section 93 against a decision of the
Authority mentioned in that subsection, for so long as the appeal is
pending.

 (8) Where the decision on appeal confirms the decision of the
Authority, G must comply with the notice to remove before the end of
the later of the following periods:

(a) for an application under subsection (4)(b), the period
     prescribed by regulations made under section 96 after the
     date of the decision on appeal;

(b) the period specified (if any) in the decision on appeal.

 (9) Where, pursuant to section 38B, G has at any premises installed
any key conduit, usage equipment, equipment, apparatus, appliance
or facility, each of these —

(a) continues to remain the property of G and is deemed not to
     be a fixture, and does not vest in the owner of the premises;
     and

(b) is not to be subject to distress or be liable to be taken under
     or pursuant to an enforcement order of any court or any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
71  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    proceedings in bankruptcy against the person in whose
    possession it is.

 (10) In this section, “key conduit”, “key facility” and “usage
equipment” have the meanings given by section 38B(13).

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Notice of obstruction of gas main or other apparatus

 39.—(1) Where any gas pipeline, internal pipe or other apparatus
placed in, on, over, under, upon, along or across any premises
becomes obstructed or in any way damaged, the occupier of the
premises must, immediately on the obstruction or damage coming to
the occupier’s knowledge, give notice thereof to the gas transporter,
relevant gas shipper or relevant gas retailer.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Any occupier who neglects to give notice under subsection (1)
after acquiring such knowledge shall be guilty of an offence and the
occupier’s premises may be disconnected by the gas transporter or the
supply of gas to the occupier’s premises may be discontinued by the
relevant gas shipper or relevant gas retailer until the necessary repairs
are effected or the obstruction is removed.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Obstructing gas licensee in performance of duties

 40. Any person who at any time molests, or without cause, hinders
or obstructs, any employee, agent or contractor of a gas licensee in the
performance of the duties of the employee, agent or contractor (as the
case may be) or anything which the employee, agent or contractor is
respectively authorised, empowered or required to do under this Act
shall be guilty of an offence.

Making of false statements

 41.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) when giving any information to the Authority or when
            making any application under or for the purposes of any
            provision of this Act, makes any statement which the
            person knows to be false in a material particular; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.              Gas Act 2001                                 72

(b) when giving any information to the Authority or a gas
     licensee, recklessly makes any statement which is false in a
     material particular the effect of which is to endanger the
     safety of any gas pipeline or gas pipeline network,

shall be guilty of an offence.

(2) Any person who —

(a) wilfully or fraudulently procures or attempts to procure for
     the person or for any other person any gas licence under
     this Act by making or producing or causing to be made or
     produced any false or fraudulent representation or
     declaration verbally or in writing; or

(b) knowingly aids or assists therein,

shall be guilty of an offence.

Falsely pretending to be employee of Authority or gas licensee

 42. Any person who seeks to obtain entry to any premises by falsely
pretending to be an employee of the Authority or a gas licensee shall
be guilty of an offence.

Gas plant and gas fittings not to be subject to distress

 43. Any gas fitting which is connected to a gas service pipe, and any
gas plant in a consumer’s premises which is owned by a gas licensee
and is marked or impressed with a sufficient mark, plate or brand
indicating its owner —

       (a) continues to remain the property of its owner and is
            deemed not to be a fixture, notwithstanding that it may be
            fixed or fastened to any part of the premises in which it
            may be situated; and

       (b) is not to be subject to distress or be liable to be taken under
            or pursuant to an enforcement order of any court or any
            proceedings in bankruptcy against the person in whose
            possession it may be.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
73                         Gas Act 2001                      2020 Ed.

Repurposing of facilities

43A.—(1) This section applies to a person who —

    (a) is a gas licensee or is exempted under section 8; and

    (b) owns, or manages or controls, a relevant facility.

 (2) A person must not, without the prior approval of the Authority,
use or allow the use of the relevant facility or any part of the relevant
facility (including following any modification, replacement or
disposal of any part of the relevant facility) other than as or as part
of such relevant facility.

 (3) Regulations made under section 96 may exclude any of the
following from the application of this section:

    (a) any gas licensee or person exempted under section 8;

    (b) any relevant facility or any part of any relevant facility;

    (c) any use of any relevant facility or part of any relevant
        facility (including following any modification,
        replacement or disposal of any part of the relevant
        facility), generally or in prescribed circumstances.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1
million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) In this section, “relevant facility” has the meaning given by
section 38(13).

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Meters

 44.—(1) Every consumer must take the consumer’s supply of gas
through a meter the use of which does not contravene the regulations.

 (2) In default of the consumer doing so —

       (a) the gas transporter may disconnect or refuse to connect the
            consumer’s premises; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             74

      (b) the relevant gas shipper or relevant gas retailer may
           authorise the supply of gas to the consumer’s premises to
           be discontinued and any gas shipper or gas retailer may
           refuse to supply gas to the consumer’s premises.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

(3) Any meter —

(a) owned by, or under the management or control of, a gas
     transporter or owned by a relevant gas shipper; and

(b) lent or hired to a consumer by the gas transporter or
     relevant gas shipper, as the case may be,

must, at all times and without charge to that consumer, be kept by the
gas transporter or relevant gas shipper, as the case may be, in proper
order for correctly registering the quantity of gas supplied to that
consumer.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) A consumer must at all times keep a meter which belongs to the
consumer in proper order for correctly registering the quantity of gas
supplied to the consumer.

 (5) Subject to the regulations, where a consumer is supplied with
gas through a meter, the index of the meter is prima facie evidence of
the quantity of gas supplied to the consumer.

Prices of gas retailer

 45.—(1) The prices to be charged by a gas retailer and to be paid by
a person to whom the gas retailer retails gas must be in accordance
with such rates as may be established from time to time by the gas
retailer in accordance with the conditions of its gas retailer’s licence.

 (2) The prices established by a gas retailer under subsection (1)
must be published in such manner as to ensure adequate publicity
unless the Authority otherwise directs.

 (3) In establishing prices under subsection (1), a gas retailer may
neither show undue preference as between persons or any class of
persons, nor exercise undue discrimination as between persons or any
class of persons.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
75                       Gas Act 2001                        2020 Ed.

Power to recover gas charges, etc.

46.—(1) Where —

    (a) a demand in writing is made by a gas retailer for the
         payment of any of the charges due to it from a consumer in
         respect of the supply of gas to the consumer’s premises;
         and

    (b) the consumer does not pay those charges within 28 days
         after the making of the demand,

subsections (3) and (4) apply.

(2) Where —

    (a) a written request is made by a gas retailer for the provision
         of a deposit by way of reasonable security for the payment
         of the charges due to it from a consumer in respect of the
         supply of gas to the consumer’s premises; and

    (b) the consumer does not provide such a deposit within 7 days
         after the making of the request,

subsection (3) applies.

 (3) If the gas retailer is a relevant gas retailer, it may, after giving
not less than 7 days’ notice of its intention —

    (a) discontinue the supply to the consumer’s premises or any
         other premises occupied by the consumer; and

    (b) recover any expenses incurred in so doing from the
         consumer.

(4) If —

    (a) the gas retailer is not a relevant gas retailer but another gas
         retailer (the new gas retailer) is such a gas retailer; and

    (b) the gas retailer has assigned to the new gas retailer its right
         to recover any of the charges due to it from the consumer,

subsection (3) applies as if any reference to the gas retailer were a
reference to the new gas retailer.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             76

 (5) The powers conferred by subsections (3) and (4) are not
exercisable in respect of any charges or deposit the amount of which
is genuinely in dispute.

Unauthorised connection with gas pipeline network, etc.

47.—(1) Any person who —

(a) intentionally lays or causes to be laid a pipe or a gas fitting
     to connect with any gas pipeline or gas pipeline network
     owned by, or under the management or control of, a gas
     transporter without the consent of the gas transporter;

(b) dishonestly or fraudulently abstracts, uses, consumes or
     diverts any gas supplied by a gas licensee;

          (c) alters or tampers with any part of any meter or meter
              installation for registering the quantity of gas supplied to
              any person or premises;

(d) does any thing that compromises or adversely affects the
     ability or proper operation of any meter or meter
     installation in duly registering the quantity of gas
     supplied to any person or premises; or

          (e) causes or permits any other person to engage in conduct
              mentioned in paragraph (b), (c) or (d),

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                   [43/2018]

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a),
(b), (c), (d) or (e) shall be liable on conviction to one or both of the
following:

(a) a fine that is the total of —

          (i) an amount not exceeding $50,000; and

          (ii) an amount equal to 3 times the value of gas —

          (A) diverted, abstracted, used or consumed in the
               commission of the offence under
               subsection (1)(a) or (b), or caused or
               permitted to be so diverted, abstracted, used

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
77  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    or consumed in the commission of the offence
    under subsection (1)(e), as the case may be; or

    (B) supplied as a result of the commission of the
         offence under subsection (1)(c), (d) or (e), as
         the case may be;

    (b) imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years,

and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (3) The value of the gas diverted, abstracted, used, consumed or
supplied as mentioned in subsection (2)(a)(ii), may be determined
based on the amount of such gas fairly and reasonably estimated after
comparing records (as are appropriate and available) of gas usage
before, during and after the diversion, abstraction, use, consumption
or supply.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (4) If, in any proceedings before a court for an offence under
subsection (1)(c) or subsection (1)(e) (in relation to
subsection (1)(c)), it is alleged that a person altered or tampered
with any part of any meter or meter installation mentioned in
subsection (1)(c), or caused or permitted any other person to engage
in such alteration or tampering, and it is proved —

    (a) that, at the time of the alleged conduct —

    (i) a device was attached to, or was in the vicinity of, the
        meter or meter installation (or any part of the meter
        or meter installation) for the purpose of altering the
        index of the meter or meter installation or preventing
        the meter or meter installation from duly registering
        the quantity of gas supplied;

    (ii) the covering of the meter or meter installation had a
         hole which is not a result of ordinary wear and tear;

    (iii) any seal or lock fastened by a gas licensee to or on
          any part of the meter or meter installation was
          damaged, removed or changed; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             78

          (iv) any paint or other chemical compound applied by a
               gas licensee to or on any screw, component or
               mechanism of any part of the meter or meter
               installation was damaged or removed or altered in
               its chemical composition; and

(b) that the person had, at the time of the alleged conduct,
     custody or control of the meter or meter installation,

then the person is presumed, until the contrary is proved, to have so
altered or tampered with the meter or meter installation, or to have so
caused or permitted the other person to engage in such alteration or
tampering, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (5) In the case of any offence under subsection (1), the gas
transporter may disconnect the premises of, or the relevant gas
shipper or relevant gas retailer may discontinue the supply of gas to
the premises of, the person referred to in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Supply of gas illegally taken

 48.—(1) Where any person is guilty of an offence under section 47
or otherwise takes a supply of gas which is in the course of being
conveyed by a gas transporter, the gas transporter is entitled to
recover from that person the value of gas so taken.

 (2) Where —

       (a) any person at premises which have been re-connected in
            contravention of section 49(1) takes a supply of gas which
            has been conveyed to those premises by the gas
            transporter; and

       (b) the supply is taken otherwise than in pursuance of a
            contract,

the gas transporter is entitled to recover from that person the value of
the gas so taken.

 (3) A gas transporter must make, and from time to time revise, a
scheme providing for the manner in which the quantity of gas taken in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
79  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

such circumstances as are mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) is to be
determined.

 (4) A scheme under this section may make different provisions for
different cases or classes of cases, or for different areas, determined
by, or in accordance with, the provisions of the scheme.

 (5) As soon as practicable after a gas transporter makes a scheme
under this section or a revision of such a scheme it must —

    (a) publish, in such manner as it considers appropriate for
         bringing it to the attention of persons likely to be affected
         by it, a notice stating the effect of the scheme or revision;

    (b) send a copy of the scheme or revision to the Authority; and

    (c) if so requested by any other person, send such a copy to
        that person without charge to that person.

 (6) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), “value”, in relation
to any gas taken in the circumstances referred to in those subsections,
means the amount which could reasonably be expected to have been
payable by a consumer in respect of the gas.

Restoration of supply without consent

 49.—(1) Where any premises have been disconnected by a gas
transporter in exercise of the powers under this Act or pursuant to a
valid and enforceable contractual right —

       (a) any person who, without the consent of the gas transporter,
            re-connects the supply of gas to those premises shall be
            guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
            fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 3 years or to both; and

       (b) the gas transporter may again disconnect the premises.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Where the supply of gas to any premises has been discontinued
by a gas shipper or gas retailer in exercise of the powers under this
Act or pursuant to a valid and enforceable contractual right —

       (a) any person who, without the consent of the gas shipper or
            gas retailer (as the case may be) restores the supply of gas

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.       Gas Act 2001                                        80

          to those premises shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
          liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
          imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both;
          and

(b) the gas transporter whose pipeline is connected to those
     premises (whether such pipeline is owned by, or under the
     management or control of, the gas transporter) may
     disconnect the premises.

                                                                                                 [24/2007]

Failure to notify connection to or disconnection from gas
pipeline, etc.

50.—(1) No person may —

(a) connect —

          (i) any meter with a gas pipeline;

          (ii) any meter with an internal pipe connected to a gas
               pipeline; or

          (iii) any internal pipe to a gas pipeline,

(a) through which gas is conveyed to any premises by a gas
     transporter; or

(b) disconnect such meter or internal pipe,

unless the person has given 48 hours’ notice in the prescribed form of
the person’s intention to do so —

          (c) in a case where gas is supplied to the premises by a relevant
              gas shipper or relevant gas retailer, to the gas shipper or gas
              retailer; and

(d) in any other case, to the gas transporter.

                                                                   [24/2007]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), a notice under subsection (1) must
contain —

(a) details of the time and place of the proposed connection or
     disconnection; and

(b) any other information that may be prescribed.

                                                                                                 [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
81  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (3) Insofar as it is not reasonably practicable for a notice under
subsection (1) to contain any information required by
subsection (2)(b), it is a sufficient compliance with that
requirement under subsection (2)(b) if the information is given to
the relevant gas shipper, relevant gas retailer or gas transporter (as the
case may be) within 48 hours after the connection or disconnection is
effected.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Where under this section any meter through which gas has been
supplied to any premises is completely disconnected, that is to say, is
disconnected both from the gas pipeline and from all other pipes
within the premises, the person making the disconnection must,
except insofar as it is not reasonably practicable for the person to do
so —

    (a) ascertain the name and address of the owner of the meter;
         and

       (b) inform that owner of the disconnection and of the address
            at which the meter will be available for collection.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Proper use of gas

 51. If any consumer supplied with gas improperly uses or deals
with the gas so as to interfere with the efficient conveyance or supply
of gas (whether to that person or to any other person) —

       (a) the consumer’s premises may be disconnected by the gas
            transporter; or

       (b) the supply of gas to the consumer’s premises may be
            discontinued by the relevant gas shipper or relevant gas
            retailer.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.            Gas Act 2001                                   82

No obligation to restore supply where consumer in default

52.—(1) This section applies where —

(a) a consumer’s premises have been disconnected by a gas
     transporter under this Act; or

       (b) the supply of gas to a consumer’s premises has been
            discontinued by a gas shipper or gas retailer under this Act.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) The gas transporter is not under any obligation to re‑connect the
consumer’s premises, or the gas shipper or gas retailer is not under
any obligation to restore the supply of gas to the consumer’s premises
(as the case may be) until —

(a) the consumer is no longer the owner or occupier of the
     premises; or

(b) the consumer —

          (i) has made good the default, or remedied the matter, in
              consequence of which the premises were
              disconnected or the supply of gas to such premises
              was discontinued; and

          (ii) has paid the reasonable expenses of disconnecting
               and re‑connecting the premises or of discontinuing
               and restoring the supply of gas to the premises, as the
               case may be.

                                                                                                 [24/2007]

Entry for preventing escapes of gas, etc.

 53.—(1) Where a gas transporter has reasonable cause to suspect
that —

       (a) gas conveyed by it is escaping, or may escape, in any
            premises; or

       (b) gas so conveyed which has escaped has entered, or may
            enter, any premises,

any person authorised by the gas transporter may immediately and
without notice enter the premises, inspect the gas fittings or gas plant,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
83  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

carry out any work or other steps necessary to avert danger to life or
property.

(2) Where a gas transporter has reasonable cause to suspect that —

    (a) gas conveyed through gas mains by some other person is
         escaping, or may escape, in any premises within the area
         specified in its gas transporter’s licence; or

    (b) gas so conveyed which has escaped has entered, or may
         enter, any premises in such an area,

any person authorised by the gas transporter may immediately and
without notice enter the premises and take any steps necessary to
avert danger to life or property.

Entry during supply

 54.—(1) Subject to section 60, any person authorised by a gas
transporter may enter a consumer’s premises for the purpose of —

       (a) exercising the gas transporter’s rights under section 29;

       (b) ascertaining the quantity of gas conveyed to the premises;
            or

       (c) exercising such other powers as may be specified in the
            Act.

 (2) Subject to section 60, any person authorised by a relevant gas
shipper or relevant gas retailer may enter a consumer’s premises for
the purpose of —

       (a) inspecting gas fittings; or

       (b) ascertaining the quantity of gas supplied or conveyed to the
            premises.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Entry on discontinuance of supply

 55.—(1) This section applies where —

       (a) a gas transporter is authorised by this Act to disconnect any
            premises or a gas shipper or gas retailer is authorised by
            this Act to discontinue the supply of gas to any premises;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             84

(b) a person occupying any premises supplied with gas by a
     gas shipper or gas retailer ceases to require a supply of gas;
     or

      (c) a person entering into occupation of any premises
           previously supplied with gas by a gas shipper or gas
           retailer does not take a supply of gas.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

(2) Subject to section 60 —

(a) any person authorised by a gas transporter may, after
     7 days’ notice to the occupier of any premises, or to the
     owner of the premises if they are unoccupied, enter the
     premises for the purpose of —

          (i) disconnecting the premises; or

          (ii) removing any meter or other gas fitting owned by, or
               under the management or control of, the gas
               transporter;

(b) any person authorised by a gas shipper may, after 7 days’
     notice to the occupier of any premises, or to the owner of
     the premises if they are unoccupied, enter the premises for
     the purpose of —

          (i) discontinuing the supply of gas to the premises; or

          (ii) removing any meter or other gas fitting owned by the
               gas shipper; and

          (c) any person authorised by a gas retailer may, after 7 days’
              notice to the occupier of any premises, or to the owner of
              the premises if they are unoccupied, enter the premises for
              the purpose of discontinuing the supply of gas to the
              premises.

                                                                                                          [24/2007]

Entry following discontinuance of supply

 56.—(1) This section applies where a consumer’s premises have
been disconnected by a gas transporter, or the supply of gas to a
consumer’s premises has been discontinued by a gas shipper or gas

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
85  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

retailer, otherwise than in the exercise of a power conferred by
section 53 or 65 or the regulations.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Subject to section 60 —

    (a) any person authorised by the gas transporter may enter the
         premises for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
         premises have been re‑connected without the consent of
         the gas transporter; and

      (b) any person authorised by the gas shipper or gas retailer
           may enter the premises for the purpose of ascertaining
           whether the supply of gas has been restored without the
           consent of the gas shipper or gas retailer, as the case may
           be.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

57. [Repealed by Act 24 of 2007]

Entry for replacing, repairing or altering pipes

 58.—(1) Subject to section 60, any person authorised by a gas
transporter may, after 7 days’ notice to the occupier of any premises,
or to the owner of the premises if they are unoccupied, enter the
premises for the purpose of —

       (a) placing a new gas plant in the place of any existing gas
            plant which has already been lawfully placed; or

       (b) maintaining, inspecting, repairing, removing or altering
            any existing gas fitting.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), in the case of an emergency arising from
any defect in a gas plant or gas fitting, the person authorised by the
gas transporter may immediately and without notice enter any
premises for the purposes referred to in that subsection, but notice of
the entry and the justification for it must then be given as soon as
possible after the occurrence of the emergency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             86

Entry into premises by gas transporter for purposes of
inspection

 59. Subject to section 60, a person authorised by a gas transporter
may, after 7 days’ notice to the occupier of any premises, or to the
owner of the premises if they are unoccupied, enter upon and survey
the premises for the purpose of ascertaining whether the premises
would be suitable for use for any purpose connected with the carrying
on of the activities which the gas transporter is authorised by its gas
transporter’s licence to carry on.

Procedure for rights of entry on land

 60.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act and subject to the
provisions of this section, a gas transporter, gas shipper or gas retailer
authorised to enter upon any land or premises under this Act must not
do so unless —

       (a) it has given the required notice in accordance with this Act,
            or where no particular requirement is made, 14 days’
            notice of the intended entry, such notice to be in
            accordance with subsection (3) and stating as fully and
            accurately as possible the acts intended to be done; and

       (b) it, or any person authorised by it, has produced a duly
            authenticated document as evidence of its authority.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Where a gas transporter, gas shipper or gas retailer is authorised
to enter upon any land or premises under this Act, it must do so at a
reasonable time.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Any notice referred to in subsection (1)(a) must —

       (a) where the land is occupied, be given to the occupier;

       (b) where the land is not occupied, be given to the owner if the
            owner’s name and address are known or can with
            reasonable diligence be ascertained;

       (c) where the land is not occupied and the name and address of
            the owner cannot be ascertained with reasonable diligence,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
87  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    be exhibited in some conspicuous part of the premises not
    less than 48 hours before the premises are entered; and

    (d) where the land is used or reserved for any public purpose,
         be given to the officer or other person in charge of the
         execution of that purpose.

 (4) For the purpose of giving a notice referred to in
subsection (1)(a), the gas licensee or person authorised by the gas
licensee is entitled to enter the premises.

 (5) Where, in the exercise of any right of entry conferred by or
under this Part, any damage is caused to any premises or to any
movable property, any person interested in the premises or movable
property may recover reasonable compensation as may be agreed in
respect of that damage from the gas licensee on whose behalf the
power is exercised.

 (6) For the purposes of this Part, “premises”, where the context
requires, includes a building or structure or other place in which gas is
escaping or suspected to be escaping.

Provisions as to powers of entry

 61.—(1) No person authorised by a gas transporter, gas shipper or
gas retailer may exercise any powers of entry conferred by this Part or
the regulations and no licensed gas service worker may exercise any
powers of entry under the regulations unless —

       (a) the person so authorised or the licensed gas service worker
            (as the case may be) is a fit and proper person to exercise
            those powers; or

       (b) in cases of emergency, those powers are powers conferred
            by section 53.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Where, in pursuance of any powers of entry conferred by this
Part or the regulations, entry is made on any premises by a person
authorised by a gas transporter, gas shipper or gas retailer, or by a
licensed gas service worker —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             88

(a) the person so authorised or the licensed gas service worker
     must ensure that the premises are left no less secure by
     reason of the entry; and

(b) if, in taking any action therein authorised by this Part or the
     regulations, or in making the premises secure —

          (i) the person so authorised or the licensed gas service
              worker; or

          (ii) any person accompanying the person so authorised
               or the licensed gas service worker in entering the
               premises,

(b) causes any damage to the premises or to any movable
     property, the gas transporter, gas shipper, gas retailer or
     licensed gas service worker (as the case may be) must —

          (iii) make good that damage; or

             (iv) pay any person interested in the premises or movable
                   property such reasonable compensation as may be
                   agreed in respect of that damage.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Any person authorised by a gas transporter, gas shipper or gas
retailer or any licensed gas service worker exercising the powers of
entry conferred by this Part or the regulations may be accompanied by
such persons as may be necessary or expedient for the purpose for
which the entry is made, or for the purposes of subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) If any person intentionally obstructs any other person exercising
powers of entry conferred by this Part or the regulations, the person
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both, or in a case where the obstruction endangers life
or property, to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

 (5) The Authority may by regulations made under section 96 make
provision for empowering a person authorised by a gas transporter —

(a) to enter any premises in which there is a gas service pipe
     connected with a gas main for the purpose of inspecting

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
89  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    any gas fitting or gas appliance on the premises, any flue or
    means of ventilation used in connection with any such gas
    fitting or gas appliance or any part of the gas pipeline
    network on the premises, that is to say, any gas service pipe
    or other apparatus (not being a gas fitting) which is on the
    premises and is used for the conveyance or supply of gas or
    is connected with a gas main; and

    (b) where the person so enters such premises, to examine or
         apply any test to any such object as is mentioned in
         paragraph (a) and, where the object is a gas fitting, to
         verify what supply of air is available for it.

Prohibition relating to gas for electricity generation, etc.

 61AA.—(1) Unless the Authority otherwise allows, a person must
not provide gas to any prescribed generation entity unless the person
holds a gas importer’s licence (central import).

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of any contract for the
provision of gas to a prescribed generation entity that was entered into
before the date of commencement of section 37 of the Energy
Transition Measures and Other Amendments Act 2024, or any such
contract that is renewed or extended before, on or after that date.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1
million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (4) Without affecting subsection (3), where any person contravenes
subsection (1), the contract by which the person purports to provide
gas to the prescribed generation entity is void to the extent of the
contravention.

 (5) Nothing in this Act prohibits a gas importer that holds a gas
importer’s licence (central import) from providing gas to any person
that is not a prescribed generation entity (whether or not for the
purpose of generating electricity) in accordance with any restrictions
and conditions imposed under section 9.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             90

 (6) Without affecting section 19, any contract entered into by the
holder of a gas importer’s licence (central import) that contravenes
any condition of the licence is void to the extent of the contravention.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

Duties of gas importer holding gas importer’s licence (central
import)

 61AB. It is the duty of the holder of a gas importer’s licence (central
import) to avoid undue preference or undue discrimination as
between prescribed generation entities in the terms on which it
undertakes to provide any gas to any prescribed generation entity.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/09/2025]

                                    PART 7

                         GAS NETWORK CODE

Interpretation of this Part

 61A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires ––

      “designated gas transporter” means a gas transporter declared by
         the Authority, by notification in the Gazette, to be a
         designated gas transporter for the purposes of this Part;

      “gas” means natural gas;

      “gas pipeline network” means any gas pipeline network which is
         used by the designated gas transporter for the conveyance of
         gas from any onshore receiving facility;

      “relevant gas shipper” means a gas shipper who ships gas by
         means of a gas pipeline network.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Gas Network Code

 61B.—(1) The Authority must issue a Gas Network Code for the
use and operation of a gas pipeline network, which must include the
following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
91  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    (a) the governing of arrangements between the designated gas
         transporter and the relevant gas shippers for the purpose of
         enabling or ensuring that —

    (i) no person is prevented from gaining access to the gas
        pipeline network; and

    (ii) there is no undue discrimination for or against —

    (A) the designated gas transporter; or

    (B) any person’s access to the gas pipeline
         network;

    (b) the governing of the activities of the designated gas
         transporter and the relevant gas shippers;

    (c) the establishing and governing of the principles and
        methodologies relating to the operation of the gas
        pipeline network;

      (d) the establishing and governing of the charges payable by,
           and other liabilities to be discharged by, the designated gas
           transporter and the relevant gas shippers.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

(2) The designated gas transporter —

    (a) may modify the Gas Network Code in such manner as is
         provided in the Gas Network Code; and

       (b) must modify the Gas Network Code if directed to do so by
            the Authority.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Any modification to the Gas Network Code under
subsection (2) is subject to approval by the Authority, which
approval must be granted unless the Authority determines that the
modification —

    (a) being a modification made under subsection (2)(a) —

    (i) prevents any person from gaining access to any gas
        pipeline network; or

    (ii) unduly discriminates in favour of or against —

    (A) the designated gas transporter; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             92

          (B) any person’s access to the gas pipeline
               network; or

       (b) is inconsistent with any function or duty of the Authority
            under section 3(3).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) The Gas Network Code issued or modified in accordance with
this section must be published by the designated gas transporter in
such manner as will secure adequate publicity.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) The designated gas transporter or any relevant gas shipper must
not do any thing which, or must not omit to do any thing the omission
of which, has or is likely to have an adverse effect on or
compromise —

(a) the safety or efficiency (including economic efficiency) of
     a gas pipeline network or any of its operations; or

       (b) the security or reliability of the conveyance of gas by
            means of a gas pipeline network.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) The Gas Network Code is deemed not to be subsidiary
legislation.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Implementation of Gas Network Code

 61C.—(1) The designated gas transporter must devise such tests or
trials as are required for the implementation of a Gas Network Code
proposed to be issued by the Authority under section 61B.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) The designated gas transporter and every relevant gas shipper
must participate in any test or trial devised under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Gas Network Code has effect as contract

 61D.—(1) The Gas Network Code is deemed to be, and operates as,
a binding contract between the designated gas transporter and each
relevant gas shipper.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
93  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (2) The designated gas transporter and each relevant gas shipper are
deemed to have agreed to observe and perform the provisions of the
Gas Network Code as far as they are applicable to the designated gas
transporter or the relevant gas shipper, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Limitation of actions under Gas Network Code

 61E.—(1) If the Gas Network Code —

       (a) regulates the manner in which disputes under the Gas
            Network Code are to be resolved; and

       (b) restricts recourse to the courts until such time as the dispute
            resolution process in the Gas Network Code has been
            exhausted,

recourse to the courts is to be limited in accordance with the Gas
Network Code except in relation to matters of law and jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Nothing in this section is to be construed as —

       (a) sanctioning the absolute limitation of appeals to the courts
            except in relation to matters of facts; or

       (b) limiting the right of any person to seek interim injunctive
            relief from the courts.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Directions in relation to Gas Network Code

 61F.—(1) The Authority may, on an application by any relevant gas
shipper, direct any relevant direct access customer to do or not to do
such things, including to pay to the relevant gas shipper such charges,
as may be determined by the Authority —

       (a) in relation to any obligation or liability of the relevant gas
            shipper under the Gas Network Code; and

       (b) for the purpose of ensuring the security or reliability of the
            conveyance of gas by the designated gas transporter.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made in such form
and manner as the Authority may determine and must be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             94

accompanied by such information and documents as the Authority
may require.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any direction given by the
Authority under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) In this section, “relevant direct access customer” means any
direct access customer to whose premises a relevant gas shipper ships
gas.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                   PART 7A

                          CODES OF PRACTICE

Codes of practice

 62.—(1) The Authority may issue one or more codes of practice for
the regulation of activities and conduct in the gas industry.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) The Authority may at any time modify any code of practice
issued under subsection (1) in such manner as may be specified in that
code of practice.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1) or (2), the Authority may
require any gas licensee to prepare for its consideration such code of
practice or such modification to any code of practice as the Authority
may determine.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Any code of practice issued or modified by the Authority under
this section must be published by the Authority in such manner as will
secure adequate publicity.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) If any provision in any code of practice issued by the Authority
is inconsistent with any regulations made under this Act, such
provision shall, to the extent of the inconsistency, either have effect
subject to such regulations or, where appropriate, having regard to
such regulations, shall not have effect.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
95  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (6) The Authority is to specify the codes of practice which are
applicable to a gas licensee or a class of gas licensees and each gas
licensee must, subject to subsection (7), comply with such codes of
practice as are applicable to it.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) The Authority may exempt, either generally or subject to such
conditions as the Authority may determine, any gas licensee or class
of gas licensees from any provision in any code of practice which is
applicable to that gas licensee or class of gas licensees.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (8) Any code of practice issued by the Authority under this section
is deemed not to be subsidiary legislation.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (9) In this section, a reference to a code of practice includes a
reference to a standard of performance.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Directions by Authority

 63.—(1) The Authority may give directions to a gas licensee or any
other person for or with respect to any code of practice, standard of
performance or other procedures —

       (a) to ensure the security or reliability of the conveyance of
            gas to consumers’ premises;

       (b) in the interests of public safety; or

       (c) as may be necessary to enable the Authority to carry out its
            functions and duties under section 3(3).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Any person who fails to comply with any direction given by the
Authority under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             96

                             PART 7B

CONTROL OF GAS LICENSEES AND ENTITIES WITH
        INTEREST IN GAS PIPELINE NETWORK

Interpretation of this Part

63A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“12% controller”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
   designated entity or designated business trust, means a
   person, not being a 25% controller, who, alone or together
   with the person’s associates —

          (a) holds 12% or more of the total equity interests in; or

          (b) is in a position to control 12% or more of the voting
               power in,

   the designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated
   business trust;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

“25% controller”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
   designated entity or designated business trust, means a
   person, not being a 30% controller, who, alone or together
   with the person’s associates —

          (a) holds 25% or more of the total equity interests in; or

          (b) is in a position to control 25% or more of the voting
               power in,

   the designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated
   business trust;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

“30% controller”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
   designated entity or designated business trust, means a
   person, not being a 50% controller, who, alone or together
   with the person’s associates —

          (a) holds 30% or more of the total equity interests in; or

          (b) is in a position to control 30% or more of the voting
               power in,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
97  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

       the designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated
       business trust;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “50% controller”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
       designated entity or designated business trust, means a
       person, not being a 75% controller, who, alone or together
       with the person’s associates —

    (a) holds 50% or more of the total equity interests in; or

    (b) is in a position to control 50% or more of the voting
         power in,

       the designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated
       business trust;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “75% controller”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
       designated entity or designated business trust, means a person
       who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

    (a) holds 75% or more of the total equity interests in; or

    (b) is in a position to control 75% or more of the voting
         power in,

       the designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated
       business trust;

                                                                           [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

    “arrangement” includes any formal or informal scheme,
       arrangement or understanding, and any trust whether
       express or implied;

    “associate” has the meaning given to that expression in
       regulations made under section 63CA;

    “business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Business Trusts Act 2004;

    “chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
       means any person, by whatever name described, who —

    (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
         arrangement with, the designated gas licensee; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             98

          (b) is principally responsible for the management and
               conduct of any type of business of the designated gas
               licensee,

          and includes any person for the time being performing all or
          any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“designated business trust” means a business trust that is
   established wholly or partly in respect of a gas pipeline
   network (or any part thereof) and which has been declared by
   the Minister to be a designated business trust for the purposes
   of this Part;

“designated entity” means an entity, not being a gas licensee —

          (a) that owns a gas pipeline network (or any part of a gas
               pipeline network); or

          (b) which the Authority is satisfied —

          (i) will engage in (but has not yet commenced
              engaging in); or

          (ii) is engaging in,

          (b) an activity mentioned in section 6(1) that is critical to
               Singapore’s energy security and reliability,

   and is declared by the Minister to be a designated entity for
   the purposes of this Part;

                                                                       [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

“designated gas licensee” means any of the following:

          (a) a gas transporter;

          (b) a gas transport agent;

          (c) an LNG terminal operator;

          (d) any other gas licensee declared by the Minister to be a
               designated gas licensee for the purposes of this Part;

“entity” includes a corporation and a limited liability
   partnership;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
99  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

    “equity interest” has the meaning given to that expression in
       regulations made under section 63CA;

    “indirect controller”, in relation to a designated gas licensee,
       designated entity or designated business trust, means any
       person, whether acting alone or together with any other
       person, and whether with or without holding equity interests
       or controlling the voting power in the designated gas
       licensee, designated entity or designated business trust —

    (a) in accordance with whose directions, instructions or
         wishes the directors or other officers of the licensee,
         the entity or the trustee-manager of the business trust
         (as the case may be) are accustomed or under an
         obligation, whether formal or informal, to act; or

    (b) who is in a position to determine the policy of the
         licensee, the entity or the trustee-manager of the
         business trust,

    but does not include —

    (c) in the case of the licensee, any person who is a
        director or other officer of the licensee and whose
        appointment as such has been approved by the
        Authority under section 63H; or

    (d) any person in accordance with whose directions,
         instructions or wishes the directors or other officers
         of the licensee, the entity or the trustee‑manager of
         the business trust (as the case may be) are
         accustomed to act by reason only that they act on
         advice given by the person in the person’s
         professional capacity;

    “limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
       section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

    “trustee-manager” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Business Trusts Act 2004.

                            [24/2007; 43/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             100

Control of equity interests and voting power in, and business
of, designated gas licensee, designated entity and designated
business trust

 63B.—(1) A designated gas licensee, a designated entity or the
trustee‑manager of a designated business trust must each give written
notice to the Authority if any person acquires equity interest in the
licensee, the entity or the business trust (as the case may be) whether
through a series of transactions over a period of time or otherwise,
that would result in that person holding 5% or more but less than 12%
of the total equity interest in the licensee, the entity or the business
trust, respectively.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (2) The notice under subsection (1) must be given within 5 days
after the designated gas licensee, the designated entity or the
trustee‑manager of the designated business trust (as the case may
be) becomes aware of the acquisition mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (3) No person may, whether through a series of transactions over a
period of time or otherwise, become a 12% controller, a 25%
controller, a 30% controller, a 50% controller, a 75% controller or an
indirect controller of a designated gas licensee, a designated entity or
a designated business trust without obtaining the prior written
approval of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3A) No person may, whether through a series of transactions over a
period of time or otherwise, cease to become a 50% controller or a
75% controller of a designated gas licensee, a designated entity or a
designated business trust without obtaining the prior written approval
of the Authority.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) No person may acquire as a going concern —

(a) the business (or any part thereof) of a designated gas
     licensee conducted pursuant to its licence;

(b) the business (or any part thereof) of a designated entity
     which —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
101  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (i) for a designated entity within paragraph (a) of the
         definition of “designated entity” in section 63A —
         relates to a gas pipeline network or any part thereof
         owned by the designated entity; and

           (ii) for a designated entity within paragraph (b) of the
                definition of “designated entity” in section 63A —
                relates to the activity or any part thereof by reason of
                which it is a designated entity; or

                                                                         [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

     (c) the business (or any part thereof) of a designated business
         trust relating to a gas pipeline network or any part thereof
         in respect of which, wholly or in part, the business trust is
         established,

unless the person, and the licensee, the entity or the trustee-manager
of the business trust (as the case may be) obtain the prior written
approval of the Authority.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

Approval of applications under section 63B

 63C.—(1) The Authority may approve an application of a person
for the Authority’s approval under section 63B(3) if the Authority is
satisfied that —

       (a) the person, and every associate of the person known to the
            Authority, is a fit and proper person;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) having regard to the likely influence of the person and
            every associate of the person known to the Authority —

               (i) the designated gas licensee or designated entity (as
                   the case may be) will continue to conduct its business
                   prudently and comply with the provisions of this Act;
                   or

              (ii) the trustee-manager of the designated business trust
                   will continue to conduct the business of the business
                   trust prudently and comply with the provisions of
                   this Act; and

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             102

          (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                                   [24/2007]

 (1A) The Authority may approve an application of a person for the
Authority’s approval under section 63B(3A) if the Authority is
satisfied that —

(a) the designated gas licensee, the designated entity or the
     trustee-manager of the designated business trust will
     continue to conduct its business or the business of the
     business trust (as the case may be) prudently and comply
     with the provisions of this Act, despite the person ceasing
     to be a 50% controller or a 75% controller; and

       (b) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) The Authority may approve an application for the Authority’s
approval under section 63B(4) if the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) the person acquiring the business is a fit and proper person;

(b) the acquisition will not affect the security or reliability of
     the conveyance of gas to consumers’ premises; and

          (c) it is in the public interest to do so.

                                                                   [24/2007]

 (3) Any approval granted by the Authority under this section is
without prejudice to the operation of Part 9.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Any approval by the Authority under this section may be
granted subject to such conditions as the Authority may determine,
including but not limited to any condition —

(a) restricting the disposal or further acquisition of equity
     interests or voting power in the designated gas licensee,
     designated entity or designated business trust; or

       (b) restricting the exercise of voting power in the designated
            gas licensee, designated entity or designated business trust.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) The Authority may at any time add to, vary or revoke any
condition imposed under this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
103  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (6) Any condition imposed under this section has effect despite the
provisions of any other written law or anything contained in the
memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or other
constitution of the designated gas licensee, designated entity or
designated business trust.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

Regulations for carrying out sections 63B and 63C

 63CA.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make such regulations under section 96 as are necessary or expedient
for carrying out the purposes of sections 63B and 63C.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may
prescribe —

       (a) the meaning of equity interest and the circumstances under
            which a person is treated as holding a percentage of the
            total equity interest in a designated gas licensee, a
            designated entity or a designated business trust;

       (b) the circumstances under which a person is treated as being
            in a position to control a percentage of the voting power in
            a designated gas licensee, a designated entity or a
            designated business trust;

       (c) the circumstances under which a person is treated as
            having acquired as a going concern a business mentioned
            in section 63B(4);

       (d) the circumstances under which a person is treated as being
            an associate for the purposes of sections 63A, 63E and
            63G; and

       (e) the manner in which any notice or application under
            section 63B must be given or made, and the person or
            persons who must give the notice or make the application.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

Power to exempt
 63D. The Authority may, by order in the Gazette, exempt —
       (a) any person or class of persons; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             104

(b) any class or description of equity interests,

from section 63B(1), (3), (3A) or (4), subject to such conditions as
may be specified in the order.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Power to issue directions

 63E.—(1) The Authority may issue any direction under
subsection (2), (2A) or (3) (as the case may be) to a person if the
Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) the person has contravened section 63B(3), (3A) or (4);

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
            approval under section 63B(3) or who has been exempted
            from section 63B(3) under section 63D —

               (i) the person or any associate of the person is not or
                   ceases to be a fit and proper person;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

              (ii) having regard to the likely influence of the person or
                   any associate of the person —

                    (A) the designated gas licensee or designated entity
                          (as the case may be) is not, or is no longer,
                          likely to conduct its business prudently or to
                          comply with the provisions of this Act; or

                     (B) the trustee-manager of the designated business
                          trust is not, or is no longer, likely to conduct the
                          business of the business trust prudently or to
                          comply with the provisions of this Act; or

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

             (iii) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow
                   the person to continue to be a 12% controller, a 25%
                   controller, a 30% controller, a 50% controller, a 75%
                   controller or an indirect controller, as the case may
                   be;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
105  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (ba) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
           approval under section 63B(3A) or who has been
           exempted from section 63B(3A) under section 63D, and
           ceases to be a 50% controller or a 75% controller of the
           designated gas licensee, designated entity or trustee-
           manager of the designated business trust, as the case
           may be —

     (i) the designated gas licensee or designated entity (as
         the case may be) is not conducting, or is no longer
         likely to conduct, its business prudently or to comply
         with the provisions of this Act because of the
         cessation; or

           (ii) the trustee-manager of the designated business trust
                is not conducting, or is no longer likely to conduct,
                the business of the business trust prudently or to
                comply with the provisions of this Act because of the
                cessation;

                                                                         [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

     (c) in the case of a person who has obtained the Authority’s
         approval under section 63B(4) or who has been exempted
         from section 63B(4) under section 63D, and who has
         acquired as a going concern a business referred to in
         section 63B(4) —

     (i) the person is not or ceases to be a fit and proper
         person; or

     (ii) it is not, or is no longer, in the public interest to allow
          the person to continue to own or manage that
          business;

     (d) the person has furnished false or misleading information or
          documents to the Authority in connection with the person’s
          application for the Authority’s approval under
          section 63B(3), (3A) or (4);

                                                                         [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

     (e) the Authority would not have approved the person’s
          application for its approval under section 63B(3), (3A)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             106

            or (4) had it been aware, at that time, of circumstances
            relevant to the application; or

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

        (f) any condition imposed on the person under section 63C or
            63D has not been complied with.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) Where the person is a 12% controller, a 25% controller, a 30%
controller, a 50% controller, a 75% controller or an indirect controller
of a designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated business
trust, the Authority may, by written notice —

(a) direct the person to take such steps as are necessary, within
     such period as may be specified by the Authority, to ensure
     that the person ceases to be a 12% controller, a 25%
     controller, a 30% controller, a 50% controller, a 75%
     controller or an indirect controller of the licensee, entity or
     business trust;

                                                                    [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

(b) direct the person or any of the person’s associates to
     transfer or dispose of all or any of the equity interests in the
     licensee, entity or business trust held by the person or the
     person’s associate (called in this section and section 63F
     the specified equity interests) within such time and subject
     to such conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

          (c) restrict the transfer or disposal of the specified equity
              interests; or

       (d) make any other direction that the Authority considers
            appropriate.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2A) Where the person has ceased to be a 50% controller or a 75%
controller of a designated gas licensee, designated entity or
designated business trust (as the case may be), the Authority may,
by written notice —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
107  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (a) direct the person to take any steps that are necessary, within
          the period specified by the Minister, to resume being a 50%
          controller or a 75% controller, as the case may be;

     (b) direct any transferee to whom the person had transferred its
          equity interests so as to cease to be a 50% controller or a
          75% controller (called in this section and section 63F the
          relevant equity interests) to take any steps that are
          necessary, within the period specified by the Minister, to
          transfer all or any of those equity interests back to the
          person;

     (c) restrict the transfer or disposal of the relevant equity
         interests; or

       (d) make any other direction that the Minister considers
            appropriate.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3) Where the person has acquired as a going concern a business
referred to in section 63B(4), the Authority may, by written notice —

     (a) direct the person to transfer or dispose of the business or
          any part thereof within such time and subject to such
          conditions as the Authority considers appropriate;

     (b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the business or any part
          thereof; or

       (c) make such other direction as the Authority considers
            appropriate.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Before issuing any direction to any person under subsection (2),
(2A) or (3), the Authority must, unless the Authority decides that it is
not practicable or desirable to do so, give to that person notice in
writing of the Authority’s intention to issue the direction and
specifying a date by which the person may make written
representations with regard to the proposed direction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             108

 (5) Upon receipt of any written representation referred to in
subsection (4), the Authority must consider it for the purpose of
determining whether to issue the direction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) Any person to whom a direction is issued under this section
must comply with the direction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) The Authority may at any time vary or revoke any direction
issued under this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Effect of directions

 63F.—(1) Any direction issued by the Authority to any person
under section 63E takes effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, trust deed or other constitution of the designated gas
licensee, designated entity or designated business trust, as the case
may be.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (2) Where any direction is issued under section 63E(2)(b) or (c) or
(2A)(b) or (c), despite the provisions of any other written law or
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association,
trust deed or other constitution, of the designated gas licensee,
designated entity or designated business trust (as the case may be) —

       (a) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of the specified
            equity interests or relevant equity interests unless the
            Authority expressly permits such rights to be exercised;

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) no equity interests in the licensee, entity or business trust
            may be issued or offered (whether by way of rights, bonus
            or otherwise) in respect of the specified equity interests or
            relevant equity interests unless the Authority expressly
            permits such issue or offer; and

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (c) except in a winding up of the licensee, entity or business
            trust, payments must not be made by the licensee, entity or
            trustee‑manager of the business trust of any amount

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
109  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in respect of
     the specified equity interests or relevant equity interests
     unless the Authority expressly authorises such payment,

until the transfer or disposal is effected in accordance with the
direction or until the restriction on the transfer or disposal is removed,
as the case may be.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Offences, penalties and defences

 63G.—(1) Any person who contravenes section 63B(1), (3), (3A)
or (4) or 63E(6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $500,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $50,000 for every day or
            part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 63B(3) or (3A), it is a defence for the person
to prove that —

       (a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
            section 63B(3) or (3A); and

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

       (b) the person has, within 14 days of becoming aware that the
            person had contravened section 63B(3) or (3A), notified
            the Authority of the contravention and, within such time as
            may be determined by the Authority, taken such actions in
            relation to the person’s holding of equity interests or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             110

            control of the voting power in the designated gas licensee,
            designated entity or designated business trust as the
            Authority may direct.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 63B(3), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of an increase in the
     holding of equity interests, or in the voting power
     controlled, by any of the person’s associates;

(b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
     or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests or other interests in, or under
     which they act together in exercising their voting power in
     relation to, the designated gas licensee, designated entity or
     designated business trust; and

       (c) the person has, within 14 days of the date of the
            contravention, notified the Authority of the contravention
            and, within such time as may be determined by the
            Authority, taken such actions in relation to the person’s
            holding of equity interests or control of the voting power in
            the designated gas licensee, designated entity or designated
            business trust as the Authority may direct.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (3A) Where a person is charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 63B(3A), it is also a defence for the person to
prove that, even though the person was aware of the contravention —

(a) the contravention occurred as a result of a decrease in the
     holding of equity interests or in the voting power
     controlled by any of the person’s associates;

(b) the person has no agreement or arrangement, whether oral
     or in writing and whether express or implied, with that
     associate with respect to the acquisition, holding or
     disposal of equity interests in, or under which they act

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
111  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     together in exercising their voting power in relation to, the
     designated gas licensee, the designated entity or the
     designated business trust; and

       (c) the person has, within 14 days of the date of the
            contravention, notified the Authority of the contravention
            and, within such time as may be determined by the
            Authority, taken such actions in relation to the person’s
            holding of equity interests or control of voting power in the
            designated gas licensee, the designated entity or the
            designated business trust as the Authority may direct.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) Except as provided in subsections (2), (3) and (3A), it is not a
defence for a person charged with an offence in respect of a
contravention of section 63B(1), (3) or (3A) to prove that the person
did not intend to or did not knowingly contravene section 63B(1), (3)
or (3A).

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of
designated gas licensee

 63H.—(1) No designated gas licensee may appoint a person as its
chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
directors unless it has obtained the prior written approval of the
Authority.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Where a person has been appointed by a designated gas licensee
as its chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its
board of directors in contravention of subsection (1), the Authority
may issue a direction to the licensee to remove that person as its chief
executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its board of
directors, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) This section has effect despite the Companies Act 1967 or
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association, or
other constitution, of the designated gas licensee.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             112

          PART 8

          SAFETY

Safety requirements in relation to gas

 64.—(1) No person may carry out any work in such a manner that
allows gas to escape unless precautions are taken to prevent any such
escape of gas from being a danger to any person or property.

 (2) No person may connect a gas installation to a source of gas
without ensuring that every outlet is sealed with the appropriate gas
fitting and the gas installation has been tested for gas tightness.

 (3) Where a person carries out any work in relation to a gas fitting
which might affect the gas tightness of a gas installation, a gas
pipeline or gas pipeline network, the person must immediately
thereafter test the system for gas tightness.

 (4) Any person who disconnects a gas fitting must, with the
appropriate fitting, seal off every outlet of every pipe to which it is
connected.

 (5) No person carrying out work in relation to a gas fitting which
involves exposing any part of the gas installation which contains or
contained flammable gas may smoke or use any source of ignition
unless the gas installation has been purged so as to remove all such
gas or has otherwise been made safe from risk of fire or explosion.

 (6) No person searching for an escape of gas from a gas fitting may
use any source of ignition unless the source of ignition is incorporated
as part of an instrument designed for the detection of gas.

 (7) No person may use any naked flame or carry out any hotwork in
the vicinity where gas is known to be leaking.

 (8) Any person who contravenes any provision of this section shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
113                      Gas Act 2001                         2020 Ed.

Notified escapes of gas

 65.—(1) Where any gas escapes from any gas pipeline owned by, or
under the management or control of a gas transporter, or from any
internal pipe, gas fitting or gas appliance used by a consumer to
whose premises gas is conveyed by the gas transporter, the gas
transporter must —

     (a) immediately take steps necessary to prevent the gas from
          escaping (whether by disconnecting any premises or
          otherwise); and

      (b) take any other steps necessary to avert danger to life or
           property.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

(2) A gas transporter who —

     (a) fails within a reasonable time to effectively prevent the gas
          from escaping; or

     (b) fails to comply with subsection (1)(b),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2)(a), it is a
defence for the gas transporter to prove that —

     (a) it was not reasonably practicable for it to effectively
          prevent the gas from escaping; and

     (b) it did effectively prevent the escape as soon as it was
          reasonably practicable for it to do so.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2)(b), it is a
defence for the gas transporter to prove that it took all such steps to
avert danger to life or property as were reasonably practicable.

 (5) It is the duty of any gas transporter, gas shipper or gas retailer to
take all steps necessary to ensure that, if it is informed by any person
(the informant) or otherwise knows of an escape of gas (other than
one, in the case of a gas transporter, that it is required by

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             114

subsection (1) to prevent), it passes the information on, without
avoidable delay —

(a) to a responsible person, that is to say, a person appearing to
     it —

          (i) to be responsible (whether under this section or
              otherwise) for preventing the escape; or

          (ii) to be the gas transporter from whose gas pipeline
               network the gas is escaping; or

       (b) to a person nominated by a responsible person to receive
            information on the responsible person’s behalf about
            escaping of gas.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5)(b), there is sufficient
compliance if the gas transporter, gas shipper or gas retailer is
reasonably satisfied that the informant has passed on the information,
without avoidable delay, to the nominated person.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (7) For the purposes of subsections (5) and (6), references to the
passing on of information to a nominated person are references to the
passing on of information to that person in such manner (if any) as
may be specified by the responsible person by whom that person was
nominated.

Suspected escapes of gas

 66.—(1) Where a gas transporter has reasonable cause to suspect
that gas conveyed by the gas transporter which has escaped, has
entered, or may enter any premises, the gas transporter must take all
steps necessary to avert danger to life or property.

 (2) If a gas transporter fails to comply with subsection (1), it shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $100,000.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), it is a
defence for the gas transporter to prove that it took all such steps to
avert danger to life or property as were reasonably practicable.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
115  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Power to disconnect and interrupt supply of gas

 67.—(1) Where, on the occurrence of a fire or on the reasonable
expectation or occurrence of an operational emergency, a gas
transporter, a licensed gas service worker or an authorised officer
is of the opinion that immediate action is necessary —

     (a) in the interests of public safety;

     (b) in order to repair damaged gas pipelines;

     (c) in order to avoid undue interference with the efficient
         conveyance of gas and shipping of gas to consumers;

     (d) for the construction of any new work, alteration to or the
          maintenance of any existing work;

     (e) for the installation, change or removal of any meter; or

     (f) for the conservation of the supply of gas,

the gas transporter or licensed gas service worker or authorised
officer (as the case may be) may immediately disconnect or divert the
supply of gas to any premises and must immediately thereafter give
written notice of the disconnection or diversion to the owner or
occupier of the premises.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) A gas transporter, licensed gas service worker or authorised
officer shall not be liable under this section in respect of any injury,
loss or damage suffered by any person by reason of —

     (a) any failure to provide or delay in providing any supply of
          gas or any associated gas fitting or gas appliance; or

     (b) any failure, interruption, suspension or restriction of any
          supply of gas which has not been caused by the negligence
          of the gas transporter, licensed gas service worker or
          authorised officer, as the case may be.

Power to reduce supply pressure

 68. A gas transporter may, for operational reasons without incurring
any liability for so doing, reduce as it thinks fit the pressure of gas
supplied in any case, if at any time it is of the opinion that its gas
supply pressure is insufficient for the purposes of maintaining a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             116

normal supply of gas, and such pressure must be restored as soon as
reasonably practicable.

                                   PART 8A

                        SEVERE GAS SHORTAGE

Meaning of “severe gas shortage situation”

 68A. A severe gas shortage situation is a situation in which —

       (a) there is a shortage of natural gas imported into Singapore
            resulting in any gas importer providing less of such gas to
            any of its customers than is required under its arrangement
            with that customer (without taking into consideration any
            such gas to be provided on a reasonable endeavours basis
            under that arrangement); and

       (b) given the extent, and the likely period or the uncertainty of
            the period, of the shortage, the shortage will or is likely
            to —

               (i) threaten the security or stability of the supply of gas
                   or electricity in Singapore; or

              (ii) result in a severe loss of output from any industry
                   sector that uses natural gas as feedstock or fuel stock.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

Directions by Authority

 68B.—(1) Where the Authority considers that there is an imminent
or actual severe gas shortage situation, the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, give to any person or persons such
directions specified in subsection (2) as the Authority considers
necessary.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (2) The directions for the purpose of subsection (1) are for the
purpose of addressing or alleviating the severe gas shortage situation,
or preventing the severe gas shortage situation from occurring or
continuing, and may be issued at any one or more times before the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
117  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

severe gas shortage situation occurs or during the severe gas shortage
situation.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a direction may require any
person to whom the direction is given to do or not to do any thing,
including a direction to —

     (a) enter into or modify any agreement between the person
          directed and any other person;

     (b) terminate any agreement between the person directed and
          any other person;

     (c) give any consent or withhold the giving of any consent
         required under any agreement between the person directed
         and any other person; or

       (d) provide security for any compensation that the person
            directed may be liable to pay pursuant to section 68D.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (4) A direction under this section remains in force until revoked by
the Authority.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (5) Any person to whom a direction is given under this section who
fails to comply with the direction shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

     (a) to a fine not exceeding $1 million; and

     (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
          exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
          which the offence continues after conviction,

and section 19 does not apply to the direction.

                                                              [43/2018]

 (6) Any person who does any act which the person knows or ought
reasonably to know is or is likely to obstruct, hinder or otherwise
prevent a person to whom a direction is given under this section from
complying with the direction shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

     (a) to a fine not exceeding $1 million; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             118

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (7) No action, suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any
party to a contract or arrangement made before 3 May 2019, or in
relation to, any breach of that contract or arrangement, where such
breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned by, the compliance by
that party with any direction of the Authority issued under this Part.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

Requests for information, etc.

 68C.—(1) For the purpose of making a determination on any matter
under this Part (including whether or not a direction should be given
under this Part), the Authority or the Minister may, by written notice,
request for such information and document from such person
(including a person likely to be affected by a direction issued
under this Part) as the Authority or the Minister considers necessary.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (2) Any person who, upon a request mentioned in subsection (1) —

       (a) fails to comply with the request;

       (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any information
            or document required by the request; or

       (c) provides to the Authority or the Minister (as the case may
            be) any information or document that is false, misleading
            or inaccurate in a material particular, or recklessly provides
            any such information or document,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (3) Section 5 applies (with the necessary modifications) to
information and documents provided under this section to the
Authority or the Minister as it applies to information and
documents provided to the Authority under section 4.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
119  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Regulations for this Part, etc.

68D.—(1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing —

     (a) the circumstances in which any direction issued under
          section 68B may be modified;

     (b) the circumstances in which compensation is payable for
          any loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of a
          direction of the Authority given under section 68B, and for
          matters relating to the determination and payment of the
          compensation, including the following:

     (i) the constitution and appointment of the members of a
         panel (called in this Part a Pricing Panel) to
         determine matters concerning the compensation
         (including the amount), the qualifications of any of
         the members, the period of tenure of any of the
         members, and the circumstance in which a member
         may be disqualified from so acting;

     (ii) the remuneration and allowances of members of the
          Pricing Panel;

     (iii) the procedure to be adopted by the Pricing Panel in
           its proceedings and the records to be kept by the
           Pricing Panel;

     (iv) compelling the attendance of witnesses to give
          evidence to the Pricing Panel and the examination
          of witnesses under oath, and compelling the
          production of documents;

     (v) the treatment and usage of confidential information
          and documents received by the Pricing Panel;

     (vi) matters which the Pricing Panel must —

     (A) take into account in reckoning the
          compensation to be paid (including any
          quantifiable loss or damage suffered by any
          person as a result of any direction issued by the
          Authority under section 68B); or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             120

          (B) disregard in reckoning the compensation
               (including any quantifiable amount received
               or recoverable by any person who has suffered
               loss or damage mentioned in
               sub‑paragraph (A), that has the effect of
               compensating the person, in whole or in part,
               for that loss or damage),

          (vi) and to provide for such other principles as the
               Minister considers appropriate for the purpose of
               determining the compensation;

          (vii) the person or persons by whom the compensation (or
                any part of the compensation) is payable and the
                person or persons to whom the compensation (or any
                part of the compensation) is to be paid, and the
                manner of payment, as determined by the Pricing
                Panel;

          (viii) the circumstances in which the Pricing Panel may
                 review its determination of the compensation;

          (c) fees or charges for any thing done under this Part; and

       (d) anything which is required to be prescribed under this Part
            or which is necessary or expedient to be prescribed for
            carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this Part.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (2) The Minister may, in making regulations under this Part,
provide that any person who contravenes any regulation shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (3) Every member of a Pricing Panel, when and for so long as the
member acts as such, is taken to be a public servant within the
meaning of the Penal Code 1871, and enjoys the same judicial
immunity as is enjoyed by a District Judge.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
121  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Appeals to General Division of High Court

 68E.—(1) The person by whom and the person to whom
compensation is payable under section 68D may appeal to the
General Division of the High Court against a decision of a Pricing
Panel in relation to that compensation, upon any question of law or of
mixed law and fact.

                                                                                                [43/2018; 40/2019]

 (2) The procedure governing and the costs of such appeal to the
General Division of the High Court are as provided for in the Rules of
Court.

                                                                                                [43/2018; 40/2019]

 (3) The General Division of the High Court may hear and determine
any such appeal and may confirm, reduce, increase or annul the
decision of the Pricing Panel, and make such further or other order on
such appeal, whether as to costs or otherwise, as the General Division
of the High Court thinks fit.

                                                                                                [43/2018; 40/2019]

 (4) There is to be such further right of appeal from decisions of the
General Division of the High Court under this section as exists in the
case of decisions made by the General Division of the High Court in
the exercise of its original civil jurisdiction.

                                                                                                [43/2018; 40/2019]

Recovery of compensation

 68F. Compensation determined by a Pricing Panel under
section 68D as being payable by a person to another person, is a
debt due from the person to the other person.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

                                    PART 9

                               COMPETITION

Agreements, etc., preventing, restricting or distorting
competition

 69.—(1) Subject to section 71, agreements, decisions or concerted
practices by persons which have as their object or effect the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             122

prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in any gas market
in Singapore are prohibited.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies, in particular, to agreements, decisions or
concerted practices which —

(a) directly or indirectly fix purchase or selling prices or any
     other trading conditions of gas in Singapore;

(b) limit or control production, markets, technical
     development or investment in the gas industry in
     Singapore;

          (c) share markets or sources of supply of gas in Singapore;

(d) apply dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions with
     other trading parties, thereby placing them at a competitive
     disadvantage;

          (e) make the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance by
              the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by
              their nature or according to commercial usage, have no
              connection with the subject of such contracts; or

          (f) provide for the acquisition, directly or indirectly, of shares
              in or the assets of a gas licensee.

 (3) Subsection (1) applies only if the agreement, decision or
practice is, or is intended to be, implemented in Singapore.

 (4) Subject to section 71, an agreement or a decision which is
prohibited by subsection (1) is void.

 (5) Unless the context otherwise requires, a provision of this Part
which is expressed to apply to, or in relation to, an agreement is to be
read as applying, with the necessary modifications, equally to, or in
relation to, a decision by any person or a concerted practice.

 (6) Subsection (1) applies to agreements, decisions and concerted
practices implemented before, on or after 19 December 2003.

Abuse of dominant position

 70.—(1) Subject to section 71, any conduct on the part of one or
more persons which amounts to the abuse of a dominant position in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
123  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

any gas market in Singapore is prohibited if it may affect trade within
Singapore.

 (2) Conduct may, in particular, constitute such an abuse if it consists
in —

     (a) directly or indirectly imposing unfair purchase or selling
          prices or other unfair trading conditions of gas in
          Singapore;

     (b) limiting production, markets or technical developments in
          the gas industry in Singapore to the prejudice of
          consumers;

     (c) applying dissimilar conditions to equivalent transactions
         with other trading parties, thereby placing them at a
         competitive disadvantage; or

     (d) making the conclusion of contracts subject to acceptance
          by the other parties of supplementary obligations which, by
          their nature or according to commercial usage, have no
          connection with the subject of the contracts.

 (3) In this section, “dominant position” means a dominant position
within Singapore.

Exemption

 71.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, on
the application of any person or on its own initiative, grant an
exemption from section 69(1) or 70(1) to any agreement or conduct.

 (2) An exemption under subsection (1) —

       (a) may be granted subject to such conditions or obligations as
            the Authority considers appropriate;

       (b) has effect for such period as the Authority considers
            appropriate; and

       (c) must be in writing and sent by the Authority to the person
            to whom the exemption is granted.

 (3) The Authority must notify any applicant in writing of its
decision under subsection (1) not to grant an exemption.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             124

 (4) An exemption under this section, unless previously revoked in
accordance with the terms of such exemption, continues in force for
such period as is specified in such exemption.

 (5) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, on the
application of any person or on its own initiative —

(a) extend the period for which an exemption granted under
     subsection (1) has effect;

(b) vary or remove any condition or obligation specified in an
     exemption; or

          (c) impose additional conditions or obligations in an
              exemption.

Request for Authority to examine agreement or to consider
conduct, etc.

 72. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

       (a) to provide for persons who are parties to any agreement or
            conduct to apply to the Authority for guidance as to
            whether or not the agreement or conduct is likely to
            infringe section 69(1) or 70(1);

       (b) to provide for the procedure for an application under
            paragraph (a);

       (c) to prescribe any decision which the Authority may make
            and the effect of the decision; and

       (d) generally for giving full effect to the objective of this Part.

 72A. [Repealed by Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

Power to investigate

 73. The Authority may conduct an investigation if there are
reasonable grounds for suspecting that section 69(1) or 70(1) has
been infringed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
125  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Power when conducting investigation

 74.—(1) For the purposes of an investigation under section 73, the
Authority may, by written notice to any person, require that person to
produce to the Authority a specified document, or to provide the
Authority with specified information, which the Authority considers
relates to any matter relevant to the investigation.

(2) A notice under subsection (1) must indicate —

     (a) the subject matter and purpose of the investigation; and

     (b) the nature of the offences created by sections 80, 81 and 82.

(3) The Authority may also specify in the notice —

     (a) the time and place at which any document is to be produced
          or any information is to be provided; and

     (b) the manner and form in which it is to be produced or
          provided.

 (4) The power under this section to require a person to produce a
document includes the power —

     (a) if the document is produced —

     (i) to take copies of it or extracts from it; and

     (ii) to require such person, or any person who is a present
          or past officer of the firstmentioned person, or is or
          was at any time employed by the firstmentioned
          person, to provide an explanation of the document;
          and

     (b) if the document is not produced, to require such person to
          state, to the best of such person’s knowledge and belief,
          where it is.

(5) In subsection (1), “specified” means —

     (a) specified, or described, in the notice; or

     (b) falling within a category which is specified, or described,
          in the notice.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             126

Power to enter premises under warrant

 75.—(1) The Authority may apply to a District Court for a warrant
and the Court may issue such a warrant if it is satisfied that —

(a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are
     on any premises documents which are required to be
     produced under section 74; or

(b) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

          (i) there are on any premises documents which the
              Authority has power under section 74 to require to be
              produced; and

          (ii) if the documents were required to be produced, they
               would not be produced but would be concealed,
               removed, tampered with or destroyed.

 (2) A warrant under this section authorises a named officer of the
Authority, and any other of its officers whom the Authority has
authorised in writing to accompany the named officer —

(a) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
     force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

(b) to search the premises and take copies of, or extracts from,
     any document appearing to be of a kind in respect of which
     the application under subsection (1) was granted (the
     relevant kind);

          (c) to take possession of any document appearing to be of the
              relevant kind if —

          (i) such action appears to be necessary for preserving
              the document or preventing interference with it; or

          (ii) it is not reasonably practicable to take copies of the
               document on the premises;

(d) to take any other steps which appear to be necessary for the
     purpose mentioned in paragraph (c)(i);

          (e) to require any person to provide an explanation of any
              document appearing to be of the relevant kind or to state, to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
127  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     the best of the person’s knowledge and belief, where it may
     be found; and

     (f) to require any information which is held in a computer and
         is accessible from the premises and which the named
         officer considers relates to any matter relevant to the
         investigation, to be produced in a form —

     (i) in which it can be taken away; and

     (ii) in which it is visible and legible.

 (3) If, in the case of a warrant issued under subsection (1)(b), the
District Court is satisfied that it is reasonable to suspect that there are
also on the premises other documents relating to the investigation
concerned, the warrant also authorises the action mentioned in
subsection (2) to be taken in relation to any such document.

 (4) If there is no one at the premises when the named officer
proposes to execute such a warrant, he or she must, before executing
it —

     (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
          inform the occupier of the intended entry; and

     (b) if the occupier is so informed, afford the occupier, or the
          legal or other representative of the occupier, a reasonable
          opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (5) If the named officer is unable to inform the occupier of the
intended entry, the named officer must, when executing the warrant,
leave a copy of it in a prominent place on the premises.

 (6) On leaving any premises which the named officer has entered
by virtue of a warrant under this section, the named officer must, if
the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is temporarily absent,
leave them as effectively secured as the named officer found them.

 (7) A warrant under this section continues in force until the end of
the period of one month beginning from the day on which it is issued.

 (8) Any document of which possession is taken under
subsection (2)(c) may be retained for a period of 3 months.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.               Gas Act 2001                                128

(9) In this section —

“named officer” means the officer named in the warrant;

“occupier”, in relation to any premises, means a person whom
   the named officer reasonably believes is the occupier of those
   premises.

Privileged communication

 76. A person is not required, under any provision of this Part, to
produce or disclose a communication —

       (a) between a professional legal adviser and his or her client;
            or

       (b) made in connection with, or in contemplation of, legal
            proceedings and for the purposes of those proceedings,

which in proceedings in a court would be protected from disclosure
on grounds of privilege.

Decision following investigation

 77. Where, following an investigation conducted under section 73,
the Authority considers that section 69(1) or 70(1) has been infringed
and the Authority proposes to make a direction under section 78, the
Authority must —

       (a) give written notice to the person likely to be affected by
            such direction; and

       (b) give such person an opportunity to make representations to
            the Authority.

Enforcement and appeal

 78.—(1) Where the Authority has made a decision that
section 69(1) or 70(1) has been infringed, the Authority may give
directions to such person as the Authority considers appropriate to
bring the infringement to an end.

 (2) A direction referred to in subsection (1) may, in particular,
include provisions —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
129  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (a) where the decision is that any agreement infringes
          section 69(1) —

     (i) requiring the person to modify or terminate the
         agreement; and

     (ii) in the case of an agreement referred to in
          section 69(2)(f), requiring the person to dispose of
          all or any of the relevant shares or assets, otherwise
          than to an associated person, within a period
          specified in the direction, being not less than
          3 months after service of the direction; and

     (b) where the decision is that any conduct infringes
          section 70(1) —

     (i) requiring the person to modify the conduct in
         question; or

     (ii) requiring the person to cease that conduct; and

     (c) in either case, requiring the person —

     (i) to pay to the Authority a financial penalty in respect
         of the infringement of an amount not exceeding
         $1 million or 10% of the annual turnover of such
         person’s business in Singapore, ascertained from its
         latest audited accounts, whichever is the higher; and

     (ii) to provide a performance bond, guarantee or other
          form of security on such terms and conditions as the
          Authority may determine.

 (3) Where a person fails to comply with a direction referred to in
subsection (2)(a)(ii), the shares last registered in the name of that
person or the assets (as the case may be) that are the subject of the
acquisition and specified by the Authority by written notice served on
the person, are forfeited to the Government.

 (4) Any shares or assets forfeited to the Government under
subsection (3) must be sold by the Government as soon as
practicable and the proceeds of sale, after deduction of the
reasonable costs of the forfeiture and sale, must be paid to the
person from whom the shares or assets were forfeited.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             130

 (5) Any person who is aggrieved by any decision or direction of the
Authority under this Part may, within 14 days after receipt of the
notice referred to in section 79, appeal to the Appeal Panel under
Part 10.

 (6) An appeal under subsection (5) does not suspend the effect of a
decision or direction to which the appeal relates unless —

(a) otherwise allowed by the Minister; or

      (b) the appeal is against the imposition or the amount of a
           financial penalty.

                                                                                                         [24/2007]

(7) In this section —

“associated person” has the meaning given by section 76D(14)
   of the Companies Act 1967;

“relevant shares or assets” means any shares or assets of a gas
   licensee held by the person that would need to be disposed of
   in order to cause the acquisition to cease to have the object or
   effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition in
   the gas market in Singapore.

Notification

 79. The Authority must, within 14 days of the Authority making
any decision or direction under this Part, notify any person affected
by such decision or direction.

Offences

 80.—(1) A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed
on the person under section 74 or 75 shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) in
respect of a requirement to produce a document, it is a defence for the
person to prove that —

       (a) the document was not in the person’s possession or under
            the person’s control; and

       (b) it was not reasonably practicable for the person to comply
            with the requirement.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
131  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (3) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) in
respect of a requirement —

     (a) to provide information;

     (b) to provide an explanation of a document; or

     (c) to state where a document is to be found,

it is a defence for the person to prove that the person had a reasonable
excuse for failing to comply with the requirement.

 (4) Failure to comply with a requirement imposed under section 74
is not an offence if the person imposing the requirement has failed to
act in accordance with that section.

 (5) Any person who intentionally obstructs an officer in the
exercise of the officer’s powers under a warrant issued under
section 75 shall be guilty of an offence.

Destroying or falsifying documents

 81. Any person who, having been required to produce a document
under section 74 or 75 —

       (a) intentionally or recklessly destroys or otherwise disposes
            of it, falsifies it or conceals it; or

       (b) causes or permits its destruction, disposal, falsification or
            concealment,

shall be guilty of an offence.

False or misleading information

 82. Any person who provides information to the Authority or an
authorised officer in connection with any function or duty of the
Authority under this Part which is false or misleading in a material
particular shall be guilty of an offence.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             132

          PART 10

          APPEAL PANEL

Request to establish Appeal Panel

83.—(1) This section applies to —

(a) a gas licensee who wishes to appeal against a decision of
     the Authority to modify any condition of its gas licence
     under section 16; and

(b) any person who is aggrieved by a direction or decision of
     the Authority under Part 9.

(2) A person to whom this section applies may, within 14 days —

(a) of the receipt of a direction under section 16 to modify any
     condition of a gas licence; or

(b) of the receipt of a notification by the Authority of a
     direction or decision under Part 9,

notify the Minister that the person wishes to make an appeal,
providing adequate details of the grounds for the appeal and
requesting the Minister to establish an Appeal Panel to consider
and determine the appeal.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

 (3) When requested to establish an Appeal Panel, the Minister
must, upon consultation with the Authority, unless the request is in
the Minister’s opinion of a frivolous, trivial or vexatious nature,
establish an Appeal Panel within 30 days after the request to consider
and determine the appeal in question.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

Composition and procedure of Appeal Panel

 84.—(1) An Appeal Panel established by the Minister must consist
of at least 3 persons, one of whom is to be appointed by the Minister
to be the chairperson of the Appeal Panel.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (2) The Minister may, in establishing the Appeal Panel, provide
for —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
133  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (a) the terms and conditions of the membership of the Appeal
          Panel as the Minister considers appropriate;

     (b) the procedure to be adopted by the Appeal Panel in
          considering any matter referred to it; and

       (c) any other matters which the Minister considers incidental
            or expedient for the proper and efficient conduct of an
            appeal by the Appeal Panel.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (3) The remuneration and allowances (if any) of a member of an
Appeal Panel are to be determined by the Minister and —

     (a) subject to paragraph (b), form part of the expenses of the
          Authority; and

       (b) where the Appeal Panel is established for the purposes of
            section 38B, must be borne equally by the person
            concerned and G, or in any other proportion between the
            person concerned and G that the Appeal Panel may specify.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (4) An Appeal Panel must be independent in the performance of its
functions.

Powers of Appeal Panel

 85.—(1) An Appeal Panel must —

       (a) by notice to the Authority and the appellant; or

       (b) where the Appeal Panel is established for the purposes of
            section 38B, by notice to the person concerned and G,

specify the date on and the place at which the appeal is to be heard.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (2) An Appeal Panel has all the powers and duties of the Authority
that are necessary to carry out its functions and duties under this Act.

 (3) An Appeal Panel has the powers, rights and privileges vested in
a District Court on the hearing of an action, including —

       (a) the enforcement of the attendance of witnesses and their
            examination on oath or otherwise;

       (b) the compelling of the production of documents; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             134

       (c) the award of costs and expenses of and incidental to any
            proceedings before the Appeal Panel.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) A summons signed by any member of the Appeal Panel as may
be authorised by the Appeal Panel is equivalent to any formal
procedure capable of being issued in an action for enforcing the
attendance of witnesses and compelling the production of documents.

 (5) Where any person being duly summoned to attend before an
Appeal Panel does not so attend, that person shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (6) A witness before an Appeal Panel is entitled to the same
immunities and privileges as if he or she were a witness before a
District Court.

 (7) All appeals under this section are to be determined, having
regard to the nature and complexity of the appeal, as soon as
reasonably practicable.

 (8) In the case of a modification of any condition of a gas licence,
the Appeal Panel may either confirm the modification or direct the
Authority not to make the modification, and the decision of the
Appeal Panel is final.

 (9) In the case of a direction or decision of the Authority under
Part 9, the Appeal Panel may either confirm, vary or reverse the
direction or decision of the Authority or direct the Authority to
reconsider the direction or decision, and the Appeal Panel’s decision
is final.

 (10) An Appeal Panel established by the Minister to consider and
determine an appeal under section 93(3) may determine the appeal
by —

(a) confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction
     of the Authority; or

(b) directing the Authority to reconsider its decision or
     direction,

and the decision of the Appeal Panel is final.

                                                                   [24/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
135  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

 (11) The Appeal Panel must notify the appellant of its decision in
respect of the appellant’s appeal and the reasons for its decision.

 (12) Where an Appeal Panel is established for the purposes of
section 38B, the Appeal Panel must notify the person and G of its
decision in respect of the terms of the agreement required to be
determined by it, and the reasons for its decision.

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

                                    PART 11

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Keeping of register

 86.—(1) The Authority must, at such location and in such form as it
may determine, maintain a register for the purposes of this section.

 (2) Subject to any direction under subsection (3), the Authority
must cause to be entered in the register —

       (a) the provisions of every licence or exemption granted to any
            person under Part 3 and the details of every licence or
            exemption revoked;

       (b) the details of a relevant facility in respect of which the
            Authority has granted an exemption under section 38(8);

       (c) the details of every licensed gas service worker;

       (d) the provisions of an exemption granted under section 71
            and the details of any exemption revoked;

       (e) the provisions of an exemption granted under section 94;

        (f) the details of every modification made to a gas licence; and

       (g) any other matters as the Authority thinks fit.

 (3) If it appears to the Minister that the entry of any provision or
detail in the register would be against the public interest, he or she
may direct the Authority not to make the entry in the register.

 (4) The register must be available for inspection by the public
during such hours and subject to the payment of such fee as may be
specified by the Authority.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.             Gas Act 2001                                  136

Effect of direction

 87.—(1) The obligation to comply with any direction made by the
Authority is a duty owed to any person who may be affected by a
contravention of it.

 (2) Where a duty is owed by virtue of subsection (1) to any person,
any breach of the duty which causes that person to sustain loss or
damage is actionable at the suit or instance of that person.

 (3) In any proceedings brought against any person under
subsection (2), it is a defence for the person to prove that the
person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to
avoid contravening the relevant direction.

 (4) Without prejudice to any right which any person may have
under subsection (2) to bring civil proceedings in respect of any
contravention of any relevant direction, compliance with any such
direction is enforceable by civil proceedings by the Authority for an
injunction or for any other appropriate relief.

Jurisdiction of court

 88. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court and a Magistrate’s Court have
jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act and have power to
impose the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under
this Act.

Offences by body corporate

 89. Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company, firm, society or other body of persons, any person who, at
the time of the commission of the offence, was a director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer or a partner of the company, firm,
society or other body of persons or was purporting to act in any such
capacity, shall be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly unless the person proves
that —

       (a) the offence was committed without the person’s consent or
            connivance; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
137  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (b) the person had exercised all such due diligence to prevent
          the commission of the offence as the person ought to have
          exercised, having regard to the nature of the person’s
          functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances.

Fee or financial penalty recoverable

 90. Any fee or financial penalty required to be paid to the Authority
under this Act may be recovered by it in any court of competent
jurisdiction as if it were a simple contract debt.

General penalties

 91. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Composition of offences

 92.—(1) The Authority may, in its discretion, compound any
offence under this Act which is prescribed as a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding $3,000.

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences which may be compounded.

Payment into Consolidated Fund

 92A. All composition sums collected by the Authority under
section 92 and all financial penalties collected by the Authority
under this Act, must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [43/2018]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.            Gas Act 2001                                   138

Appeal to Minister

93.—(1) A person aggrieved by —

(a) any decision of the Authority in the exercise of any
     discretion vested in it by or under this Act, except for
     section 27(12) or 38B(6); or

                                                                    [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

(b) any direction issued by the Authority under this Act,

may, except where provision has been made under this Act for an
appeal to be made to an Appeal Panel, appeal to the Minister.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (2) An appeal under subsection (1) does not suspend the effect of a
decision or direction to which the appeal relates unless —

(a) otherwise provided in this Act or allowed by the Minister;
     or

       (b) the appeal is against the imposition or the amount of a
            financial penalty.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Where the Minister considers that an appeal made to the
Minister involves issues of such nature or complexity that it ought to
be considered and determined by persons with particular technical or
other specialised knowledge, the Minister may establish by direction
an Appeal Panel, comprising one or more of such persons with
particular technical or other specialised knowledge and such other
persons as the Minister considers appropriate, to consider and
determine the appeal.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (4) Any person who has made an appeal to the Minister must
provide such information and documents as may be required by the
Minister (whether for the purpose of deciding if an Appeal Panel
should be established or for determining the appeal) in such manner
and within such period as may be specified by the Minister.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

 (5) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by —

(a) confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction
     of the Authority; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
139  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (b) directing the Authority to reconsider its decision or
          direction,

and the decision of the Minister is final.                    [24/2007]
 (6) The Minister may make regulations prescribing —

     (a) the time and manner in which an appeal must be made
          under this section; and

     (b) the procedure to be adopted in determining any appeal by
          the Minister under this section.

                                                                                                      [43/2018]

General exemption

 94. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister and by
order in the Gazette, exempt any person or premises or any class of
persons or premises, subject to such conditions or restrictions as may
be specified in the order, from any or all of the provisions of this Act
other than sections 6 to 10 and 63B.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Service of documents

 95.—(1) Any notice, order or document required or authorised by
this Act to be given or served on any person, and any summons issued
by a court in connection with any offence under this Act may be
served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of his or her family at his or her last known place
            of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by affixing it to some conspicuous part of the person’s last
            known place of residence;

       (d) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             140

          (e) where the person to be served is a body corporate —

          (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
              of the body corporate at its registered or principal
              office; or

          (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the body
               corporate at its registered or principal office.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, order, document or
summons would, in the ordinary course of post, be delivered and in
proving service of the notice, order, document or summons, it is
sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the same was
properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

Regulations

 96.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for or in respect of every purpose which it considers
necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out its functions
and duties under, and implementing the provisions of, this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or in respect of all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) the prevention and suppression of pollution, contamination
            or waste of gas;

       (b) the prevention of misuse of, or damage to, apparatus and
            works owned by, or under the control or management of, a
            gas transporter or used for the purposes of conveying or
            supplying gas;

       (c) the prescribing of materials of which conduits, pipes, and
            other apparatus and fittings for use in connection with the
            supply of gas must be made, and in respect of their size,
            shape, fitting, arrangement, connection, quality and
            workmanship, testing and inspection and cleaning;

       (d) the protection of the public from dangers arising from the
            conveyance, supply and use of gas or from any gas plant or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
141  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     gas appliance and the elimination, reduction or prevention
     of risks of personal injury, damage to property or the
     interference with the use thereof;

     (e) the regulation of matters relating to the charging in of gas
         to the premises of consumers by any gas transporter;

     (f) the release of a gas retailer from any obligation owed to a
         consumer;

     (g) the regulation of the construction, laying or placing of a gas
          pipeline in, on, over, upon, under, across or along any land
          and the submission and approval of plans relating thereto;

     (h) the prescribing of standards of quality and pressure of gas
          to be complied with by a gas transporter conveying gas to
          premises and standards with respect to the properties,
          composition and other characteristics of gas, including the
          odorisation of gas so conveyed;

     (i) the regulation of the appointment of independent and
         impartial persons to carry out tests of gas conveyed by a
         gas transporter, and all matters relating thereto;

     (j) the regulation of the construction, pattern, type,
         specification and other characteristics of meters and the
         appointment of independent and impartial persons to
         examine meters and to carry out the stamping of meters
         where appropriate and all matters relating thereto;

     (k) the prescribing of requirements regarding the maintenance,
         inspection, repair, removal and replacement and
         repositioning of a meter at a consumer’s premises and
         for the keeping in proper order, for the purposes of
         recording the quantity of gas supplied, of a meter made
         available or owned by a gas licensee or belonging to a
         consumer or other person;

     (l) the installation and use of meters, and the prohibition of
         interference with or damage to a meter or any seal or stamp
         affixed to or made to a meter;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             142

(m) the prescribing of methods for determining the charges
     payable by a consumer in the event a meter is found to be
     defective or otherwise registering erroneously;

(n) the conversion of a gas pipeline network and gas
     appliances so as to allow for the conveyance of natural
     gas in the gas pipeline network and supply to such gas
     appliance, including —

          (i) regulating the manner of the conversion;

          (ii) the interconnection of gas pipeline networks;

          (iii) conferring on any person authorised by a gas
                transporter or gas retailer —

          (A) the power to obtain information and documents
               from any person necessary for the purposes of
               the conversion and interconnection; and

          (B) the power to enter any premises to carry out
               any inspection or perform any work relating to
               such conversion and interconnection; and

          (iv) the circumstances and the manner in which the
               supply of gas to any premises may be terminated
               (despite any agreement for such supply), if the
               conversion is not or if it appears that the conversion
               cannot be carried out successfully for the premises or
               any part of the premises;

(o) the regulation of the introduction of competition in the
     natural gas industry and the timing of such introduction;

(p) the regulation of the installation, use, maintenance and
     repair of any gas plant by a consumer where required for
     the purpose of —

          (i) avoiding pressure fluctuation in a gas pipeline or gas
              pipeline network owned by, or under the
              management or control of, a gas transporter; or

          (ii) preventing the admission of gas into a gas main or
               gas service pipe,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
143  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (p) and for the removal, testing and replacing of any such gas
          plant by a gas transporter;

     (q) the regulation of the inspection, maintenance, repair and
          renewal of —

     (i) onshore receiving facilities or LNG terminals; or

     (ii) gas installations or gas service pipes, including —

     (A) the person that a gas transporter or person
          prescribed under section 29(3) must engage to
          carry out the inspection, maintenance, repair or
          renewal; and

     (B) any information or document to be submitted
          in connection with the inspection,
          maintenance, repair or renewal, by whom and
          to whom the information or document must be
          submitted and the time for the submission,

           (ii) and the recovery of costs incurred by a gas
                transporter in connection with the inspection,
                maintenance, repair or renewal;

                                                                         [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

     (r) the prescribing of technical and standards of performance
         in connection with the provision of gas supply services by
         a gas retailer to consumers and the conveyance of gas by a
         gas transporter and for the publication of the levels of
         performance achieved;

     (s) the prescribing of terms that will be held to apply as
         between a gas retailer and a consumer where the gas
         retailer supplies gas to a consumer other than in accordance
         with the terms of a contract and for such terms to be
         approved by the Authority;

     (t) the safety, technical or economic regulation of any gas
         pipeline or gas pipeline network whether located onshore
         or offshore;

     (u) the governing of the exercise of the power of the gas
          transporter to recover expenditure under section 24;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             144

          (v) the conferring on any authorised person of the relevant
              power, where it is in the authorised person’s opinion
              necessary to do so, for the purpose of averting danger to
              life or property, and to disconnect and seal off any gas
              fitting or any part of the gas pipeline network on the
              premises, or disconnect the premises or, if the premises are
              not connected, to signify the refusal of the relevant person
              to convey gas or (as the case may be) allow gas to be
              conveyed to the premises and the making of provision
              for —

          (i) securing that, where any such power is exercised, the
              consumer will be notified as to the cause of the
              exercise of power;

          (ii) enabling any consumer so notified to appeal to the
               Authority on grounds that the exercise of the power
               was unjustified;

          (iii) enabling the Authority to give such directions in
                consequence of any such appeal; and

          (iv) prohibiting any person, subject to such conditions as
               the Authority may prescribe, from re‑connecting any
               gas fitting or any part of any gas pipeline network or
               any premises which have been disconnected or
               causing gas from a gas main to be conveyed to any
               premises;

(w) the regulation of gas service work and the licensing of gas
     service workers, including —

          (i) the approval and control of the standards and safety
              requirements for gas installations, gas fittings, gas
              appliances and any other associated equipment;

          (ii) the regulation of the installation, removal and
               modification of gas appliances; and

          (iii) the prohibition of the use, sale or hire of gas
                appliances and other associated equipment and
                materials;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
145  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (x) the safety, technical or economic regulation of any
         LNG terminal or onshore receiving facility;

     (y) the regulation of matters relating to the import of gas,
         including the quantity of gas that may be imported and the
         mode of such import;

     (z) the prescribing of fees and charges and their method of
         payment for the purposes of this Act;

      (za) the prescribing of any service provided in connection with
            the performance of any function or duty of the Authority,
            for which the Authority may charge a price by way of
            agreement with the person to whom the service is provided
            (instead of prescribing the price);

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

      (zb) anything required to be prescribed or in relation to which
            regulations may be made under this Act.

                                                                                                [24/2007; 43/2018]

                                                                               [Act 27 of 2024 wef 01/07/2025]

 (3) The Authority may, in making any regulations, provide that any
person who contravenes the regulations shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) All such regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (2)(v), “relevant person”
means —

     (a) in relation to dangers arising from the conveyance of gas
          by a gas transporter, or from the use of gas conveyed by
          such a gas transporter, that gas transporter; and

     (b) in relation to dangers arising from the conveyance of gas
          by a person other than a gas transporter, or from the use of
          gas conveyed by such a person, the Authority.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             146

Incorporation by reference

 96A.—(1) The regulations made under this Act may apply, adopt or
incorporate by reference —

(a) wholly or partially;

(b) with or without any addition, omission or substitution; or

          (c) specifically or by reference,

any code of practice, standard, requirement, specification or other
document that relates to any subject matter of any regulations made
under this Act (called in this section the material), as in force or
published at a particular time or as in force or published from time to
time.

 (2) The material mentioned in subsection (1) may be material
issued by the Authority, or material issued by any standards setting
organisation, or other organisation or person.

 (3) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated by reference in
the regulations under subsection (1) is to be treated for all purposes as
forming part of the regulations.

 (4) Unless otherwise provided in the regulations, where the
material is applied, adopted or incorporated by reference as in
force or published from time to time, every amendment to the
material that is made by the organisation or person that issued the
material is to be treated as being a part of those regulations.

 (5) Where any material is applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any provision of any regulations, the Authority must give
notice in the Gazette stating —

(a) that the material is applied, adopted or incorporated in the
     regulations, and the date from which the material is so
     applied, adopted or incorporated;

(b) that the material is available for inspection, free of charge,
     and the place at which such material may be inspected;

          (c) that copies of the material can be purchased, and the place
              where the material can be purchased; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
147  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (d) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
          details of where or how the material can be accessed or
          obtained.

 (6) In addition, the Authority must cause a copy of every material
applied, adopted or incorporated by reference in the regulations under
subsection (1), to be made available for inspection by members of the
public without charge at any of its offices during normal office hours.

 (7) To avoid doubt, any part of the material that is not applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in the regulations under
subsection (1) has no legislative effect.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

Advisory guidelines

 96B.—(1) The Authority may issue advisory guidelines for the
purposes of providing practical guidance or certainty in respect of any
one or more requirements imposed by or under this Act.

 (2) The Authority may consult with such person as the Authority
thinks fit for the purpose of preparing any advisory guidelines under
subsection (1).

 (3) The advisory guidelines may —

       (a) be of general or specific application; or

       (b) specify that different provisions of the advisory guidelines
            apply to different circumstances, or are applicable to
            different persons or classes of persons.

 (4) The Authority may amend or revoke the whole or part of any
advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1).

 (5) Advisory guidelines issued or amended under this section do
not have any legislative effect.

 (6) Where, in any administrative proceedings commenced in
connection with this Act, any provision in this Act to which any
advisory guidelines issued under subsection (1) relate is alleged to
have been contravened, then —

       (a) compliance with such guidelines; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             148

(b) a contravention of or failure to comply with, whether by act
     or omission, such guidelines,

may be relied upon by any party to those proceedings as tending to
negative or establish the contravention which is in question in those
proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 37 of 2021 wef 01/09/2025]

 97. [Omitted as having had effect]

                                   PART 12

                     TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Transfer of property, rights, obligations and liabilities for
separation of gas transporting and retailing business

 98.—(1) On such date as the Minister may determine, such
property (whether movable or immovable and whether tangible or
intangible), rights, obligations and liabilities comprised in any gas
company specified by the Minister —

       (a) in which the Government has an interest; and

       (b) which is agreed to by the Minister for Finance for the
            purposes of this section,

(transferor undertaking) are to become, by virtue of this section and
without further assurance, the property, rights, obligations and
liabilities of such other gas company specified by the Minister —

       (c) in which the Government has an interest; and

       (d) which is agreed to by the Minister for Finance for the
            purposes of this section,

(transferee undertaking) in such manner of distribution or allocation
and on such terms as to compensation or otherwise, as determined by
the Minister and agreed to by the Minister for Finance and set out in a
scheme under regulations made by the Minister for the purposes of
this section.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (2) Any immovable property to be transferred to a transferee
undertaking under subsection (1) is to be held by such transferee

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
149  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

undertaking upon such tenure and subject to such terms and
conditions as the Minister may determine.

 (3) If any question arises as to whether any particular property,
right, obligation or liability of any transferor undertaking has been
transferred to a transferee undertaking, a certificate signed by the
Minister for Finance is conclusive evidence that the property, right,
obligation or liability was or was not so transferred.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1) and section 99, the Minister
may determine one or more dates on which the provisions of this Part
may have effect and where the Minister does so determine, the
provisions of this Part are to be construed accordingly and have effect
on each such date.

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Minister may direct that
an undertaking be incorporated for such purposes as the Minister may
determine for furthering the objectives of this Part.

 (6) No claim for any loss may be brought against the Government in
relation to any act or thing done for the purposes of this Part.

 (7) The Minister may at any time vary the terms of any transfer of
property, rights, obligations or liabilities under this section.

 (8) In this section, a reference to the Government having an interest
in a gas company is to be read as a reference to the Government
having an interest in any share in the gas company, whether directly
or through one or more other persons.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Existing agreements, etc.

 99.—(1) Except as may be prescribed by the Minister, all deeds,
bonds, agreements and other arrangements subsisting immediately
prior to the date determined by the Minister under section 98(1)
affecting any property, rights, obligations and liabilities transferred
under that section are to continue in full force and effect on and after
that date and are enforceable by or against the transferee undertaking
to which the transfer was made as if instead of the transferor
undertaking the transferee undertaking was named therein or had
been a party thereto.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.  Gas Act 2001                                             150

 (2) Despite subsection (1), any right, obligation or liability as may
have accrued under any deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement
to which subsection (1) applies prior to the date determined by the
Minister under section 98(1) continues to be enforceable by or against
the transferor undertaking and not by or against the transferee
undertaking.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) For the purpose of subsection (2), any proceedings, or any cause
of action, relating to property, rights, obligations or liabilities
transferred under section 98 pending or existing prior to the date
determined by the Minister under section 98(1) by or against the
transferor undertaking from which such property, rights, obligations
or liabilities were transferred are to be continued, or are to be
enforced, by or against the transferor undertaking, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

Waiver of prohibition of transfer

 100.—(1) Any provision in any existing contract, agreement,
conveyance, deed, lease, guarantee, bond, indemnity and other
instrument or undertaking to which the transferor undertaking is a
party or may be bound prohibiting or having the effect of prohibiting
the transfer of the property, rights, obligations or liabilities under this
Part is deemed by this Act to have been waived.

 (2) Any provision in any existing contract, agreement, conveyance,
deed, lease, guarantee, bond, indemnity and other instrument or
undertaking to which the transferor undertaking is a party or may be
bound conferring on the other party or parties thereto any right of first
refusal or pre‑emption rights in respect of any property, right,
obligation or liability comprised in the undertakings to be transferred
by reason of or arising from, or to the effect that a default occurs or is
deemed to occur as a result of, the transfer or intended transfer of the
property, right, obligation or liability under this Part is deemed by this
Act to have been waived.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
151  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Power to make regulations and issue directions, etc.

 101.—(1) The Minister may make regulations and may issue
directions for such purposes as the Minister may determine for the
purposes of giving effect to, or furthering the objectives of, this Part.

(2) The Minister may, in making regulations —

     (a) provide that any person who contravenes any regulations
          shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
          conviction to a fine not exceeding 10% of the annual
          turnover of the person’s gas business ascertained from that
          person’s latest audited accounts, or an amount not
          exceeding $1 million, whichever is the higher, or to
          imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
          both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
          fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
          during which the offence continues after conviction;

     (b) where any regulations require the transferor undertaking to
          do or not to do any thing, provide that the obligation of the
          transferor undertaking to comply with such regulations is a
          duty owed to the transferee undertaking and any breach of
          such duty is actionable at the suit or instance of the
          transferee undertaking who has a right of action for relief
          in civil proceedings in a court under the relevant regulation
          against the transferor undertaking, subject to such
          limitations as the Minister may prescribe; and

       (c) where any regulations require the transferee undertaking to
            do or not to do any thing, provide that the obligation of the
            transferee undertaking to comply with such regulations is a
            duty owed to the transferor undertaking and any breach of
            such duty is actionable at the suit or instance of the
            transferor undertaking who has a right of action for relief in
            civil proceedings in a court under the relevant regulation
            against the transferee undertaking, subject to such
            limitations as the Minister may prescribe.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (3) Where the Minister issues any direction requiring any person to
do or not to do any thing and the person contravenes such direction,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
2020 Ed.      Gas Act 2001                                         152

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding 10% of the annual turnover of the
person’s gas business ascertained from that person’s latest audited
accounts, or an amount not exceeding $1 million, whichever is the
higher, or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (4) Where the Minister issues any direction —

(a) requiring the transferor undertaking to provide to the
     transferee undertaking any information, warranty or other
     statement; or

(b) requiring the transferee undertaking to provide to the
     transferor undertaking any information, warranty or other
     statement,

the undertaking required to provide the information, warranty or
other statement (the firstmentioned undertaking) is under an
obligation to ensure that such information, warranty or other
statement provided to the other undertaking (the second‑mentioned
undertaking) is not false, inaccurate, incomplete or misleading.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (5) The obligation of the firstmentioned undertaking referred to in
subsection (4) is a duty owed to the second‑mentioned undertaking
and any breach of such duty which causes the second‑mentioned
undertaking to sustain any loss or damage is actionable at the suit or
instance of the second‑mentioned undertaking who has a right of
action for relief in civil proceedings in a court under this subsection
against the firstmentioned undertaking, subject to such limitations as
the Minister may prescribe.

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

 (6) The court may grant to the claimant in an action under the
relevant regulation referred to in subsection (2) or under
subsection (4) (as the case may be) all or any of the following reliefs:

(a) relief by way of injunction or declaration;

(b) damages;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
153  Gas Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

     (c) any other relief that the court thinks fit.

                                                              [24/2007]

                   [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) No contravention by any party of any regulations or directions
made under this Part avoids the transfer of any property, rights,
obligations or liabilities effected under section 98(1).

                                                                                                           [24/2007]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
      GAS ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 11 of 2001 — Gas Act 2001

Date of First Reading     : 22 February 2001
                                (Bill No. 10/2001 published on
                                23 February 2001)

Date of Second and Third  : 16 March 2001
Readings

Date of commencement      : 23 July 2003
                                19 December 2003
                                11 June 2007
                                14 February 2008

2. Act 24 of 2007 — Gas (Amendment) Act 2007

Date of First Reading     : 10 April 2007
                                (Bill No. 18/2007 published on
                                11 April 2007)

Date of Second and Third  : 21 May 2007
Readings

Dates of commencement     : 8 June 2007 (Section 36)
                                11 June 2007 (Sections 2 to 6, 8 to 13,
                                15 to 35 and 37)
                                14th February 2008 (Sections 7 and
                                14)

3. Act 43 of 2018 — Gas (Amendment) Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 10 September 2018 (Bill No. 36/2018
                                published on 10 September 2018)

Date of Second and Third  : 1 October 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 3 May 2019

4. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018

Date of First Reading     : 10 September 2018 (Bill No. 32/2018
                                published on 10 September 2018)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                          ii

Date of Second and Third  : 1 October 2018
Readings

Date of commencement      : 30 July 2020

5. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019

Date of First Reading     : 7 October 2019
                                (Bill No. 32/2019)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 November 2019
Readings

Date of commencement      : 2 January 2021

6. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 3 November 2020 (Bill No. 45/2020
                                published on 3 November 2020)

Date of Second and Third  : 5 January 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 March 2021

7. 2020 Revised Edition — Gas Act 2001

Date of operation         : 31 December 2021

8. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                 Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Date of Commencement      : 13 January 2022

9. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 26 July 2021
                                (Bill No. 18/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 14 September 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 April 2022

10. Act 37 of 2021 — Energy (Resilience Measures and Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2021

Date of First Reading     : 4 October 2021
                                (Bill No. 34/2021)

Date of Second and Third  : 2 November 2021
Readings

Date of commencement      : 29 January 2022
                                1 September 2025

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                          iii

11. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022

Date of First Reading     : 12 September 2022
                                (Bill No. 24/2022)

Date of Second and Third  : 3 October 2022
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 September 2025

12. Act 27 of 2024 — Energy Transition Measures and Other Amendments
                             Act 2024

Date of First Reading     : 6 August 2024
                                (Bill No. 27/2024)

Date of Second and Third  : 9 September 2024
Readings

Date of commencement      : 1 July 2025
                                1 September 2025

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
                   COMPARATIVE TABLE
                        GAS ACT 2001

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2002 Ed.
                   4—(1A)
4—(2)
   (3)                (2)
   (4)                (3)
   (5)                (4)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
   (8)                (6A)
   (9)                (7)
   (10)               (8)
                   33—(4) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
—                  34—(3A)
34—(4)                (4)
                      (5)
   (5)                (6)
   (6)                (7)
   (7)             38—(4A)
   (8)                (5)
38—(5)                (6)
   (6)                (7)
   (7)                (8)
   (8)                (9)
   (9)                (10)
   (10)               (11)
   (11)               (12)
   (12)
   (13)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
         2020 Ed.  ii

47—(2)                                2002 Ed.
   (3)              47—(1A)
   (4)
   (5)                  (1B)
                        (2)
63A                     (3)
—                   63A—(1)
—                       (2) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
—                       (3) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
—                       (4) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
63B—(2)                 (5) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
                    63B—(1A)
   (3)                  (2)
   (4)                  (3)
—                       (4) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
—                       (5) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
—                   63G—(2) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
63G—(2)                 (3)
   (3)                  (4)
   (4)                  (5)
78—(6)              78—(5A)
   (7)                  (6)
85—(10)             85—(9A)
   (11)                 (10)
—                   92—(3) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
—                   93—(2) [Deleted by Act 43 of 2018]
93—(2)                  (3)
   (3)                  (4)
   (4)                  (5)
   (5)                  (6)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
         2020 Ed.  iii

   (6)                                 2002 Ed.
99—(2)                  (7)
                     99—(1A)
   (3)                  (2)
—                    101—(2) [Deleted by Act 4 of 2021]
101—(2)                 (3)
                        (4)
   (3)                  (5)
   (4)                  (6)
   (5)                  (7)
   (6)                  (8)
   (7)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/9/2025
