Western Australia
Higher Education Act 2004

Western Australia
Higher Education Act 2004
Contents
	Part 1 — Preliminary
1.	Short title	2
2.	Commencement	2
3.	Terms used	2
4.	Providing a course of study — interpretation	4
5.	Making representations — interpretation	4
	Part 2 — Establishing and maintaining standards for higher education
	Division 1 — Protection of standards for higher education
6.	Protection of titles and awards	5
7A.	Representations about authorisation to accredit higher education courses	6
7B.	Representations about admissions into higher education courses	6
	Division 2 — Universities
	Subdivision 1 — Report about criteria for establishing Australian university
7.	Report about criteria for establishing Australian university	7
	Subdivision 2 — Recognition of overseas universities
8.	Recognised overseas universities	8
9.	Applications for s. 10 determination	8
10.	Recognition of overseas universities	9
11A.	Further conditions on s. 10 determination	10
11.	Suspension or revocation of s. 10 determination	10
	Division 3 — Nonuniversity institutions
	Subdivision 1 — Authorised nonuniversity institutions
12.	Authorised nonuniversity institutions	11
	Subdivision 2 — Selfaccrediting authorisation of nonuniversity institutions
13A.	Applications for grant of selfaccrediting authorisation	12
13B.	Selfaccrediting authorisation of nonuniversity institutions	12
13C.	Further conditions on selfaccrediting authorisation	14
13D.	Suspension or revocation of selfaccrediting authorisation	14
	Subdivision 3 — Provider’s authorisation of nonuniversity institutions
13.	Applications for provider’s authorisations	15
14.	Authorisation of nonuniversity institutions	16
15A.	Duration of provider’s authorisation	17
15B.	Further conditions on provider’s authorisation	17
15.	Suspension or revocation of provider’s authorisation	18
	Subdivision 4 — Accredited higher education courses
16.	Accredited higher education courses	19
	Subdivision 5 — Ministerial accreditation of higher education courses
17A.	Application of this Subdivision	19
17.	Applications for ministerial accreditation	19
18.	Ministerial accreditations	20
19A.	Duration of accreditation	21
19B.	Further conditions on accreditation	22
19.	Suspension or revocation of ministerial accreditation	22
	Division 4 — Higher education advisory committees
20.	Higher education advisory committees	23
21A.	Report of higher education advisory committee to be provided to applicant	24
21.	Remuneration of advisory committee members	25
	Part 3A — Reviews and investigation
22.	Review of operations	26
23A.	Inspectors, appointment of	26
23B.	Inspectors’ powers	27
23C.	Consequences of investigations	28
	Part 3 — Other matters
23.	Register of Higher Education	29
24A.	Minister to make National Protocols available for inspection	29
24.	Delegation by Minister	30
25.	Act binds Crown	30
26A.	Protection from liability	30
26.	Disclosure of information	31
27A.	Evidentiary matters	31
27.	Vicarious liability for corporations	32
28.	Agreement to pay costs of considering application or request	32
29.	Recovery of fees	33
30.	Regulations	33
	Notes
Compilation table	35


Western Australia
Higher Education Act 2004
An Act to provide for recognition of Australian and overseas universities, authorisation of other higher education institutions and accreditation of higher education courses, and for related purposes.
Part 1 — Preliminary
1.	Short title
		This Act may be cited as the Higher Education Act 2004 1.
2.	Commencement
		This Act comes into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent 1.
3.	Terms used
		In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears —
	accredited, in relation to a course of study, means accredited for the purposes of this Act as provided by section 16;
	Australian Qualifications Framework means the framework of educational qualification stated in the implementation handbook for that framework published by the Australian Qualifications Framework Advisory Board as in force from time to time;
	Australian university means an education institution, or part of an education institution, that —
	(a)	was originally established in Australia; and
	(b)	is established or recognised as a university by or under a written law of this State, the Commonwealth, another State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory;
	Australian university college means an education institution, or part of an education institution, that —
	(a)	was originally established in Australia; and
	(b)	is established or recognised as a university college by or under a written law of this State, the Commonwealth, another State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory;
	authorised nonuniversity institution means a nonuniversity institution that is authorised under section 12 to provide a higher education course;
	company has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001 of the Commonwealth;
	course provider, in relation to a higher education course, means the education institution that provides, offers to provide or proposes to provide the course;
	education institution means a company or other body that provides, offers to provide or proposes to provide a course of study;
	education Minister means the Minister of State of the Commonwealth, for a State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory who is principally responsible for the administration of the law relating to higher education in the respective jurisdiction;
	higher education advisory committee means a person or persons appointed under section 20;
	higher education award means a qualification referred to in the Australian Qualifications Framework as a qualification that is issued in the higher education sector;
	higher education course means a course of study that entitles a person who satisfies the course requirements to the conferral of a higher education award;
	ministerial accreditation, in relation to a higher education course, means accreditation under section 18;
	National Protocols means —
	(a)	the National Protocols for Higher Education Approval Processes approved by the Ministerial Council on Education, Employment, Training and Youth Affairs on 31 March 2000, as amended from time to time; or
	(b)	if the regulations declare a document to be in substitution for that protocol — a reference to the substitute document, as amended from time to time;
	nonuniversity institution means an education institution that is not —
	(a)	an Australian university; or
	(ba)	an Australian university college; or
	(b)	a recognised overseas university;
	overseas university means an education institution that —
	(a)	was originally established in another country; and
	(b)	is established, recognised or accredited as a university by the appropriate authorities of that country;
	payment agreement means an agreement referred to in section 28;
	provider’s authorisation means an authorisation granted for a nonuniversity institution under section 14;
	recognised overseas university has the meaning given in section 8;
	represent has the meaning given in section 5;
	section 10 determination, in relation to an education institution, means a determination made under section 10;
	selfaccrediting authorisation means an authorisation granted for a nonuniversity institution under section 13B.
	[Section 3 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 4.]
4.	Providing a course of study — interpretation
		For the purposes of this Act, a person provides a course of study if the institution or an agent of the institution enrols or offers to enrol students to undertake the course, whether the course is provided facetoface or at a distance by post, fax, email or any other means.
5.	Making representations — interpretation
		For the purposes of this Act, a person represents that a state of affairs exists if the person does or says anything, or allows anything to be done or said, by which it is represented, or by which a belief may be induced, that the state of affairs exists.
Part 2 — Establishing and maintaining standards for higher education
Division 1 — Protection of standards for higher education
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 5.]
6.	Protection of titles and awards
	(1)	An education institution or an agent of an education institution must not, by use of the title “university” or in any other way, represent that the education institution is a university or part of a university unless it is —
	(a)	an Australian university; or
	(b)	a recognised overseas university.
	Penalty: a fine of $20 000.
	(2)	Subsection (1) does not apply to —
	(a)	the organisation known as “U3A” (the “University of the Third Age”); or
	(b)	a prescribed person or organisation; or
	(c)	an Australian university college or an agent of such an institution that represents that the institution is a university college or part of a university college —
	(i)	by use of a title that includes the words “university college”; or
	(ii)	in any other way.
	(3)	A person must not confer or offer to confer or purport to confer a higher education award on anyone unless the person is —
	(a)	an Australian university; or
	(ba)	an Australian university college; or
	(b)	a recognised overseas university; or
	(c)	an authorised nonuniversity institution; or
	(d)	an agent of an institution referred to in paragraph (a), (ba), (b) or (c).
	Penalty: a fine of $20 000.
	(4)	A person must not represent that a course of study leads to, will partially satisfy the requirements for, or would entitle a person who satisfies the course requirements to, the conferral of a higher education award, unless —
	(a)	the course provider is —
	(i)	an Australian university; or
	(ii)	an Australian university college; or
	(iii)	a recognised overseas university;
		or
	(b)	the course provider is an authorised nonuniversity institution and the course is accredited.
	Penalty: a fine of $20 000.
	[Section 6 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 6.]
7A.	Representations about authorisation to accredit higher education courses
		An education institution or an agent of an education institution must not represent that the institution is authorised to accredit a higher education course unless a selfaccrediting authorisation is in force for the institution authorising it to accredit such a course.
	Penalty: a fine of $20 000.
	[Section 7A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 7.]
7B.	Representations about admissions into higher education courses
		A person must not represent that successful completion of a course of study would satisfy, or partially satisfy, the academic prerequisites for admission into a higher education course unless the higher education course provider has authorised that representation.
	Penalty: a fine of $20 000.
	[Section 7B inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 7.]
Division 2 — Universities
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 8.]
Subdivision 1 — Report about criteria for establishing Australian university
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 8.]
7.	Report about criteria for establishing Australian university
	(1)	An education institution may request the Minister to appoint a higher education advisory committee to consider and report to the Minister on —
	(a)	whether the committee considers that the institution meets the criteria set out in the National Protocols for establishing an Australian university; and
	(b)	any other matter relevant to a decision on whether the institution should be established as an Australian university.
	(2)	A request must —
	(a)	be accompanied by a payment agreement; and
	(b)	include the prescribed information.
	(3)	The Minister may in writing, require the institution making the request to provide further information in relation to the request.
	(4)	The requirement is to specify a reasonable time within which the institution must comply with the requirement.
	(5)	The Minster may refuse to appoint a higher education advisory committee, or may discharge a committee that has been appointed, if the institution does not comply with a requirement under subsection (3) within the time specified in the requirement.
	(6)	The Minister must, as soon as practicable after receiving the report of a higher education advisory committee regarding an education institution, give a copy of the report to the institution.
	[Section 7 inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 9.]
Subdivision 2 — Recognition of overseas universities
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 10.]
8.	Recognised overseas universities
		An education institution is a recognised overseas university for the purposes of this Act if —
	(a)	it is an overseas university or part of an overseas university; and
	(b)	a section 10 determination is in force in respect of the institution.
	[Section 8 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 11.]
9.	Applications for s. 10 determination
	(1)	An education institution that is an overseas university, or part of an overseas university, may apply to the Minister for a. 10 determination.
	(2)	An application must —
	(a)	be accompanied by a payment agreement; and
	(b)	include the prescribed information.
	(3)	The Minister may in writing, require the applicant to provide further information in relation to the application.
	(4)	The requirement is to specify a reasonable time within which the applicant must comply with the requirement.
	(5)	The Minster may refuse the application if the applicant does not comply with a requirement under subsection (3) within the time specified in the requirement.
	[Section 9 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 12.]
10.	Recognition of overseas universities
	(1)	The Minister may determine that an education institution meets the criteria for recognition as an overseas university if satisfied that the institution meets the criteria set out in the National Protocols for overseas universities seeking to operate in Australia.
	(2)	Before making a determination, the Minister must have regard to the report of the higher education committee appointed to consider the matter.
	(3)	When making a determination, the Minister may also have regard to the following —
	(a)	any national policies and agreements about the governance and other characteristics of overseas universities made by the Minister with other education Ministers;
	(b)	any other relevant information.
	(4)	The Minister may make a determination subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring that the education institution meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 10(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(5)	If the Minister makes a determination under this section, the Minister must arrange for a copy of the determination to be laid before each House of Parliament.
	[Section 10 inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 13.]
11A.	Further conditions on s. 10 determination
	(1)	The Minister may, at any time after making a section 10 determination, make the determination subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring that the education institution meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 10(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(2)	Before making a section 10 determination subject to conditions under subsection (1), the Minister must —
	(a)	give the institution an opportunity to make representations on the matter; and
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	[Section 11A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 14.]
11.	Suspension or revocation of s. 10 determination
	(1)	The Minister may suspend or revoke a section 10 determination if —
	(a)	the education institution does not comply with a condition to which the determination has been made subject under section 10(4) or 11A(1); or
	(b)	the Minister is no longer satisfied that the education institution meets the criteria referred to in section 10(1).
	(2)	Before suspending or revoking a determination, the Minister must —
	(a)	give the education institution an opportunity to make representations on the matter;
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(3)	A suspension or revocation under subsection (1) is to be given to the education institution in writing signed by the Minister and is to state the grounds relied on in making the decision.
	(4)	If the Minister revokes a section 10 determination, the Minister must arrange for a copy of the revocation to be laid before each House of Parliament.
	[Section 11 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 15.]
Division 3 — Nonuniversity institutions
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 16.]
Subdivision 1 — Authorised nonuniversity institutions
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 16.]
12.	Authorised nonuniversity institutions
		A nonuniversity institution is authorised to provide a higher education course —
	(a)	if —
	(i)	a selfaccrediting authorisation is in force for the institution; and
	(ii)	the course is accredited by the institution in accordance with that authorisation;
		or
	(b)	if —
	(i)	a provider’s authorisation is in force for the institution; and
	(ii)	ministerial accreditation is in force for the course.
	[Section 12 inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 17.]
Subdivision 2 — Selfaccrediting authorisation of nonuniversity institutions
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 18.]
13A.	Applications for grant of selfaccrediting authorisation
	(1)	A nonuniversity institution may apply to the Minister for the grant of a selfaccrediting authorisation.
	(2)	An application request must —
	(a)	be accompanied by a payment agreement; and
	(b)	include the prescribed information.
	(3)	The Minister may in writing, require the applicant to provide further information in relation to the application.
	(4)	The requirement is to specify a reasonable time within which the applicant must comply with the requirement.
	(5)	The Minster may refuse the application if the applicant does not comply with a requirement under subsection (3) within the time specified in the requirement.
	[Section 13A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 18.]
13B.	Selfaccrediting authorisation of nonuniversity institutions
	(1)	The Minister may grant a selfaccrediting authorisation for a nonuniversity institution if satisfied that —
	(a)	the governance, financial resources, facilities, staffing and student services of the institution are or will be appropriate to the provision of higher education courses; and
	(b)	the institution has structures and processes to set standards for higher education courses that are at least equal or equivalent to the Australian standards appropriate to courses of that type; and
	(c)	the institution meets any other criteria set out in the National Protocols in relation to the standards and qualities required for approval of an institution to selfaccredit its courses.
	(2)	When deciding whether to grant a selfaccrediting authorisation, the Minister must have regard to the report of the higher education advisory committee appointed to consider the matter.
	(3)	When deciding whether to grant a selfaccrediting authorisation, the Minister may also have regard to the following —
	(a)	the governance, financial resources, facilities, staffing and student services of comparable institutions;
	(b)	any other relevant information.
	(4)	A selfaccrediting authorisation may authorise the institution to do one or more of the following —
	(a)	accredit higher education courses leading to a higher education award within a field or a range of fields specified in the authorisation;
	(b)	accredit higher education courses leading to a higher education award of a type or types specified in the authorisation.
	(5)	The Minister may grant a selfaccrediting authorisation subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring that the nonuniversity institution meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 13B(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	[Section 13B inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 18.]
13C.	Further conditions on selfaccrediting authorisation
	(1)	The Minister may, at any time after a selfaccrediting authorisation has been granted, make the authorisation subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring that the nonuniversity institution meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 13B(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(2)	Before making a selfaccrediting authorisation subject to conditions under subsection (1), the Minister must —
	(a)	give the nonuniversity institution an opportunity to make representations on the matter; and
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	[Section 13C inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 18.]
13D.	Suspension or revocation of selfaccrediting authorisation
	(1)	The Minister may suspend or revoke a selfaccrediting authorisation if —
	(a)	the nonuniversity institution does not comply with a condition to which the authorisation has been made subject under section 13B(5) or 13C(1); or
	(b)	the Minister is no longer satisfied that the nonuniversity institution meets the criteria referred to in section 13B(1).
	(2)	The suspension or revocation of a selfaccrediting authorisation may be in respect of one or more of the higher education courses that the nonuniversity institution is authorised to accredit.
	(3)	Before suspending or revoking a selfaccrediting authorisation, the Minister must —
	(a)	give the nonuniversity institution an opportunity to make representations on the matter; and
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(4)	A suspension or revocation under subsection (1) is to be given to the nonuniversity institution in writing signed by the Minister and is to —
	(a)	state the grounds relied on in making the decision; and
	(b)	where relevant, specify the higher education courses to which it applies.
	(5)	A suspension or revocation has effect to the extent specified in the written notice.
	[Section 13D inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 18.]
Subdivision 3 — Provider’s authorisation of nonuniversity institutions
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 19.]
13.	Applications for provider’s authorisations
	(1)	A nonuniversity institution may apply to the Minister for the grant or renewal of a provider’s authorisation.
	(2)	An application must —
	(a)	be accompanied by the fee prescribed by, or calculated under, the regulations; and
	(b)	include the prescribed information.
	(3)	The Minister may in writing, require the applicant to provide further information in relation to the application.
	(4)	The requirement is to specify a reasonable time within which the applicant must comply with the requirement.
	(5)	The Minster may refuse the application if the applicant does not comply with a requirement under subsection (3) within the time specified in the requirement.
	[Section 13 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 20.]
14.	Authorisation of nonuniversity institutions
	(1)	The Minister may grant or renew a provider’s authorisation for a nonuniversity institution if satisfied that —
	(a)	the governance, financial resources, facilities, staffing and student services of the institution are or will be appropriate to the provision of higher education courses; and
	(b)	the institution otherwise meets the criteria set out in the National Protocols in relation to nonuniversity institutions.
	(2)	When deciding whether to grant or renew a provider’s authorisation, the Minister must have regard to the report of the higher education advisory committee appointed to consider the matter.
	(3)	When deciding whether to grant or renew a provider’s authorisation, the Minister may also have regard to the following —
	(a)	the governance, financial resources, facilities, staffing and student services of comparable institutions;
	(b)	any other relevant information.
	(4)	The Minister may grant or renew a provider’s authorisation subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring that the nonuniversity institution meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 14(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	[Section 14 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 21.]
15A.	Duration of provider’s authorisation
	(1)	Unless otherwise provided under this Act, a provider’s authorisation continues in force —
	(a)	for 5 years from the day on which the authorisation is granted; or
	(b)	if an earlier day is specified in the authorisation, until that day.
	(2)	The Minister may extend a provider’s authorisation, in writing given to the nonuniversity institution, for a period of up to 6 months after the day on which it would otherwise have ceased to be in force if —
	(a)	an application for the renewal of the authorisation was made —
	(i)	6 months or more before that day; or
	(ii)	less than 6 months before that day, if that day is less than 6 months after the commencement of the Higher Education Amendment Act 2009 section 22 1;
		and
	(b)	the Minister has not made a final decision on that application before that day.
	[Section 15A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 22.]
15B.	Further conditions on provider’s authorisation
	(1)	The Minister may, at any time after a provider’s authorisation has been granted, make the authorisation subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring that the nonuniversity institution meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 14(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(2)	Before making a provider’s authorisation subject to conditions under subsection (1), the Minister must —
	(a)	give the nonuniversity institution an opportunity to make representations on the matter; and
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of the students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	[Section 15B inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 22.]
15.	Suspension or revocation of provider’s authorisation
	(1)	The Minister may suspend or revoke a provider’s authorisation if —
	(a)	the nonuniversity institution does not comply with a condition to which the authorisation has been made subject under section 14(4) or 15B(1); or
	(b)	the Minister is no longer satisfied that the nonuniversity institution meets the criteria referred to in section 14(1).
	(2)	Before suspending or revoking a provider’s authorisation, the Minister must —
	(a)	give the nonuniversity institution an opportunity to make representations on the matter;
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of students enrolled in the higher education courses provided by the institution.
	(3)	A suspension or revocation under subsection (1) is to be given to the nonuniversity institution in writing signed by the Minister and is to state the grounds relied on in making the decision.
	[Section 15 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 23.]
Subdivision 4 — Accredited higher education courses
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 24.]
16.	Accredited higher education courses
		A higher education course provided by a nonuniversity institution is accredited for the purposes of this Act if —
	(a)	a selfaccrediting authorisation is in force for the institution and the course is accredited by the institution in accordance with that authorisation; or
	(b)	ministerial accreditation is in force for the course; or
	(c)	the course is accredited by or under a written law of the Commonwealth, another State, the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory.
	[Section 16 inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 25.]
Subdivision 5 — Ministerial accreditation of higher education courses
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 26.]
17A.	Application of this Subdivision
		This Subdivision applies to a course provider that is a nonuniversity institution.
	[Section 17A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 27.]
17.	Applications for ministerial accreditation
	(1)	A course provider may apply to the Minister for accreditation or renewal of accreditation of a higher education course.
	(2)	An application must —
	(a)	be accompanied by the fee prescribed by, or calculated under, the regulations; and
	(b)	include the prescribed information.
	(3)	The Minister may in writing, require the applicant to provide further information in relation to the application.
	(4)	The requirement is to specify a reasonable time within which the applicant must comply with the requirement.
	(5)	The Minster may refuse the application if the applicant does not comply with a requirement under subsection (3) within the time specified in the requirement.
	[Section 17 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 28.]
18.	Ministerial accreditations
	(1)	The Minister may accredit, or renew the accreditation of, a higher education course leading to a particular higher education award if satisfied that —
	(a)	the standard of the course and the way in which it is being or will be provided are appropriate to the award; and
	(b)	the course meets any other applicable criteria set out in the National Protocols in relation to the standards to be met by courses leading to an award of that kind.
	(2)	When deciding whether to accredit, or renew the accreditation of, a higher education course, the Minister must have regard to the report of the higher education advisory committee appointed to consider the matter.
	(3)	When deciding whether to accredit, or renew the accreditation of, a higher education course, the Minister may also have regard to the following —
	(a)	the standard and provision of comparable courses provided by Australian universities or recognised overseas universities;
	(b)	any other relevant information.
[(4)(6)	deleted]
	(7)	The Minister may make the accreditation of a higher education course subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring the course meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 18(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the course.
	[Section 18 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 29.]
19A.	Duration of accreditation
	(1)	Unless otherwise provided under this Act, ministerial accreditation of a higher education course continues in force until —
	(a)	the day that is 5 years after the day on which the course is registered under section 23(3); or
	(b)	if an earlier day is specified in the accreditation, that day.
	(2)	The Minister may extend accreditation of a higher education course, in writing given to the course provider, for a period of up to 6 months after the day on which it would otherwise have ceased to be in force if —
	(a)	an application for the renewal of the accreditation was made —
	(i)	6 months or more before that day; or
	(ii)	less than 6 months before that day, if that day is less than 6 months after the commencement of the Higher Education Amendment Act 2009 section 30;
		and
	(b)	the Minister has not made a final decision on that application before that day.
	[Section 19A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 30.]
19B.	Further conditions on accreditation
	(1)	The Minister may, at any time after accrediting a higher education course, make the accreditation subject to any conditions relevant to —
	(a)	ensuring the course meets or continues to meet the criteria referred to in section 18(1); or
	(b)	protecting the interests of the students enrolled in the course.
	(2)	Before making accreditation of a higher education course subject to conditions under subsection (1), the Minister must —
	(a)	give the course provider an opportunity to make representations on the matter; and
	(b)	consider any representations made; and
	(c)	have regard to the interests of the students enrolled in the course.
	[Section 19B inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 30.]
19.	Suspension or revocation of ministerial accreditation
	[(1)	deleted]
	(2)	The Minister may suspend or revoke the accreditation of a higher education course if —
	(a)	the course provider does not comply with a condition to which the accreditation is subject under section 18(7) or 19B(1); or
	(b)	the Minister is no longer satisfied that the course meets the criteria referred to in section 18(1).
	(3)	Before suspending or revoking accreditation of a higher education course, the Minister must —
	(a)	give the course provider an opportunity to make representations on the matter;
	(b)	consider any representations made;
	(c)	have regard to the interests of students enrolled in the course.
	(4)	A suspension or revocation under subsection (2) is to be given to the course provider in writing signed by the Minister and is to state the grounds relied on in making the decision.
	[Section 19 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 31.]
Division 4 — Higher education advisory committees
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 32.]
20.	Higher education advisory committees
	(1)	The Minister must appoint a person who is or persons who are suitably qualified and experienced to constitute a higher education advisory committee to consider and report to the Minister —
	(a)	on the receipt of a request made under section 7(1);
	(b)	on an application made under section 9, 13A, 13 or 17.
	(2A)	Before appointing a person or persons to constitute a higher education advisory committee under subsection (1) in respect of a particular request or application, the Minister must —
	(a)	provide to the person making the request or application an opportunity to comment on the composition and membership of the committee; and
	(b)	take into account the comments (if any) provided to the Minister by the person making the request or application.
	(2)	The Minister may —
	(a)	appoint a person or persons who is or are suitably qualified and experienced to constitute a higher education advisory committee to consider and report to the Minister on any other matter related to the Minister’s functions under this Act; and
	(b)	have regard to the committee’s report on the matter when making a decision or carrying out any other function in relation to the matter.
	(3)	A higher education advisory committee may be appointed ad hoc or as a standing committee.
	[Section 20 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 33.]
21A.	Report of higher education advisory committee to be provided to applicant
	(1)	The Minister must, as soon as is practicable after receiving the report on an application referred to in section 20(1)(b) (the report), give a copy of the report to the applicant.
	(2)	The applicant may request the Minister to undertake a review of the report.
	(3)	A request to undertake a review of a report must —
	(a)	be made within 30 days after the receipt by the applicant of a copy of the report; and
	(b)	set out the grounds on which the applicant is seeking a review of the report; and
	(c)	be accompanied by the fee prescribed by, or calculated under, the regulations.
	(4)	On receipt of a request to undertake a review of a report the Minister may refer the request to any suitably qualified person or persons to consider and report to the Minister on the request.
	(5)	The Minister must not make a decision on an application referred to in section 20(1)(b) until —
	(a)	the applicant advises the Minister in writing that the applicant accepts the report; or
	(b)	31 days have elapsed since the date on which the applicant is given a copy of the report and the applicant has not requested a review of the report; or
	(c)	the applicant has requested a review of the report and that review has been completed.
	[Section 21A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 34.]
21.	Remuneration of advisory committee members
	(1)	The remuneration and allowances of a person appointed to a higher education advisory committee are to be determined by the Minister.
	(2)	Subsection (1) has effect subject to the Salaries and Allowances Act 1975 if that Act applies to the person.
	(3)	A determination is only to be made after having regard to the recommendation of the Public Sector Commissioner.
	[Section 21 amended: No. 39 of 2010 s. 89.]
Part 3A — Reviews and investigation
	[Heading inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 35.]
22.	Review of operations
		The Minister may at any time review —
	(a)	the operation of a recognised overseas university; or
	(b)	the operation of an authorised nonuniversity institution; or
	(c)	the provision and standard of an accredited course provided by an authorised nonuniversity institution.
	[Section 22 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 36.]
23A.	Inspectors, appointment of
	(1)	In this section —
	certificate means a certificate given under subsection (3).
	(2)	The Minister, in writing, may appoint persons to investigate —
	(a)	compliance with any condition to which a provider’s authorisation or a selfaccrediting authorisation is subject; or
	(b)	compliance with any condition to which ministerial accreditation of a higher education course is subject; or
	(c)	suspected contraventions of this Act; or
	(d)	any matters relevant to carrying out a review under section 22,
		on any terms the Minister decides and specifies in the appointment.
	(3)	The Minister must give each inspector a certificate of his or her appointment.
	(4)	A person who ceases to be an inspector must return his or her certificate to the Minister within 21 days.
	Penalty: a fine of $400.
	(5)	A certificate that purports to be signed by the Minister is, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, evidence of its contents.
	(6)	If requested to do so and if practicable, an inspector must produce his or her certificate for inspection when exercising a function of an inspector.
	[Section 23A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 37.]
23B.	Inspectors’ powers
	(1)	For the purpose of investigating any matter that he or she is authorised to investigate, an inspector may do any or all of the following —
	(a)	at any reasonable time, enter, inspect and search any place, other than a dwelling, that the inspector suspects on reasonable grounds is a place where a higher education course is provided;
	(b)	give a person a written direction to produce to the inspector the records that are specified or described in the direction and that are in the person’s possession;
	(c)	read and seize or copy any record the inspector suspects on reasonable grounds is or may be relevant to the matter being investigated;
	(d)	direct a person to answer any question that is relevant to the matter being investigated.
	(2)	A person who is given a written direction under subsection (1)(b) must obey it.
	Penalty: a fine of $10 000.
	(3)	A person who is directed under subsection (1)(d) to answer a question must not refuse to answer unless the answer would tend to incriminate the person or make the person liable to a penalty.
	Penalty: a fine of $10 000.
	(4)	A person must not give an inspector information that the person knows is false or misleading.
	Penalty: a fine of $10 000.
	[Section 23B inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 37.]
23C.	Consequences of investigations
	(1)	An inspector may give the Minister any information that the Minister may need in relation to performing his or her functions under this Act.
	(2)	A prosecution for an offence under this Act cannot be commenced except by or with the approval of the Minister.
	[Section 23C inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 37.]
Part 3 — Other matters
23.	Register of Higher Education
	(1)	The Minister must ensure that a Register of Higher Education is established and maintained.
	(2)	The register may be kept electronically or by any other means.
	(3A)	If the Minister grants a selfaccrediting authorisation for a nonuniversity institution, the Minister must arrange for the authorisation to be registered by entering in the register —
	(a)	the name of the institution; and
	(b)	a description of the higher education courses that the institution is authorised under section 13B(4) to accredit; and
	(c)	any other relevant particulars.
	(3)	If the Minister accredits a higher education course, the Minister must arrange for the course to be registered by entering in the register —
	(a)	the name of the course;
	(b)	the name of the education institution that provides or proposes to provide the course;
	(c)	the name of the higher education award to be conferred on successful completion of the course; and
	(d)	any other relevant particulars.
	(4)	The register must be made available for public inspection during normal office hours.
	[Section 23 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 38.]
24A.	Minister to make National Protocols available for inspection
		The Minister must ensure that a copy of the National Protocols is available for public inspection during normal office hours.
	[Section 24A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 39.]
24.	Delegation by Minister
	(1)	The Minister may delegate to the chief executive officer any function of the Minister under another provision of this Act.
	(2)	A delegation must be in writing signed by the Minister.
	(3)	The chief executive officer, when carrying out a function that has been delegated under this section, is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of the delegation unless the contrary is shown.
	(4)	Nothing in this section limits the ability of the Minister to perform a function through an officer or agent.
25.	Act binds Crown
		This Act binds the Crown in right of Western Australia and, so far as the legislative power of the Parliament permits, the Crown in all its other capacities.
26A.	Protection from liability
	(1)	An action in tort does not lie against a person for anything that the person has, in good faith, done in the performance or purported performance of a function under this Act.
	(2)	The protection given by this Act applies even if the thing done in the performance or purported performance of a function under this Act may have been capable of being done whether or not this Act had been enacted.
	(3)	This section does not relieve the State of any liability it might have for the doing of anything by a person against whom this section provides that an action does not lie.
	(4)	In this section a reference to the doing of anything includes a reference to the omission to do anything.
	[Section 26A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 40.]
26.	Disclosure of information
	(1)	A person who acquires any information about the affairs of another person as a result of carrying out a function under or for the purposes of this Act must not, directly or indirectly, make a record of, or divulge or communicate the information to a third person.
	(2)	However, subsection (1) does not prohibit recording, divulging or communicating information —
	(a)	in the performance of a function under or in connection with this Act or the Fair Trading Act 2010; or
	(b)	for the purposes of any proceedings under this Act or the Fair Trading Act 2010; or
	(c)	in the course of an exchange of information with a person or body performing a function under or in connection with a law of the Commonwealth or of another State or a Territory, being a law that is relevant to the administration of higher education courses in Australia.
	(3)	Nothing in this section affects the operation of the Parliamentary Privileges Act 1891.
	[Section 26 amended: No. 58 of 2010 s. 196.]
27A.	Evidentiary matters
		A certificate that purports to be issued by the Minister stating —
	(a)	that at a specified time, a nonuniversity institution did or did not have a provider’s authorisation; or
	(b)	a condition to which a provider’s authorisation was subject at the time specified in the certificate; or
	(c)	that at a specified time, a nonuniversity institution did or did not have a selfaccrediting authorisation; or
	(d)	a condition to which a selfaccrediting authorisation was subject at the time specified in the certificate; or
	(e)	that at a specified time, a higher education course was or was not accredited; or
	(f)	a condition to which a ministerial accreditation of a higher education course was subject at the time specified in the certificate,
		is, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, evidence of its contents.
	[Section 27A inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 41.]
27.	Vicarious liability for corporations
	(1)	If a body corporate is convicted of an offence against this Act, each director and each other person concerned in the management of the body corporate is guilty of a like offence if the act that constituted the offence took place with his or her authority, permission or consent.
	(2)	If an agent or employee of an education institution is convicted of an offence against this Act, the institution is guilty of a like offence unless the institution proves that —
	(a)	the offence was committed without its knowledge; and
	(b)	it exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.
28.	Agreement to pay costs of considering application or request
	(1)	The Minister may enter into a written arrangement with a person who intends to make a request under section 7 or an application under section 9 or 13A for the person to pay —
	(a)	the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Minister in considering the request or application; and
	(b)	the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by, or by the Minister on behalf of, a higher education advisory committee appointed to consider and report to the Minister on the request or application.
	(2)	Regulations may make provision for and in relation to an agreement referred to in subsection (1) including in connection with —
	(a)	the ambit of the agreement;
	(b)	the making of the agreement;
	(c)	the costs and expenses to be paid under the agreement, including as to the method of calculating the costs and expenses;
	(d)	the methods for resolving any dispute about the costs and expenses that are to be paid under the agreement.
	[Section 28 inserted: No. 40 of 2009 s. 42.]
29.	Recovery of fees
		A fee payable under this Act is recoverable by the Crown in a court of competent jurisdiction as a debt due to the Crown.
	[Section 29 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 43.]
30.	Regulations
	(1)	The Governor may make regulations prescribing all matters that are required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed, or are necessary or convenient to be prescribed for giving effect to this Act.
	(2)	Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may provide for any or all of the following matters —
	(a)	the records to be kept by education institutions;
	(b)	information and returns to be provided by education institutions;
	(c)	controlling, regulating or prohibiting advertising by education institutions;
	(d)	procedures relating to the suspension or revocation, or proposed suspension or revocation, of a section 10 determination, selfaccrediting authorisation, a provider’s authorisation or ministerial accreditation;
	(e)	the fees payable for services provided under this Act;
	(f)	the waiver, rebate or refund of fees payable under this Act;
	(g)	penalties not exceeding $5 000 for an offence against the regulations.
	(3)	The regulations may provide for a method of calculating a fee referred to in subsection (2)(e), including calculation according to the costs and expenses incurred in providing the service.
	[Section 30 amended: No. 40 of 2009 s. 44.]

Notes
1	This is a compilation of the Higher Education Act 2004 and includes the amendments made by the other written laws referred to in the following table.  The table also contains information about any reprint.
Compilation table
Short title
Number and year
Assent
Commencement
Higher Education Act 2004
73 of 2004
8 Dec 2004
8 Dec 2004 (see s. 2)
Higher Education Amendment Act 2009
40 of 2009
3 Dec 2009
s. 1 and 2: 3 Dec 2009 (see s. 2(a));
Act other than s. 1 and 2: 27 Feb 2010 (see s. 2(b) and Gazette 26 Feb 2010 p. 809)
Reprint 1: The Higher Education Act 2004 as at 23 Jul 2010 (includes amendments listed above)
Public Sector Reform Act 2010 s. 89
39 of 2010
1 Oct 2010
1 Dec 2010 (see s. 2(b) and Gazette 5 Nov 2010 p. 5563)
Acts Amendment (Fair Trading) Act 2010 s. 196
58 of 2010
8 Dec 2010
1 Jan 2011 (see s. 2(c) and Gazette 24 Dec 2010 p. 6805)


Defined terms

[This is a list of terms defined and the provisions where they are defined.  The list is not part of the law.]
	Defined term	Provision(s)
accredited	3
Australian Qualifications Framework	3
Australian university	3
Australian university college	3
authorised nonuniversity institution	3
certificate	23A(1)
company	3
course provider	3
education institution	3
education Minister	3
higher education advisory committee	3
higher education award	3
higher education course	3
ministerial accreditation	3
National Protocols	3
nonuniversity institution	3
overseas university	3
payment agreement	3
provider’s authorisation	3
recognised overseas university	3
report	21A(1)
represent	3
section 10 determination	3
selfaccrediting authorisation	3









