             FOREIGN INTERFERENCE
         (COUNTERMEASURES) ACT 2021

         (No. 28 of 2021)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
     1.  Purposes of Act
     2.  General interpretation
     3.  Meaning of “foreign principal” and associated terms
     4.  Engaging in conduct, etc., on behalf of foreign principal
     5.  Meaning of “foreign interference”
     6.  Meaning of “in the public interest”
     7.  Meaning of “directed towards a political end in Singapore”
     8.  Meaning of “influencing Singapore governmental
     9.  decisions”, etc.
         Undertaking “electronic communications activity” or “online
   10.   communications activity”
         When is information provided, posted or removed from social
   11.   media service, etc.
         Meaning of “publish in Singapore” and associated terms
   12.   Supplementary interpretive provisions for communications
   13.   activity
         Meaning of “politically significant person”
   14.   Meaning of “value” in relation to donations and benefits
   15.   Determining purpose of an activity
   16.

                                        PART 2

              FOREIGN INTERFERENCE BY ELECTRONIC
                        COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY

17. Clandestine foreign interference by electronic communications
         activity

18. Clandestine foreign interference of target using electronic
         communications activity

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
2  NO. 28 OF 2021

Section
   19. Preparing for or planning an offence under section 17 or 18

                                            PART 3

            DIRECTIONS AGAINST HARMFUL FOREIGN ONLINE
                           COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY

                             Division 1 — Ministerial powers

   20. Authorisation by Minister for direction to be given
   21. Authorisation by Minister for anticipatory direction
   22. Self‑initiated cancellation or variation of authorisation
   23. Reconsideration by Minister of authorisation
   24. Proscribed online location — declaration
   25. Self‑initiated revocation or variation of declaration
   26. Reconsideration by Minister of declaration of proscribed online

            location
   27. Public notice of revocation of declaration
   28. Authorisation regardless of offence

                              Division 2 — Part 3 directions

   29. Types of Part 3 directions
   30. Stop communication (end‑user) direction — content
   31. Disabling direction — content
   32. Must‑carry directions — content
   33. Access blocking direction — content and preconditions
   34. Account restriction direction — content
   35. Service restriction direction — content
   36. Technical assistance direction — content
   37. App removal direction — content and preconditions
   38. Disgorgement direction — content

                           Division 3 — Special provisions for
                                 proscribed online location

   39. Operating proscribed online location
   40. Providing support to proscribed online location
   41. Advertising dealings concerning proscribed online location

                        Division 4 — Supplementary provisions
                                    on Part 3 directions

   42. Content and effect of directions — general
   43. Service of Part 3 directions
   44. Publicity regarding non‑compliance with directions

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                                        3

Section
   45. Offence of non‑compliance with directions
   46. Non‑disclosure of technical assistance directions

                                            PART 4

           DESIGNATING POLITICALLY SIGNIFICANT PERSONS

   47. Designating non‑individual
   48. Designating individual as politically significant person
   49. Opportunity to be heard before designation, etc.

                                            PART 5

               COUNTERMEASURES FOR DONOR ACTIVITIES

                                   Division 1 — General

   50. Application according to capacity
   51. Meaning of “political donation”
   52. What is not a political donation
   53. Meaning of “reportable political donation”
   54. When is political donation accepted
   55. Other definitions for Part 5

             Division 2 — Restrictions on accepting political donations

   56. Political donations from impermissible donors, etc.
   57. Anonymous donations
   58. Applicable cap on anonymous political donations
   59. Return of anonymous political donations
   60. Return of political donations
   61. Forfeiture of prohibited political donations, etc.

                        Division 3 — Reporting and accounting
                                    of political donations

   62. Disclosing reportable political donations
   63. When disclosure of reportable political donations to be made
   64. Who is responsible for disclosing reportable political donations
   65. Accompanying declaration to donation report
   66. Separate accounts for political donations (political donations

            fund)

                       Division 4 — Stepped up countermeasures
                        for Part 4 politically significant persons

   67. Prohibited donor directive

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
4  NO. 28 OF 2021

Section
   68. Anonymous donations directive
   69. Political donations fund directive

                             Division 5 — Donor obligations

   70. Major political donor reporting
   71. Directive affecting major donors
   72. Duty when donating on behalf of others

                                   Division 6 — Offences

   73. Late donation reports, etc.
   74. False or misleading donation reports and declarations
   75. Evasion and intentional acceptance of impermissible donations,

            etc.

                                            PART 6

                COUNTERMEASURES FOR OTHER ACTIVITIES

                            Division 1 — Foreign affiliations

   76. Disclosure of foreign affiliation
   77. When to make foreign affiliations report
   78. What is reportable arrangement
   79. Reporting involvement in foreign political organisation, etc.

                      Division 2 — Published‑by requirement for
                              foreign‑linked political matters

   80. Application and interpretation
   81. Transparency directive for publishing political matters with

            foreign link
   82. What is political matter with foreign link

                       Division 3 — Stepped up countermeasures

   83. Directive prohibiting foreign membership, responsible officer,
            etc.

   84. Directive to end affiliation, etc., with foreign principal
   85. Directive prohibiting, etc., foreign volunteers

                                   Division 4 — Offences

   86. Late Part 6 reports, etc.
   87. False or misleading Part 6 reports and declarations

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
         FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

         (COUNTERMEASURES)                                                 5

         PART 7

         CONDITIONS FOR STEPPED UP
               COUNTERMEASURES

Section  Circumstances where Part 5 or 6 directive may be given
         Content and effect of directives: general
   88.   Process of giving directives: general
   89.   Offences involving directives to politically significant persons
   90.
   91.

                                          PART 8

                         OVERSIGHT ARRANGEMENTS

                            Division 1 — Rights of appeal

 92. Right of appeal against authorisation for Part 3 directions, etc.
 93. Right of appeal against competent authority’s decisions

                         Division 2 — Reviewing Tribunals
                                 for section 92 appeals

 94. Reviewing Tribunals — composition
 95. Reviewing Tribunal — remuneration and other terms
 96. Reviewing Tribunal — resources
 97. Reviewing Tribunal — function
 98. Procedure before Reviewing Tribunal
 99. Rules for Reviewing Tribunal proceedings

                          Division 3 — Section 93 appeals

100. Appeals to Minister
101. Minister’s function on appeal
102. Advisory body for section 93 appeals

                                 Division 4 — General

103. Effect of appeal on decision appealed against
104. Limited judicial review

                                          PART 9

                  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

105. Competent authorities
106. Alternate arrangements during election period, etc.
107. Authorised officers
108. Power to obtain information

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
6        NO. 28 OF 2021

Section  False or misleading information, etc.
         Offences by corporations
  109.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
  110.   Arrestable and non‑bailable offences
  111.   Jurisdiction of courts
  112.   Composition of offences
  113.   Extra‑territorial application of offences
  114.   Public notice of Part 5 or 6 directives, etc.
  115.
  116.

                                            PART 10

                                     MISCELLANEOUS

   117. Interface with other laws
   118. Other causes of action not affected
   119. Liability for complying with directions and directives, etc.
   120. Exempt activities
   121. Service of documents
   122. Regulations
   123. Repeal

                                            PART 11

                           AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                                AND FINAL PROVISIONS

   124. Amendment of Parliamentary Elections Act 1954
   125. Amendment of Presidential Elections Act 1991
   126. Amendment of Societies Act 1966
   127. Saving and transitional provisions

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)     7

An Act to counteract foreign interference in the public interest, to
  repeal the Political Donations Act (Chapter 236 of the
  2001 Revised Edition) and to make consequential and related
  amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
8  NO. 28 OF 2021

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
 1. This Act is the Foreign Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021
and comes into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by
notification in the Gazette.

Purposes of Act
 2. The purposes of this Act are to protect the public interest by

counteracting acts of foreign interference through —
       (a) countermeasures aimed at such acts by electronic
            communications activity; and
       (b) countermeasures aimed at pre‑empting or preventing the
            occurrence of such acts involving persons identified as
            at‑risk because they are politically significant.

General interpretation
 3.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “a point” includes a mobile or potentially mobile point, whether
         on land, underground, in the atmosphere, underwater or
         anywhere else;
      “access”, in relation to communications activity, includes —
              (a) access that is subject to a precondition, such as the
                   use of a password;
              (b) access by way of push technology;
              (c) access by way of a standing request;
      “access blocking direction” means a direction described in
         section 33;
      “account” includes —
              (a) a free account;
              (b) a prepaid account; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         9

        (c) anything that may reasonably be regarded as the
             equivalent of an account;

“account restriction direction” means a direction described in
   section 34;

“anonymous donation” means a donation which the recipient is
   (whether because the donation is offered anonymously or by
   reason of deception or concealment) unable to ascertain the
   identity of the person giving the donation;

“anonymous donations directive” means a directive given under
   section 68;

“app” includes a computer program;

“app removal direction” means a direction given under
   section 37;

“applicable cap on anonymous political donations” has the
   meaning given by section 58(2);

“arrangement” includes a contract, an agreement, understanding
   or other arrangement of any kind, whether written or
   unwritten;

“authorised officer” means an individual who is appointed under
   section 107 as an authorised officer;

“benefit” includes any advantage and is not limited to property;

“bequest” includes any form of testamentary disposition;

“broadcasting service” has the meaning given by the
   Broadcasting Act 1994;

“candidate”, for an election, means —

        (a) an individual who is nominated as a candidate at the
             election until the end of the 31st day after the results
             of the election are published; or

        (b) an individual (whether or not a member of a political
             party) who, on or after the date of the issue of a writ
             for the election, is declared, by himself or herself or
             by others, as seeking nomination as a candidate at

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
10  NO. 28 OF 2021

                 that election until the end of the 31st day after the
                 results of the election are published;

    “competent authority”, in relation to any provision of this Act or
       the Regulations, means the competent authority appointed
       under section 105 to exercise powers under that provision;

    “constituency” means an electoral division within the meaning
       given by the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954;

    “deception” means an intentional or a reckless deception,
       whether by words or other conduct, and whether as to fact
       or as to law, and includes —

            (a) a deception as to the present intentions of the person
                 using the deception or any other person; and

            (b) conduct with the intention of causing a computer or
                 an electronic device to make a response that the
                 person is not authorised to cause the computer or
                 electronic device to make;

    “directed towards a political end in Singapore” has the meaning
       given by section 8;

    “disabling direction” means a direction described in section 31;

    “disgorgement direction” means a direction described in
       section 38;

    “disposal”, in relation to any property, means any conveyance,
       transfer, assignment, settlement, delivery, payment or other
       alienation of property, and includes —

            (a) the allotment of shares in a company;

            (b) the creation of a trust in property;

            (c) the grant or creation of any lease, mortgage, charge,
                 servitude, licence, power, partnership or interest in
                 property;

            (d) the release, discharge, surrender, forfeiture or
                 abandonment, at law or in equity, of any debt,
                 contract or chose in action, or of any interest in
                 property;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         11

        (e) the exercise by a person of a special or general power
             of appointment of property in favour of any other
             person (or a hybrid of both); or

        (f) any transaction entered into by any person with intent
             to diminish, directly or indirectly, the value of the
             person’s own property and to increase the value of the
             property of any other person;

“donation report” means a report required to be prepared under
   section 62;

“donor” means a person who makes a donation;

“donor activity” means disbursing money or property or benefit;

“election” means —

        (a) an election in a constituency under the Parliamentary
             Elections Act 1954 for the purpose of electing a
             Member of Parliament; or

        (b) a presidential election;

“election agent”, in relation to a candidate at an election, means
   the individual appointed or treated as appointed as his or her
   election agent under section 62(1) of the Parliamentary
   Elections Act 1954 or section 43(1) of the Presidential
   Elections Act 1991, as the case may be;

                                                                        [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

“elector”, for an election, means an individual who is entitled to
   vote at that election;

“electronic communications activity” and “online
   communications activity” have the respective meanings
   given by section 10;

“engage in conduct” means —

        (a) do an act or omit to do an act —

               (i) on a single occasion; or

               (ii) on a number of occasions over a period of time;
                    or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
12  NO. 28 OF 2021

            (b) both do an act and omit to do an act —

                   (i) on a single occasion; or

                   (ii) on a number of occasions over a period of time;

    “entity” means —

            (a) a body corporate (including a limited liability
                 partnership);

            (b) an unincorporated association;

            (c) a partnership;

            (d) a body politic;

            (e) a body of individuals who together form a body; or

            (f) a person other than an individual;

    “executive committee”, for an unincorporated association or a
       group of individuals that is not a body corporate or a
       partnership, means a body of individuals (however
       described) that governs, manages or conducts the affairs of
       the unincorporated association or group;

    “for the purposes of the candidate’s election” means with a view
       to, or otherwise in connection with, promoting or procuring
       the candidate’s election at a parliamentary election or
       presidential election (as the case may be) and includes
       prejudicing the electoral prospects of another candidate at
       that parliamentary election or presidential election;

    “foreign affiliations report” has the meaning given by
       section 76;

    “foreign business” has the meaning given by section 4;

    “foreign country” means a country or territory other than
       Singapore, and includes part of such a country or territory;

    “foreign government” has the meaning given by section 4;

    “foreign government‑related individual” has the meaning given
       by section 4;

    “foreign interference” has the meaning given by section 6;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         13

“foreign legislature” has the meaning given by section 4;

“foreign political organisation” has the meaning given by
   section 4;

“foreign principal” has the meaning given by section 4;

“foreign public enterprise” has the meaning given by section 4;

“foreign volunteers report” has the meaning given by
   section 85(3);

“foreigner” has the meaning given by section 4;

“general election” means a general election of Members of
   Parliament after a dissolution of Parliament;

“gift” means any of the following:

        (a) any disposal of property made by a person to another
             person (including by will), being a disposal made
             without consideration in money or money’s worth or
             with inadequate consideration;

        (b) the provision of a service for no consideration or for
             inadequate consideration, other than the provision of
             voluntary labour or voluntary professional services to
             a political party by an officer or a member of the
             party;

“Government” includes any part of the Government and an
   Organ of State (such as the Cabinet);

“in the public interest” has the meaning given by section 7;

“influence” includes affecting, directly or indirectly, in any way;

“information or material” means information or material in any
   form, such as (but not limited to) —

        (a) oral, written, electronic or digital form; and

        (b) visual, pictorial or graphic form (for example, an
             anthropomorphic or humanlike depiction),

   and includes information or material in any combination of
   forms;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
14  NO. 28 OF 2021

    “interest in property” means any estate, interest, right or power
       whatever, whether at law or in equity, in, under or over
       property;

    “interference” includes influence;

    “major political donor” means a person (not being a politically
       significant person) who is required by section 70 to make a
       donation report under that section;

    “Member of Parliament” means —

            (a) an individual who is declared under section 49(7)(a)
                 or (7E)(a) or 49A(5) of the Parliamentary Elections
                 Act 1954 elected as the Member of Parliament for an
                 identified constituency, until he or she vacates his or
                 her seat in Parliament under the provisions of the
                 Constitution;

            (b) an individual who —

                   (i) is declared elected as a non‑constituency
                        Member of Parliament under section 52 of
                        the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954; or

                   (ii) is deemed under section 53 of that Act to be
                        elected as a non‑constituency Member in place
                        of the non‑constituency Member whose seat
                        has been declared vacant,

            (b) and has subscribed before Parliament the Oath of
                 Allegiance under Article 61 of the Constitution, until
                 either he or she vacates his or her seat in Parliament
                 under the provisions of the Constitution or the
                 Parliament by resolution under section 53 of that
                 Act declares that his or her seat has become vacant; or

            (c) a nominated Member of Parliament who is appointed
                 under the Fourth Schedule to the Constitution and has
                 subscribed before Parliament the Oath of Allegiance
                 under Article 61 of the Constitution, until he or she
                 vacates his or her seat in Parliament under the
                 provisions of the Constitution,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         15

   and includes a Member in the capacity of the Leader of the
   Opposition;

“migration benefit” has the meaning given by section 78(4);

“must‑carry direction” means a direction described in
   section 32;

“nomination day” means the day of nomination at an election;

“online location” means any website, webpage, chatroom or
   forum, or any other thing that can be seen, heard or otherwise
   perceived by means of the Internet;

“Part 3 direction” means any direction mentioned in section 29,
   pursuant to an authorisation under section 20(1), 21(1) or
   22(1)(b) or 23(3)(b) or (c);

“Part 4 politically significant entity” and “Part 4 politically
   significant person” have the respective meanings given by
   section 14;

“partnership” includes a limited partnership but not a limited
   liability partnership;

“permissible donor” has the meaning given by section 55;

“police officer” includes —

        (a) a member of the Special Constabulary established
             under the Police Force Act 2004; and

        (b) an auxiliary police officer appointed as such under
             Part IX of the Police Force Act 2004;

“political donations fund directive” means a directive given
   under section 69;

“political office holder” means the holder of the office of —

        (a) the Prime Minister;

        (b) a Deputy Prime Minister;

        (c) a Minister, Senior Minister or Co‑ordinating
             Minister;

        (d) a Minister of State or Senior Minister of State;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
16  NO. 28 OF 2021

            (e) a Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
                 Secretary;

            (f) the Speaker of Parliament or a Deputy Speaker of
                 Parliament;

            (g) a Mayor;

            (h) a Political Secretary; or

            (i) the Leader of the House;

    “political party” means a body of persons, corporate or
       unincorporated, whose object, or one of whose objects, is
       the promotion of the election to Parliament of a candidate or
       candidates endorsed by it or an organisation of which it forms
       part;

    “politically significant person” has the meaning given by
       section 14;

    “polling day”, for an election, means —

            (a) for a by‑election or general election, the day
                 specified —

                   (i) under section 34 or 34A of the Parliamentary
                        Elections Act 1954 in a notice of contested
                        election as the date on which the poll for that
                        by‑election or general election (as the case may
                        be) is to be taken in Singapore; or

                   (ii) under section 50C(3)(b)(ii) of the
                        Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 or under
                        regulations made under section 102A of that
                        Act as the other day that the polling day for an
                        election is postponed to, if that section or those
                        regulations apply; or

                                                                            [Act 8 of 2023 wef 14/06/2024]

            (b) for a presidential election, the day specified —

                   (i) under section 16 of the Presidential Elections
                        Act 1991 in a notice of contested election as the
                        date on which the poll for that election is to be
                        taken in Singapore; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         17

               (ii) under section 33C(3)(b)(ii) of the Presidential
                    Elections Act 1991 or under regulations made
                    under section 81A of that Act as the other day
                    that the polling day for an election is postponed
                    to, if that section or those regulations apply;

                                                                        [Act 8 of 2023 wef 01/06/2023]

“presidential election” means an election under the Presidential
   Elections Act 1991 for the purpose of electing the President;

“principal election agent” means —

        (a) an election agent of a candidate in a group who has
             been appointed or is treated as appointed under
             section 62(5) of the Parliamentary Elections Act
             1954 as the principal election agent for that group; or

                                                                        [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

        (b) an election agent of a candidate at a presidential
             election who has been appointed or is treated as
             appointed under section 43(2A) of the Presidential
             Elections Act 1991 as the principal election agent;

                                                                        [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

“prohibited donor”, in relation to a politically significant person,
   has the meaning given by section 67;

“prohibited donor directive” means a directive given under
   section 67;

“property” includes money, and a reference to the provision of
   property accordingly includes the supply of goods;

“proprietor”, for an online location, means a person who —

        (a) develops and maintains the online location;

        (b) organises, manages or supervises the use of the
             online location;

        (c) manages or regulates membership of, or access to, the
             online location; or

        (d) has the authority to decide whether any information
             or material may be included or excluded on the online
             location, or where to place the information or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
18  NO. 28 OF 2021

                 material on the online location or otherwise exercise
                 editorial control over the online location;

    “proscribed online location” means an online location declared
       under section 24 or 25 to be a proscribed online location;

    “public” means the general public in Singapore and includes a
       section of the general public in Singapore;

    “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
       under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function,
       but excludes a Town Council constituted under the Town
       Councils Act 1988;

    “Regulations” means regulations made under section 122;

    “relevant entity” means any of the following persons:

            (a) a partnership carrying on a business in Singapore and
                 registered under the Business Names Registration
                 Act 2014;

            (b) a body corporate that is registered under —

                   (i) the Companies Act 1967; or

                   (ii) the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

            (c) an association (whether incorporate or not) that is
                 registered under —

                   (i) the Co‑operative Societies Act 1979;

                   (ii) the Societies Act 1966;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

                  (iii) the Trade Unions Act 1940; or

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

                  (iv) the Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                           [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

    “relevant individual” means —

            (a) a citizen of Singapore whether or not resident in
                 Singapore; or

            (b) an individual who is not a citizen of Singapore but is
                 resident in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         19

“repealed Act” means the Political Donations Act 2000 repealed
   by this Act;

“reportable arrangement to which a politically significant person
   is party” has the meaning given by section 78;

“reportable political donation” has the meaning given by
   section 53;

“reporting period” —

        (a) for reportable political donations, has the meaning
             given by section 62;

        (b) for reportable arrangements to which a politically
             significant person is party, has the meaning given by
             section 76; or

        (c) for a Part 4 politically significant person given a
             directive under section 85(2)(b), has the meaning
             given by that section;

“responsible officer”, for a politically significant person who is
   not an individual, means —

        (a) if a partnership — a partner of the partnership;

        (b) if a body corporate — the individual for the time
             being holding the office of chairperson, managing
             director or company secretary of the body corporate,
             or any position analogous to any of those offices in
             that body corporate; or

        (c) if an unincorporated body of persons other than a
             partnership —

               (i) the individual for the time being holding the
                    office of president, secretary or treasurer of the
                    executive committee of the unincorporated
                    body of persons, or any position analogous to
                    any of those offices in that body; or

               (ii) where there is no such executive committee,
                    the individual for the time being notified by the
                    unincorporated body of persons to a competent

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
20  NO. 28 OF 2021

                        authority as a responsible officer of that body
                        of persons,

       and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
       office mentioned in paragraph (a), (b) or (c)(i) if that office is
       vacant;

    “Reviewing Tribunal” means a Reviewing Tribunal constituted
       by section 94;

    “service restriction direction” means a direction described in
       section 35;

    “Singapore aircraft” means an aircraft that is registered in
       Singapore under the Air Navigation Act 1966;

    “Singapore vessel” means a vessel used in navigation by water
       (including an air‑cushioned vehicle such as a hovercraft or a
       submersible craft) that is registered (provisionally or
       otherwise) under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 and its
       registry is not closed or deemed to be closed or suspended
       under that Act;

    “stop communication (end‑user) direction” means a direction
       described in section 30;

    “technical assistance direction” means a direction described in
       section 36;

    “telecommunication service” has the meaning given by section 2
       of the Telecommunications Act 1999;

    “value”, in relation to any donation or benefit, has the meaning
       given by section 15;

    “vehicle” means any means of transport, whether self‑propelled
       or not, used on land such as a train, bicycle, motor car or
       personal mobility device;

    “writ” means a writ of election issued under section 24 of the
       Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 or, in the case of a
       presidential election, under section 6 of the Presidential
       Elections Act 1991.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         21

 (2) A reference in this Act to the results of an election being
published is a reference to —

       (a) for a parliamentary election, the date that either of the
            following is published in the Gazette, whichever being
            applicable to that election:

               (i) the notice required by section 33(1)(b) of the
                   Parliamentary Elections Act 1954, containing the
                   name or names of the nominated candidate or the
                   group of candidates declared elected;

              (ii) the statement of the poll and the name or names of
                   the person or persons elected as Member or Members
                   of Parliament at that election required by section 51
                   of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 to be
                   published; and

       (b) for a presidential election, the date that either of the
            following is published in the Gazette, whichever being
            applicable to that election:

               (i) the notice required by section 15(1)(b) of the
                   Presidential Elections Act 1991, containing the
                   name of the nominated candidate declared elected
                   as President;

              (ii) the statement of the poll and the name of the person
                   elected to the office of President required by
                   section 34 of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 to
                   be published.

 (3) [Deleted by Act 8 of 2023 wef 01/06/2023]

Meaning of “foreign principal” and associated terms

 4. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “foreign business” means an entity —

              (a) that —

                     (i) is constituted or organised under a law of a
                          foreign country, even if registered under any
                          written law; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
22  NO. 28 OF 2021

                   (ii) has its principal place of business in a foreign
                        country, even if incorporated under any written
                        law; and

            (b) that is not a foreign government, a foreign public
                 enterprise or a foreign political organisation;

    “foreign government” means —

            (a) the government of a foreign country;

            (b) an authority of the government of a foreign country;
                 or

            (c) a foreign local government body or a foreign regional
                 government body;

    “foreign government‑related individual” means an individual
       who is related to a foreign principal that is a foreign
       government, foreign political organisation or foreign public
       enterprise in either or both of the following ways:

            (a) the individual is accustomed, or under an obligation
                 (whether formal or informal), to engage in conduct in
                 accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes
                 of the foreign government, foreign political
                 organisation or foreign public enterprise;

            (b) the foreign government, foreign political
                 organisation or foreign public enterprise (as the
                 case may be) is in a position to exercise, in any
                 other way, total or substantial control over the
                 individual;

    “foreign legislature” means a legislature of a foreign country;

    “foreign political organisation” means —

            (a) a foreign political party; or

            (b) an entity that —

                   (i) is constituted or organised under a law of a
                        foreign country; and

                   (ii) exists primarily to pursue political objectives;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         23

“foreign principal” means —

        (a) a foreigner;

        (b) a foreign government;

        (c) a foreign government‑related individual;

        (d) a foreign legislature;

        (e) a foreign political organisation;

        (f) a foreign public enterprise; or

        (g) a foreign business;

“foreign public enterprise” means an entity that is related in one
   or more of the following ways, to a foreign principal which is
   a foreign government or a foreign political organisation:

        (a) if the entity is a body corporate — one or both of the
             following apply:

               (i) the directors (however described) of the body
                    corporate are accustomed, or under an
                    obligation (whether formal or informal), to
                    engage in conduct in accordance with the
                    directions, instructions or wishes of the
                    foreign principal;

               (ii) the foreign principal is in a position to exercise,
                    in any other way, total or substantial control
                    over the body corporate;

        (b) if the entity is an unincorporated association, a
             partnership or body politic — either of the
             following applies:

               (i) the members of the executive committee or
                    governing board of the entity are accustomed,
                    or under an obligation (whether formal or
                    informal), to engage in conduct in accordance
                    with the directions, instructions or wishes of
                    the foreign principal;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
24  NO. 28 OF 2021

                     (ii) the foreign principal is in a position to exercise,
                          in any other way, total or substantial control
                          over the entity;

              (c) if the entity is a person other than a body politic and
                   the foreign principal is a foreign political
                   organisation —

                     (i) a director, an officer or an employee of the
                          entity, or any part of the entity, who is required
                          to be a member or part (however described) of
                          that foreign political organisation; and

                     (ii) that requirement is contained in a law, or in the
                          constitution, rules or other governing
                          documents by which the entity is constituted
                          or according to which the entity operates;

      “foreigner” means an individual who is not a citizen of
         Singapore.

Engaging in conduct, etc., on behalf of foreign principal

 5.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, a person
undertakes an activity or engages in conduct on behalf of a foreign
principal if —

       (a) the person undertakes the activity or engages in that
            conduct —

               (i) under an arrangement with the foreign principal;

              (ii) in the service of the foreign principal;

             (iii) on the order or at the request of the foreign principal;

             (iv) under the control, direction or supervision of the
                   foreign principal;

              (v) with funding from the foreign principal; or

             (vi) in collaboration with the foreign principal; and

       (b) at the time the arrangement or service is entered into, or the
            order, request or direction is made, or the funding,
            supervision or collaboration is carried out, both the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         25

            person and the foreign principal knew or expected that the
            person would or might undertake the activity or engage in
            that conduct.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), it does not matter whether
consideration is payable.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), a person undertakes an activity
or engages in conduct on behalf of a foreign principal if both the
person and the foreign principal knew or expected that the person
would or might undertake that activity or engage in that conduct.

Meaning of “foreign interference”

 6. In this Act, “foreign interference” —

       (a) means interference that is undertaken by or on behalf of —

               (i) a foreign principal; or

              (ii) another person acting on behalf of a foreign
                   principal; and

       (b) includes any activity undertaken or conduct engaged in as
            part of preparing for, or planning, interference mentioned
            in paragraph (a).

Meaning of “in the public interest”

 7. For the purposes of this Act and without limiting the generality of
the expression, it is in the public interest to do anything if the doing of
that thing is necessary or expedient —

       (a) in the interest of the security of Singapore or any part of
            Singapore;

       (b) to protect public health or public finances, or to secure
            public safety or public tranquillity;

       (c) in the interest of friendly relations of Singapore with other
            countries;

       (d) to prevent incitement of feelings of enmity, hatred or
            ill‑will between different groups of people in Singapore
            which may endanger the public peace and public order of
            Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
26  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (e) to prevent a diminution of public confidence in the
            performance of any duty or function of, or in the
            exercise of any power by, the Government or a public
            authority, or a part of the Government or a public authority;
            or

        (f) to prevent any foreign interference directed towards a
            political end in Singapore.

Meaning of “directed towards a political end in Singapore”

 8. For the purposes of this Act, an activity or a conduct is directed
towards a political end in Singapore if a purpose of the activity or
conduct (whether or not there are other purposes) is any of the
following purposes or a combination of these purposes:

       (a) to promote the interests of a political party, or a Part 4
            politically significant entity, in Singapore;

       (b) to influence, or seek to influence, the outcome of any
            election or national referendum under any written law;

       (c) to influence, or seek to influence, Singapore governmental
            decisions;

       (d) to influence, or seek to influence, any aspect (including the
            outcome) of any one or more of the following:

               (i) proceedings in Parliament;

              (ii) proceedings of the Presidential Council for Minority
                   Rights;

             (iii) proceedings of the Council of Presidential Advisers;

             (iv) proceedings of the Malay Community Committee or
                   Indian and Other Minority Communities Committee
                   established under section 27C of the Parliamentary
                   Elections Act 1954;

              (v) proceedings of the Community Committee
                   established under section 8E of the Presidential
                   Elections Act 1991 or any Sub‑Committee
                   mentioned in that section;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         27

             (vi) proceedings of the Presidential Elections Committee
                   established under Article 18 of the Constitution;

       (e) to bring about, or seek to bring about, changes of the law in
            the whole or a part of Singapore, or to otherwise influence,
            or seek to influence, the legislative process in Singapore;

        (f) to influence, or seek to influence, public opinion on a
            matter which, in Singapore, is a matter of public
            controversy;

       (g) to influence, or seek to influence, any aspect or to promote
            or oppose political views, or public conduct relating to
            activities that have become the subject of a political debate,
            in Singapore.

Meaning of “influencing Singapore governmental
decisions”, etc.

 9.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person undertakes an activity
or engages in conduct for the purpose of influencing or seeking to
influence a Singapore governmental decision if any purpose of the
activity or conduct is to influence one or more of the following:

       (a) a process in respect of a Singapore governmental decision;

       (b) the public in relation to any aspect of a process mentioned
            in paragraph (a).

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a Singapore governmental decision
means an act or a policy of the Government or a public authority, such
as a decision made by any of the following in the discharge of their
respective functions:

       (a) the President;

       (b) the Cabinet or a committee of the Cabinet;

       (c) a Minister or Ministers;

       (d) any Ministry, department or Organ of State, but not the
            following:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
28  NO. 28 OF 2021

               (i) the Supreme Court or any subordinate courts in the
                   exercise of the judicial power of Singapore vested in
                   them by the Constitution;

              (ii) a quasi‑judicial body constituted by or under any
                   public Act in the discharge of its function of hearing
                   and resolving disputes or conducting mediation or
                   conciliation under that written law;

       (e) any public authority;

        (f) an individual in the course of performing his or her
            functions in relation to a person or an agency mentioned in
            paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e).

 (3) A reference to a Singapore governmental decision in
subsection (1) or (2) includes a decision of any kind in relation to
any matter (including administrative and policy matters) whether or
not the decision is formal, and whether or not the decision is final.

Undertaking “electronic communications activity” or “online
communications activity”

 10.—(1) In this Act, a person undertakes electronic
communications activity in relation to any information or material
if the person communicates or distributes the information or material,
or something that contains the information or material, whether or not
in the course of business, on or by —

       (a) an SMS service;

       (b) an MMS service;

       (c) a social media service;

       (d) a relevant electronic service; or

       (e) an internet access service.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), a person is also to be treated,
for the purposes of this Act, as undertaking electronic
communications activity in relation to any information or material
(whether or not also produced by the person) if the person does any of
the following, in the course of business or otherwise:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
   FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

   (COUNTERMEASURES)                                         29

   (a) describe to the general public in Singapore how to obtain
        access to the information or material, or something that
        contains the information or material, that is provided or
        posted in a manner described in subsection (1);

.  Illustration

         Setting out the name of a website, an IP address, a URL,
   a password or the name of a newsgroup.

       (b) give the information or material, or something that
            contains the information or material, to an intermediary
            to communicate or distribute to the public;

       (c) initiate or instigate the sending of information or material
            to end‑users of a social media service, a relevant electronic
            service or an internet access service who do not voluntarily
            access the information or material, by means which do not
            need any individual to operate the systems that cause
            information or material to be provided on or sent using that
            service;

       (d) make known the information or material, or something
            containing the information or material, to the public by any
            other means online.

 (3) In this Act, a person undertakes online communications activity
in relation to any information or material if the person communicates
or distributes the information or material, or something that contains
the information or material, whether or not in the course of business,
on or by —

       (a) a social media service;

       (b) a relevant electronic service; or

       (c) an internet access service.

 (4) However, a person does not undertake an electronic
communications activity or online communications activity in
relation to any information or material by reason only that —

       (a) the person is a provider of —

               (i) a social media service;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
30  NO. 28 OF 2021

              (ii) an internet access service;

             (iii) a telecommunication service;

             (iv) a relevant electronic service; or

              (v) a hosting service; and

       (b) the person makes available, in the course of business of
            providing a service mentioned in paragraph (a),
            information or material produced entirely by another
            person —

               (i) without altering the information or material; or

              (ii) only altering the information or material to the extent
                   to fit time, space or format constraints.

When is information provided, posted or removed from social
media service, etc.

 11.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, information or material is
provided on a social media service or relevant electronic service, or
provided using an internet access service, if the information or
material is accessible to, or delivered to, one or more of the end‑users
using the service.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, information or material is posted
on a social media service or relevant electronic service, or posted
using an internet access service, by an end‑user if the end‑user causes
the information or material to be accessible to, or delivered to, one or
more other end‑users using the service.

 (3) For the purposes of this Part, information or material is removed
from a social media service or relevant electronic service or an
internet access service if the information or material is neither
accessible to, nor delivered to, any of the end‑users using the service.

Meaning of “publish in Singapore” and associated terms

 12.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, a person publishes in
Singapore any information or material if the person —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         31

       (a) includes the information or material in a newspaper,
            magazine, leaflet, ticket or other document that is
            available, or distributed, to the public;

       (b) includes the information or material, or something that
            contains the information or material, on an online location
            or in any way that renders the information or material
            accessible from the Internet;

       (c) includes the information or material in a film, video,
            television programme or radio programme that is, or is
            intended to be, seen or heard by the public;

       (d) displays, screens or plays the information or material, or
            something that contains the information or material, so that
            it can be seen or heard in or from a public place in
            Singapore, or any vehicle, vessel, train or aircraft in
            Singapore, or any workplace in Singapore;

       (e) sells, hires or supplies the information or material, or
            something containing the information or material, to the
            public, or offers the information or material, or something
            containing the information or material, for sale or supply
            to, or hire by, the public; or

        (f) makes known the information or material to the public in
            any other manner or by any other means.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), where information or material
is made available, distributed or communicated in electronic or
digital form, the information or material is to be taken to be published
in Singapore if —

       (a) any person physically present in Singapore accesses or is
            capable of having access to the information or material;

       (b) the information or material originates in Singapore, even if
            none of the persons capable of having access to the
            information or material is physically present in Singapore;
            or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
32  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (c) for information or material which did not originate in
            Singapore, or the origin of which cannot be determined, all
            of the following apply:

               (i) the information or material is made available,
                   displayed, distributed or communicated or caused
                   to be made available, displayed, distributed or
                   communicated to the public by a
                   Singapore‑connected person or the
                   Singapore‑connected person takes part in that
                   making available, display, distribution or
                   communication of that information or material to
                   the public;

              (ii) the information or material is accessible by persons
                   physically present in Singapore.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), a “Singapore‑connected
person” means —

       (a) a citizen of Singapore;

       (b) a Singapore permanent resident;

       (c) a person physically present in Singapore;

       (d) an entity which is registered in Singapore (even if
            incorporated outside Singapore), or is incorporated,
            under any written law; or

       (e) a corporation sole or corporation aggregate established
            under a private Act.

Supplementary interpretive provisions for communications
activity

 13.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “app distribution service” means a service that enables end‑users
         physically present in Singapore —

              (a) to download an app that facilitates the posting of
                   information or material on a social media service or a
                   relevant electronic service; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         33

        (b) where the download of the app is by means of an
             internet access service;

“covered information or material”, in relation to a Part 3
   direction, means any information or material that —

        (a) is or has been published in Singapore because of any
             online communications activity; and

        (b) is —

               (i) in the case of a Class 4 must‑carry direction —
                    about a proscribed online location covered by
                    the Class 4 must‑carry direction; or

               (ii) in the case of any other Part 3 direction —
                    identified in the direction, in accordance with
                    Division 2 of Part 3, as the information or
                    material covered by the direction;

“electronic service” means —

        (a) a service that allows end‑users to access information
             or material using a broadcasting service or a
             telecommunication service for carrying messages or
             other information or material (whether between
             persons and persons, things and things or persons
             and things); or

        (b) a service that delivers information or material to
             persons having equipment appropriate for receiving
             that information or material, where the delivery of the
             service is by a broadcasting service or
             telecommunication service described in
             paragraph (a);

“functionality”, in relation to a social media service or relevant
   electronic service or an internet access service, includes —

        (a) any feature that enables interactions of any
             description between end‑users of the service;

        (b) any feature that enables end‑users to search online
             locations or databases, index search results or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
34  NO. 28 OF 2021

        otherwise retrieve information or material from the
        search results; and

    (c) any feature enabling an end‑user to do anything as
        follows:

           (i) creating a user profile, including an anonymous
               or pseudonymous profile;

          (ii) searching within the service for user‑generated
               content or other users of the service;

         (iii) forwarding content to, or sharing content with,
               other users of the service;

          (iv) sharing content on any internet‑based services;

          (v) sending direct messages to or speaking to other
               users of the service, or interacting with them in
               another way (such as by playing a game);

          (vi) expressing a view on content;

.   Examples

          Applying a “like” or “dislike” button or other
    similar button.

    Applying an emoji or symbol of any kind.

    Engaging in yes/no voting.

    Rating or scoring content in any way.

    (vii) sharing current or historic location information
           with other users of the service, recording a
           user’s movements, or identifying which other
           users of the service are nearby;

    (viii) following or subscribing to particular kinds of
           content or particular users of the service;

     (ix) creating lists, collections, archives or
           directories of content or users of the service;

      (x) tagging or labelling content present on the
           service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
   FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

   (COUNTERMEASURES)                                         35

                 (xi) uploading content relating to goods or services;

                (xii) applying or changing settings on the service
                       which affect the presentation of user‑generated
                       content on the service;

               (xiii) accessing other internet services through
                       content present on the service (such as
                       through hyperlinks);

   “identified”, for any covered information or material under a
      Part 3 direction, means information or material that is
      identified specially, or described generally as to be
      identifiable, in the Part 3 direction as the covered
      information or material;

   “internet access service” means a telecommunication service
      between a point in Singapore and another point in Singapore
      or between 2 points, one of which is in Singapore, that —

.  (a) enables end‑users to access information or material

   on the Internet using that service; or

      (b) delivers information or material to persons having
           equipment appropriate for receiving that information
           or material on the Internet, where the delivery of the
           service is by a telecommunication service described
           in paragraph (a),

   but excludes a relevant electronic service, a social media
   service and any other telecommunication service excluded
   by the Regulations;

                                      Illustrations

         Internet Access Service Provider licensed under the
   Telecommunications Act 1999.

         Internet reseller service, localised or non‑localised.

   “MMS” means an electronic service that enables the
      transmission of multimedia messages (such as visual or
      voice communication) from an end‑user on a mobile

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
36  NO. 28 OF 2021

       telephone to another mobile telephone through a
       telecommunication service;

    “MMS message” means a message (whether or not accompanied
       by any sound or images) sent using an MMS;

    “point‑to‑multipoint service” means an electronic service which
       allows a person to transmit material to more than one
       end‑user simultaneously;

    “proprietor”, for an online location, means a person who —

            (a) develops and maintains the online location;

            (b) organises, manages or supervises the use of the
                 online location;

            (c) manages or regulates membership of, or access to, the
                 online location; or

            (d) has the authority to decide whether any information
                 or material may be included or excluded on the online
                 location, or where to place the information or
                 material on the online location or otherwise
                 exercise editorial control over the online location;

    “relevant activities”, for a provider of a social media service, a
       relevant electronic service or an internet access service, has
       the meaning given by subsection (3);

    “relevant electronic service” means any of the following
       electronic services that is supplied to the public:

            (a) an electronic service that enables end‑users to
                 communicate, by means of email, with other
                 end‑users;

            (b) an online instant messaging service that enables
                 end‑users to communicate with other end‑users;

            (c) a service that enables end‑users to play online games
                 with other end‑users;

            (d) a service that specialises in providing links or
                 facilitating access to, or information about, online

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         37

                 locations, such as (but not limited to) a search engine,
                 directory service or web browser;

            (e) a point‑to‑multipoint service;

    “SMS” means an electronic service that enables the transmission
        of short text messages from an end‑user on a mobile
        telephone to another mobile telephone through a
        telecommunication service;

    “SMS message” means a text message sent using an SMS;

    “social media service” means —

            (a) an electronic service that satisfies all the following
                 characteristics:

                    (i) the sole or primary purpose of the service is to
                        enable online interaction or linking between
                        2 or more end‑users (including enabling
                        end‑users to share content for social purposes);

                   (ii) the service allows end‑users to post
                        information or material on the service;

                  (iii) such other characteristics as are prescribed by
                        Regulations; or

            (b) an electronic service prescribed by Regulations as a
                 social media service,

        but does not include a service which would otherwise be a
        social media service if none of the information or material on
        the service is accessible by, or delivered to, one or more
        end‑users physically present in Singapore.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, if —

      (a) a person (H) hosts stored information or stored material
           that has been posted —

             (i) on a social media service;

            (ii) on a relevant electronic service; or

            (iii) using an internet access service; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
38  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) H or another person provides —

               (i) a social media service;

              (ii) a relevant electronic service; or

             (iii) an internet access service,

       (b) by which the hosted information or material is provided,

the hosting of the stored information or stored material by H must be
treated as the provision by H of a hosting service in relation to the
social media service, relevant electronic service or internet access
service unless the hosting of stored information or stored material is
integral to the provision of the social media service, relevant
electronic service or internet access service.

 (3) For the purposes of this Part, the relevant activities of a person
who is the provider of a social media service, a relevant electronic
service or an internet access service are —

       (a) for a provider of a social media service — the provision of
            the social media service to one or more end‑users who are
            physically present in Singapore if the service has accounts
            for end‑users;

       (b) for the provider of a relevant electronic service — the
            provision of the relevant electronic service to one or more
            end‑users who are physically present in Singapore if the
            service has accounts for end‑users; or

       (c) for the provider of an internet access service —

               (i) the operation by the person of any
                   telecommunication network (including installation
                   or plant) or facility in Singapore in connection with
                   the provision of the internet access service; and

              (ii) the provision of the internet access service with a
                   Singapore link.

 (4) In determining whether an end‑user is physically present in
Singapore, it is to be assumed that the end‑user will not falsify or
conceal the end‑user’s identity or location.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         39

 (5) For the purposes of this Act —

       (a) an online location has a Singapore link if any information
            or material included or otherwise on, or any service
            provided from the online location, is accessible by, or
            delivered to, one or more end‑users physically present in
            Singapore; and

       (b) an internet access service has a Singapore link if any
            information or material included or otherwise provided
            using that service is accessible by, or delivered to, one or
            more end‑users of the service who are physically present in
            Singapore.

Meaning of “politically significant person”

 14. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Part 4 politically significant entity” means an entity who is
         designated under section 47(1) as a politically significant
         person;

      “Part 4 politically significant person” means any of the
         following:

              (a) a Part 4 politically significant entity;

              (b) an individual who is designated under section 48(1)
                   as a politically significant person;

      “politically significant person” means any of the following:

              (a) a political party;

              (b) a candidate;

              (c) an election agent of a candidate;

              (d) a political office holder;

              (e) a Member of Parliament (whether or not a political
                   office holder);

              (f) a member of the executive committee or similar
                   governing body of a political party, whether or not he
                   or she is also a responsible officer of that political

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
40  NO. 28 OF 2021

                   party (called in this Act a senior political party
                   official);

              (g) a Part 4 politically significant person.

Meaning of “value” in relation to donations and benefits

 15.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the value of any donation or
benefit which is a gift to a person is the market value of the property
in question.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, where any donation or benefit,
being money or property, is transferred to a person for a consideration
which is less than the value of the money or market value of the
property, the value of the donation or benefit is the difference
between —

       (a) the value of the money, or the market value of the property,
            in question; and

       (b) the consideration provided by or on behalf of the person.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, the value of any donation or benefit
which is either —

       (a) any money lent to a person otherwise than on commercial
            terms; or

       (b) the provision otherwise than on commercial terms of any
            property, services or facilities (including the services of
            any person),

is the amount that is the difference between the actual cost (if any) to
the person and the cost that would have been incurred by the person
had the loan been made, or the property, services or facilities been
provided, on commercial terms.

 (4) The value of any donation, being the provision of any
sponsorship in relation to a person is the value in monetary terms
of the benefit conferred by the sponsorship in question on the person,
and any such value conferred on the sponsor must be disregarded.

 (5) In this section, “market value”, in relation to any property,
means the price which that property might reasonably be expected to
fetch on a sale in the open market.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         41

 (6) A reference in this Act to the giving or transfer of any donation
or other property to a person includes a reference to its being so given
or transferred either directly or indirectly through any third person.

 (7) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a donation or other
property is accepted by a person if it is received and retained by the
person for the person’s use or benefit.

Determining purpose of an activity

 16. In this Act, the purpose of an activity or a conduct may be
determined by having regard to any one or more of the following:

       (a) the intention of any person on whose behalf the activity is
            undertaken or the conduct is engaged in, as the case may
            be;

       (b) the intention or belief of the person undertaking the activity
            or engaging in the conduct or that person’s belief (if any)
            about the intention of any person in paragraph (a) on
            whose behalf the activity is undertaken or the conduct is
            engaged in;

       (c) all of the circumstances in which the activity is undertaken
            or the conduct is engaged in.

                                    PART 2

          FOREIGN INTERFERENCE BY ELECTRONIC
                    COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY

Clandestine foreign interference by electronic communications
activity

 17.—(1) A person (Y) commits an offence if —

       (a) Y undertakes electronic communications activity that
            results in or involves publishing in Singapore any
            information or material;

       (b) Y undertakes the electronic communications activity on
            behalf of —

               (i) a foreign principal; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
42  NO. 28 OF 2021

            (ii) another person acting on behalf of a foreign
                  principal;

      (c) Y knows or has reason to believe that the electronic
           communications activity, or the information or material
           published in Singapore —

             (i) is or is likely to be prejudicial to the security of
                  Singapore or any part of Singapore;

            (ii) is or is likely to be prejudicial to public health, public
                  safety, public tranquillity or public finances;

            (iii) is or is likely to be prejudicial to the friendly relations
                  of Singapore with other countries;

            (iv) incites or is likely to incite feelings of enmity, hatred
                  or ill‑will between different groups of people in
                  Singapore which may endanger the public peace and
                  public order of Singapore;

             (v) diminishes or is likely to diminish public confidence
                  in the performance of any duty or function of, or in
                  the exercise of any power by, the Government or a
                  public authority, or a part of the Government or
                  public authority; or

            (vi) is or is likely to be directed towards a political end in
                  Singapore; and

      (d) any part of —

             (i) Y’s undertaking on behalf of a person mentioned in
                  paragraph (b); or

            (ii) Y’s electronic communications activity,

      (d) is covert or involves deception.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

      (a) Y does not need to have in mind a particular foreign
           country or foreign principal; and

      (b) Y may have in mind more than one foreign country or
           foreign principal.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         43

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            7 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

Clandestine foreign interference of target using electronic
communications activity

 18.—(1) A person (Z) commits an offence if —

       (a) Z undertakes electronic communications activity that
            results in or involves publishing in Singapore
            information or material;

       (b) Z undertakes the electronic communications activity on
            behalf of —

               (i) a foreign principal; or

              (ii) another person acting on behalf of a foreign
                   principal;

       (c) Z intends that the electronic communications activity, or
            the information or material published in Singapore, will
            influence another person (called in this section the targeted
            person) to undertake activity, or engage in conduct, in
            Singapore that —

               (i) is or is likely to be prejudicial to the security of
                   Singapore or any part of Singapore;

              (ii) is or is likely to be prejudicial to public health, public
                   safety, public tranquillity or public finances;

             (iii) is or is likely to be prejudicial to the friendly relations
                   of Singapore with other countries;

             (iv) incites or is likely to incite feelings of enmity, hatred
                   or ill‑will between different groups of people in
                   Singapore which may endanger the public peace and
                   public order of Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
44  NO. 28 OF 2021

              (v) diminishes or is likely to diminish public confidence
                   in the performance of any duty or function of, or in
                   the exercise of any power by, the Government or a
                   public authority, or a part of the Government or
                   public authority; or

             (vi) is or is likely to be directed towards a political end in
                   Singapore; and

       (d) Z conceals from, or fails to disclose to, the targeted person
            the circumstance mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1) —

       (a) Z does not need to have in mind a particular foreign
            country or foreign principal; and

       (b) Z may have in mind more than one foreign country or
            foreign principal.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            14 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million.

Preparing for or planning an offence under section 17 or 18

 19.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person engages in conduct; and

       (b) the person does so with the intention of preparing for, or
            planning, the commission of an offence under section 17 or
            18.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies —

       (a) whether or not an offence under section 17 or 18 is
            committed;

       (b) whether or not the person engages in the conduct in
            preparation for, or planning, a specific offence under
            section 17 or 18; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         45

       (c) whether or not the person engages in the conduct in
            preparation for, or planning, more than one such offence.

 (3) Section 38 of the Interpretation Act 1965 and section 511 of the
Penal Code 1871 do not apply in relation to an offence under
section 17 or 18.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the offence involves an intention of preparing for, or
            planning, the commission of an offence under
            section 17 —

               (i) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
                   $30,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                   5 years or to both; or

              (ii) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $300,000;
                   and

       (b) where the offence involves an intention of preparing for, or
            planning, the commission of an offence under
            section 18 —

               (i) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
                   $60,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                   9 years or to both; or

              (ii) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $600,000.

                                    PART 3

    DIRECTIONS AGAINST HARMFUL FOREIGN ONLINE
                    COMMUNICATIONS ACTIVITY

                     Division 1 — Ministerial powers

Authorisation by Minister for direction to be given

 20.—(1) The Minister may authorise the competent authority to
give one or more Part 3 directions as specified by the Minister in the
authorisation where, in the opinion of the Minister —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
46  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (a) there is undertaking of online communications activity, or
            online communications activity has been undertaken —

               (i) wholly or partly in Singapore;

              (ii) wholly or partly on a Singapore aircraft or Singapore
                   vessel, whether the aircraft or vessel is in or outside
                   Singapore at the time of the conduct; or

             (iii) wholly outside Singapore;

       (b) the online communications activity is or has been
            undertaken, or is suspected of being or having been
            undertaken, by or on behalf of a foreign principal;

       (c) the online communications activity results in any
            information or material being published in Singapore; and

       (d) it is in the public interest to authorise the giving of that or
            those Part 3 direction or directions, after having regard to
            the circumstances of the case.

 (2) When authorised by the Minister under subsection (1), the
competent authority must immediately give the Part 3 direction or
directions specified in the authorisation.

 (3) However, if any information or material was published in
Singapore before the date of commencement of this section,
subsection (1) does not apply to the information or material unless
the information or material remains published in Singapore on or
after that date.

Authorisation by Minister for anticipatory direction

 21.—(1) The Minister may authorise the competent authority to
give an anticipatory direction where the Minister —

       (a) suspects or has reason to believe that a person is engaging
            in conduct —

               (i) wholly or partly in Singapore;

              (ii) wholly or partly on a Singapore aircraft or Singapore
                   vessel, whether the aircraft or vessel is in or outside
                   Singapore at the time of the conduct; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         47

             (iii) wholly outside Singapore,

       (a) with the intention of preparing for, or planning to
            undertake, online communications activity by or on
            behalf of a foreign principal;

       (b) has reason to believe that, as a result of that online
            communications activity, information or material is likely
            to be published in Singapore; and

       (c) is of the opinion that it is in the public interest to authorise
            the giving of the anticipatory direction, after having regard
            to the circumstances of the case.

 (2) When authorised by the Minister under subsection (1), the
competent authority must immediately give the anticipatory direction
specified in the authorisation.

 (3) However, if any information or material was published in
Singapore before the date of commencement of this section,
subsection (1) does not apply to the information or material unless
the information or material remains published in Singapore on or
after that date.

 (4) In this section, an anticipatory direction is any of the following:

       (a) a technical assistance direction;

       (b) an account restriction direction.

Self‑initiated cancellation or variation of authorisation

 22.—(1) The Minister may at any time, on his or her own
initiative —

       (a) cancel any authorisation made under section 20(1), 21(1)
            or 23(3)(b) or (c); or

       (b) substitute any authorisation made under section 20(1),
            21(1) or 23(3)(b) or (c) with another authorisation that the
            Minister might have made under section 20 or 21.

 (2) Section 21(2) applies to a decision made under
subsection (1)(b).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
48  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (3) Where the Minister makes a decision under subsection (1)(a),
the competent authority must give written notice of the cancellation
of the authorisation to every person who had been given a Part 3
direction pursuant to that cancelled authorisation.

Reconsideration by Minister of authorisation

 23.—(1) Where any Part 3 direction is given by the competent
authority pursuant to an authorisation under section 20(1), 21(1) or
22(1)(b), the person to whom the direction is given may apply to the
Minister for reconsideration of the authorisation and any of the Part 3
directions specified in that authorisation.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) by a person to whom a
Part 3 direction is given must be made —

       (a) in a prescribed manner; and

       (b) before the expiry of the time specified in the Part 3
            direction, being a time not later than the 30th day after the
            direction was given.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1) for
reconsideration, the Minister may —

       (a) wholly cancel the authorisation under section 20(1), 21(1)
            or 22(1)(b), and every Part 3 direction specified in the
            authorisation, if the Minister is of the opinion that it is not
            in the public interest that the authorisation and such
            direction continue;

       (b) substitute the authorisation under section 20(1), 21(1) or
            22(1)(b), which is the subject of the application (called the
            initial authorisation), with another authorisation that the
            Minister might have made under section 20 or 21; or

       (c) affirm the initial authorisation and every Part 3 direction
            specified in the initial authorisation.

 (4) Sections 20 and 21 apply in the making of a decision under
subsection (3).

 (5) When a substitute authorisation is made by the Minister under
subsection (3)(b), the competent authority must immediately give the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         49

Part 3 direction or directions specified in the substitute authorisation
in the same manner required under sections 20 and 21.

 (6) When an initial authorisation is cancelled by the Minister under
subsection (3)(a) or affirmed under subsection (3)(c), or a substitute
authorisation is made under subsection (3)(b), the Minister must give
notice (as the case may be) of —

       (a) the cancellation or affirmation (as the case may be) to
            every person given a Part 3 direction under the initial
            authorisation; or

       (b) the making of a substitute authorisation to the person who
            applied for reconsideration of the initial authorisation.

Proscribed online location — declaration

 24.—(1) The Minister may declare an online location with a
Singapore link as a proscribed online location if a Part 3 direction
(except a technical assistance direction or an app removal direction)
is given in relation to any information or material included or
otherwise on, or any service provided from, the online location.

 (2) A declaration under this section ceases to have effect on a date
specified, or worked out by a formula specified, in the declaration,
which must not in any case be more than 2 years in total after the
making of the declaration.

 (3) Once a declaration is made and before the date it comes into
effect, the competent authority must —

       (a) publish a notice of the making of the declaration in a
            manner as will secure adequate publicity for the fact of
            making of the declaration —

               (i) stating that a declaration has been made under this
                   section; and

              (ii) setting out the URL, domain name, or any other
                   unique identifier of the online location, to which the
                   declaration relates; and

       (b) make reasonable efforts to give a copy of the declaration to
            the proprietor of the proscribed online location.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
50  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (4) However, failure to publish a notice under subsection (3) in
respect of any declaration does not invalidate the declaration.

Self‑initiated revocation or variation of declaration

 25.—(1) The Minister may at any time, on his or her own
initiative —

       (a) revoke any declaration made under section 24(1); or

       (b) substitute any declaration made under section 24(1) or
            26(3)(b) or (c) with another declaration that the Minister
            might have made under section 24.

 (2) Section 24(3) and (4) applies to a decision made under this
section.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 01/06/2023]

Reconsideration by Minister of declaration of proscribed
online location

 26.—(1) After an online location with a Singapore link is declared
under section 24 or 25(1)(b) as a proscribed online location, any
proprietor of that online location may apply to the Minister for a
reconsideration of the declaration.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) by a proprietor of an online
location must be made —

       (a) in a prescribed manner; and

       (b) not later than the 30th day after the declaration takes effect.

 (3) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Minister may —

       (a) wholly revoke the declaration under section 24 or 25(1)(b);

       (b) substitute the declaration under section 24 or 25(1)(b)
            which is the subject of the application (called the initial
            declaration), with another declaration for a shorter period
            that the Minister might have made under section 24; or

       (c) affirm the initial declaration.

 (4) Section 24 applies in the making of a decision under
subsection (3).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         51

 (5) When an initial declaration is revoked by the Minister under
subsection (3)(a) or affirmed under subsection (3)(c), or a substitute
declaration is made under subsection (3)(b), the Minister must give
notice (as the case may be) of —

       (a) the revocation or affirmation (as the case may be) to every
            proprietor of the online location in question; or

       (b) the making of a substitute declaration to the person who
            applied for reconsideration of the initial declaration.

 (6) When a declaration is revoked by the Minister under
subsection (3)(a), the competent authority must cause the giving of
notice of the revocation —

       (a) in the same manner in which the notice of the making of
            the declaration was first given; or

       (b) in a manner as will secure adequate publicity or notice to
            the proprietor (or both) for the fact of the revocation.

 (7) When an initial declaration is affirmed under subsection (3)(c),
the competent authority must cause the giving of notice of the
affirmation —

       (a) in the same manner in which the notice of the making of
            the initial declaration was first given; or

       (b) in a manner as will secure adequate publicity or notice to
            the proprietor (or both) for the fact of the affirmation.

 (8) However, failure to publish a notice under subsection (6) or (7)
in respect of any declaration does not invalidate the revocation of the
declaration or the initial declaration affirmed.

Public notice of revocation of declaration

 27.—(1) Where a declaration under section 24, 25(1)(b) or 26(3)(b)
or (c) is revoked under this Act, the competent authority must give
notice of the revocation —

       (a) in the same manner in which the notice of the making of
            the declaration was first given; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
52                      NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) in a manner as will secure adequate publicity or notice to
            the proprietor (or both) for the fact of the revocation.

 (2) However, failure to publish a notice under subsection (1) in
respect of any declaration does not invalidate the revocation of the
declaration.

Authorisation regardless of offence

 28. To avoid doubt, sections 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26 apply —

       (a) whether or not an offence under section 17, 18, 19, 39 or 40
            is committed;

       (b) whether or not a person engages in the conduct in
            preparation for, or planning, a specific offence under
            section 17, 18, 19, 39 or 40; and

       (c) whether or not a person engages in the conduct in
            preparation for, or planning, more than one such offence.

                      Division 2 — Part 3 directions

Types of Part 3 directions

 29. The Part 3 directions and the persons to whom they may be
given are in the table below:

Item  Direction .          Recipient may be

    1. Stop                . A particular person, or particular
         communication        end‑user of a social media service or
         (end‑user)           relevant electronic service or an
         direction            internet access service.

    2. Disabling direction A provider of a social media service.

    3. Class 1 must‑carry  A provider of a relevant electronic
         direction         service.

                           A particular person, or particular
                           end‑user to whom a stop
                           communication (end‑user) direction
                           is given.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
                 FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

                 (COUNTERMEASURES)                              53

Item  Direction  .             Recipient may be

                    Any other particular person, or
                    particular end‑user of a social media
                    service or relevant electronic service
                    or an internet access service.

4. Class 2 must‑carry A provider of a social media service.
     direction

                    A provider of a relevant electronic
                    service.

5. Class 3 must‑carry A provider of a social media service.
     direction

                    A provider of a relevant electronic
                    service.

                    A provider of a telecommunication
                    service who holds a licence under
                    section 5 of the Telecommunications
                    Act 1999.

                    A person who is authorised by a
                    permit under section 21 of the
                    Newspaper and Printing Presses
                    Act 1974 to publish (for sale or
                    otherwise) a newspaper in Singapore.

                    A person who is authorised by a
                    licence under section 8 of the
                    Broadcasting Act 1994 to provide a
                    licensable broadcasting service in or
                    from Singapore.

                    A provider of a prescribed service that
                    is likely to bring the giving of a
                    Class 3 must‑carry direction to the
                    attention of the public.

6. Class 4 must‑carry A proprietor of a proscribed online

      direction     location.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
54                   NO. 28 OF 2021

Item  Direction .            Recipient may be

    7. Remedial              A person to whom a Class 2
         must‑carry          must‑carry direction or a Class 3
         direction           must‑carry direction is given and
                             who has failed to comply with the
                             direction in a rectifiable way.

    8. Class 1 access A provider of an internet access
         blocking direction service.

    9. Class 2 access        A provider of an internet access
         blocking direction  service by means of which
                             information or material on the
                             proscribed online location continues
                             to be published in Singapore.

                             A provider of a social media service
                             or a relevant electronic service by
                             means of which one or more
                             end‑users in Singapore have used or
                             are using the same to access
                             information or material on the
                             proscribed online location.

10. Account restriction A provider of a social media service.
      direction

                             A provider of a relevant electronic
                             service.

11. Service restriction A provider of a social media service.
      direction

                             A provider of a relevant electronic
                             service.

                             A provider of an internet access
                             service with a Singapore link.

12. Technical                A provider of a social media service.
      assistance
      direction

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
                 FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

                    (COUNTERMEASURES)                           55

Item     Direction  .            Recipient may be

                       A provider of a relevant electronic
                       service.

                       A provider of an internet access
                       service with a Singapore link.

                       A provider of a hosting service.

                       A provider of an app distribution
                       service.

                       A proprietor of an online location.

13. App          removal A provider of an app distribution

      direction        service.

14. Disgorgement       A citizen of Singapore, whether or not
      direction        resident in Singapore and whether or
                       not a Part 4 politically significant
                       person.

                       An individual who is not a citizen of
                       Singapore but is resident in
                       Singapore.

                       A partnership carrying on a business
                       in Singapore and registered under the
                       Business Names Registration
                       Act 2014.

                       A body corporate that is registered
                       under the Companies Act 1967 or the
                       Limited Liability Partnerships
                       Act 2005.

                       An association (whether incorporate
                       or not) that is registered under the
                       Co‑operative Societies Act 1979, the
                       Societies Act 1966, the Trade Unions

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
56    NO. 28 OF 2021

Item  Direction .  Recipient may be

                   Act 1940 or the Platform Workers Act
                   2024.

                                                                                [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

Stop communication (end‑user) direction — content

 30. A stop communication (end‑user) direction may require the
particular person or particular end‑user to whom it is given to do one
or more of the following within the time specified in the direction:

       (a) to take all reasonable steps to ensure the removal, from the
            social media service, relevant electronic service or internet
            access service (as the case may be) of covered information
            or material identified in the direction that —

               (i) the person or end‑user provided or posted on the
                   social media service or relevant electronic service or
                   using the internet access service; and

              (ii) is published in Singapore;

       (b) to stop undertaking online communications activity to
            further publish in Singapore the following:

               (i) the covered information or material identified in the
                   direction;

              (ii) any information or material that is similar to the
                   information or material in sub‑paragraph (i).

Disabling direction — content

 31. A disabling direction may require a person who is the provider
of a social media service, or a relevant electronic service, by means of
which covered information or material identified in the direction is or
has been published in Singapore, to take all reasonable steps, in
relation to all or any of the person’s relevant activities, to disable
access by end‑users in Singapore to all or any of the following:

       (a) that covered information or material provided on or by that
            social media service or relevant electronic service;

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         57

       (b) any other identical copies of that covered information or
            material provided on or by that social media service or
            relevant electronic service, where this requirement is
            expressed in the direction.

Must‑carry directions — content

 32.—(1) A must‑carry direction may be a Class 1, Class 2, Class 3
or Class 4 must‑carry direction, or a remedial must‑carry direction.

 (2) A must‑carry direction may require a person to whom it is given
to take all reasonable steps, to do all or any of the following within
and during the time specified in the direction, to publish, post, display
or include a mandatory message —

       (a) about the covered information or material identified in the
            direction;

       (b) in the manner prescribed by Regulations; and

       (c) in a conspicuous manner as specified in the direction.

 (3) In this section, “mandatory message” means a message or
statement of the text set out, or effect described, in a must‑carry
direction.

 (4) The covered information or material in a Class 1 must‑carry
direction is any of the following information or material which is
identified in the direction:

       (a) if the Class 1 must‑carry direction is given to a particular
            person or end‑user to whom a stop communication
            (end‑user) direction is given —

               (i) any covered information or material identified in the
                   stop communication (end‑user) direction; and

              (ii) any information or material similar to the
                   information or material mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraph (i), which is or has been posted or
                   provided by the end‑user on a social media service or
                   relevant electronic service or using an internet access
                   service;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
58  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) if the Class 1 must‑carry direction is given to any other
            particular person — any information or material which is
            or has been posted or provided by the person on a social
            media service or relevant electronic service or using an
            internet access service.

 (5) The covered information or material in a Class 2 must‑carry
direction is any of the following information or material which is
identified in the direction:

       (a) any information or material which is or has been posted or
            provided on a social media service or relevant electronic
            service or using an internet access service provided by the
            person given the Class 2 must‑carry direction;

       (b) an identical copy of any information or material mentioned
            in paragraph (a) which is or may be accessed by an
            end‑user by means of a social media service or relevant
            electronic service or an internet access service provided by
            the person given the Class 2 must‑carry direction.

 (6) The covered information or material in —

       (a) a Class 3 must‑carry direction is information or material
            which is identified in the direction and any other
            information or material which is similar thereto; or

       (b) a Class 4 must‑carry direction is information or material
            about a proscribed online location.

 (7) The covered information or material in a remedial must‑carry
direction is covered information or material identified in a Class 2
must‑carry direction or Class 3 must‑carry direction which has not
been complied with, and any other information or material which is
similar thereto.

 (8) For the purposes of sections 17 and 18 of the Broadcasting
Act 1994, every Class 3 must‑carry direction given to a person who is
authorised by a licence under section 8 of the Broadcasting Act 1994,
to provide a licensable broadcasting service in or from Singapore —

       (a) is deemed to be a programme provided by the Government
            through the Info‑communications Media Development

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         59

            Authority and required by that Authority to be broadcast
            under the person’s licence; and

       (b) must be broadcast without charge to or subsidy from the
            Info‑communications Media Development Authority or
            the Government.

Access blocking direction — content and preconditions

 33.—(1) An access blocking direction may be a Class 1 access
blocking direction or a Class 2 access blocking direction.

 (2) An access blocking direction may require a provider of a social
media service or relevant electronic service or an internet access
service to whom the direction is given to take all reasonable steps,
within or during the time specified in the direction, to disable access
by every end‑user in Singapore to the covered information or material
in the direction and provided on or by a social media service or
relevant electronic service or on an online location, as the case may
be.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 01/06/2023]

 (3) A Class 1 access blocking direction may be given to a provider
of an internet access service by means of which covered information
or material continues to be published in Singapore, but only where all
the following special preconditions are met:

       (a) a person is given any Part 3 direction (except a technical
            assistance direction);

       (b) the Part 3 direction in paragraph (a) is not cancelled;

       (c) the covered information or material in that Part 3 direction
            in paragraph (a) continues to be published in Singapore
            after that non‑compliance;

       (d) one or more end‑users in Singapore have used or are using
            the internet access service of that provider to access the
            covered information or material.

 (4) A Class 2 access blocking direction must relate to a proscribed
online location only and may be given to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
60  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (a) a provider of an internet access service by means of which
            information or material on the proscribed online location
            continues to be published in Singapore; or

       (b) a provider of a social media service or a relevant electronic
            service by means of which one or more end‑users in
            Singapore have used or are using the same to access
            information or material on the proscribed online location,

but only where the Minister is of the opinion that all the following
special preconditions are met:

       (c) either —

               (i) paid content included on the proscribed online
                   location is published in Singapore after a
                   prescribed period starting the date the declaration
                   is made under section 24, 25 or 26 with respect to
                   that online location; or

              (ii) a Class 4 must‑carry direction relating to the
                   proscribed online location is not complied with;

       (d) the declaration under section 24, 25 or 26 is not revoked;

       (e) one or more end‑users in Singapore have used or are using
            the social media service, relevant electronic service or
            internet access service (as the case may be) of that provider
            to access information or material on that proscribed online
            location.

Account restriction direction — content

 34. An account restriction direction may require the provider of a
social media service or relevant electronic service to take all
reasonable steps, within the time specified in the direction, to
terminate or suspend any functionality of the social media service or
relevant electronic service (as the case may be) that —

       (a) enables interactions of any description between end‑users
            of the service, or sending direct messages to or speaking to
            other end‑users of the service, or interacting with them in
            another way, either —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         61

               (i) generally in relation to end‑users physically present
                   in Singapore; or

              (ii) in relation to any other particular end‑user physically
                   present in Singapore; and

       (b) is provided to one or more particular accounts specified in
            the direction.

Service restriction direction — content

 35.—(1) A service restriction direction may require a provider of a
social media service or relevant electronic service or an internet
access service to whom it is given to take all reasonable steps to do
one or more of the following within the time specified in the
direction, in relation to all or any of the provider’s relevant activities:

       (a) to stop or delay delivery of or access to messages or
            information or material transmitted or accessible to
            end‑users physically present in Singapore who use or
            may use the social media service, relevant electronic
            service or internet access service, as the case may be;

       (b) to restrict access to messages or information or material
            transmitted or accessible to end‑users physically present in
            Singapore who use or may use the social media service,
            relevant electronic service or internet access service, as the
            case may be;

       (c) to alter any functionality of the social media service,
            relevant electronic service or internet access service (as the
            case may be) provided to end‑users physically present in
            Singapore who use or may use the service;

       (d) to suspend or curtail the supply or provision of the service.

 (2) A service restriction direction may require the doing of any
thing in subsection (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) with respect to the provision
of a social media service or relevant electronic service or an internet
access service —

       (a) to any area in Singapore; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
62  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) to one or more groups of end‑users who use or may use the
            service,

but cannot be expressed to apply to the supply or provision of the
service to a particular person.

Technical assistance direction — content

 36. A technical assistance direction may require a person to whom
the direction is given to do one or more of the following within the
time specified in the direction, in relation to all or any of the person’s
relevant activities:

       (a) to provide information about whether any account
            maintained by the person for a customer is that for a
            foreigner;

       (b) to provide technical information or other information about
            the person’s relevant activity as specified in the direction;

       (c) to take any other step directed towards ensuring that the
            person is capable of giving help to the competent authority
            which the competent authority requires in the public
            interest.

App removal direction — content and preconditions

 37.—(1) An app removal direction may require a person to whom
the direction is given to —

       (a) stop enabling end‑users of the app distribution service and
            physically present in Singapore to download, using that
            service, a particular app that is specified in the direction;
            and

       (b) notify the competent authority that the person has stopped
            enabling such end‑users to download that app.

 (2) The special preconditions for an app removal direction are —

       (a) either —

               (i) a Part 3 direction (except a technical assistance
                   direction or another app removal direction) has been
                   given at least once relating to particular covered

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         63

                   information or material of the same or similar kind;
                   or

              (ii) any type of Part 3 direction (except a technical
                   assistance direction or another app removal
                   direction) has been given relating to covered
                   information or material of the same or similar kind;

       (b) none of the Part 3 directions in paragraph (a) has been
            cancelled; and

       (c) one or more end‑users in Singapore are using or may use
            the app to access the covered information or material.

 (3) This Part does not authorise the giving of any app removal
direction to a provider of an app distribution service if no end‑user of
the service who is physically present in Singapore could download an
app using that service.

Disgorgement direction — content

 38.—(1) A disgorgement direction may require a person to whom
the direction is given to do either of the following, within the time
specified in the direction, with respect to covered information or
material published in Singapore by or on behalf of that person by the
undertaking of any online communications activity:

       (a) to take all reasonable steps to send back, or pay an
            equivalent amount of, every defined property accepted by
            the person —

               (i) to the foreign principal who supplied or transferred
                   the property; or

              (ii) to any other person appearing to be acting on behalf
                   of the foreign principal in sub‑paragraph (i);

       (b) to take all reasonable steps to surrender to the competent
            authority the defined property mentioned in paragraph (a)
            or an equivalent amount of the value of the defined
            property.

 (2) Any amount collected by the competent authority under
subsection (1)(b) must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
64  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (3) In this section, a defined property supplied or transferred to a
person includes any benefit, the whole or any part of which is made to
or offered —

       (a) by or on behalf of a foreign principal; and

       (b) with a view to, or otherwise in connection with, the person
            undertaking any online communications activity to publish
            or enable the publishing in Singapore of any information or
            material.

 (4) For the purposes of this section, any property is treated as
accepted by a person to whom a disgorgement direction is given with
respect to covered information or material published in Singapore by
or on behalf of that person by the undertaking of any online
communications activity if —

       (a) any part of the property has been received by the person;
            and

       (b) the whole or part of the property was used, or is intended to
            be used, by the person to meet any expenditure in
            connection with the person undertaking any online
            communications activity to publish or enable the
            publishing in Singapore of the information or material.

                   Division 3 — Special provisions for
                         proscribed online location

Operating proscribed online location

 39.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is a proprietor of a proscribed online location,
            whether or not in the course of business; and

       (b) the person invites, solicits or otherwise procures the giving
            of any benefit —

               (i) for, or purportedly for, meeting any expenditure to
                   operate the proscribed online location; or

              (ii) in exchange, or purportedly in exchange, for services
                   provided on or from the proscribed online location.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         65

                                         Illustrations

      Offering advertising space on the proscribed online location for a price.

      Receiving any consideration for the sale of advertising space on the
proscribed online location.

      Collecting subscriptions for access to any part of the online location.

      Inviting donations to support the online location.

 (2) Subsection (1) extends to a person who engages in any conduct
described in that subsection outside Singapore.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            4 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

 (4) However, where a court convicts any person of an offence under
subsection (1), the court must, in addition to imposing on that person
the punishment in subsection (3), order the person to pay as a penalty,
within the time specified by the court, a sum equal to the amount of
any benefit received in the commission of the offence or the amount
that in the court’s opinion is the value of that benefit; and any such
penalty is recoverable as a fine.

 (5) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1),
it is a defence for the person charged to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that the person did not know, and could not with
reasonable diligence have ascertained, that the online location was a
proscribed online location and had a Singapore link.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (5), a person could not, with
reasonable diligence, have ascertained that an online location of
which the person is proprietor has a Singapore link, if the person
had —

       (a) required every end‑user accessing the online location to
            provide his or her personal particulars and those particulars
            suggested that the end‑user was not physically present in
            Singapore;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
66  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) required end‑users to enter into contracts that were subject
            to an express condition that the end‑user was not to access
            the online location for any service if the end‑user was
            physically present in Singapore;

       (c) informed prospective end‑users that Singapore law
            prohibits the provision of access, or any service on or
            from, the online location to end‑users who are physically
            present in Singapore; and

       (d) taken such other measures as far as reasonably practicable
            to ensure that the online location did not, or could not
            reasonably have, a Singapore link.

 (7) However, it is not a defence to a charge for an offence under this
section that the accused is subject to any duty under any written law,
any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional conduct, that
prevents the person from complying with this section or restricts the
person in such compliance.

 (8) For the purposes of this Division, an online location has a
Singapore link if any information or material included or otherwise
on, or any service provided from the online location, is accessible by,
or delivered to, one or more end‑users physically present in
Singapore.

Providing support to proscribed online location

 40.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person, whether in or outside Singapore, expends or
            applies any property knowing or having reason to believe
            that the expenditure or application supports, helps or
            promotes the publishing in Singapore of any information
            or material on an online location;

       (b) the person knows or ought reasonably to know that the
            online location is a proscribed online location; and

       (c) the person knows or has reason to believe that the
            information or material published in Singapore on that
            online location —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         67

               (i) is or is likely to be prejudicial to the security of
                   Singapore or any part of Singapore;

              (ii) is or is likely to be prejudicial to public health, public
                   safety, public tranquillity or public finances;

             (iii) is or is likely to be prejudicial to the friendly relations
                   of Singapore with other countries;

             (iv) incites or is likely to incite feelings of enmity, hatred
                   or ill‑will between different groups of people in
                   Singapore which may endanger the public peace and
                   public order of Singapore;

              (v) diminishes or is likely to diminish public confidence
                   in the performance of any duty or function of, or in
                   the exercise of any power by, the Government or a
                   public authority, or a part of the Government or
                   public authority; or

             (vi) is or is likely to be directed towards a political end in
                   Singapore.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            3 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

 (3) However, subsection (1) does not apply to a service provider or
a digital advertising intermediary which gives any consideration for
the purpose of communicating any paid content in Singapore on the
declared online location.

 (4) In this section, “property” means money and all other property,
movable or immovable, including things in action and other
intangible or incorporeal property.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
68  NO. 28 OF 2021

Advertising dealings concerning proscribed online location

 41.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person has an advertising dealing with a proprietor of
            an online location;

       (b) the online location becomes a proscribed online location
            with a Singapore link; and

       (c) the person does not take measures or enough measures to
            ensure that any information or material included or
            otherwise on, or any service provided from, the online
            location because of the advertising dealing, is —

               (i) not accessible by, or not delivered to, one or more
                   end‑users physically present in Singapore after the
                   online location becomes a proscribed online
                   location; and

              (ii) not promoted or published in Singapore.

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person has an advertising dealing with anyone —

               (i) that facilitates the access by, or delivery to, one or
                   more end‑users physically present in Singapore; or

              (ii) that promotes or gives publicity to, one or more
                   end‑users physically present in Singapore,

       (a) any information or material included or otherwise on, or
            any service provided from, an online location; and

       (b) the online location is a proscribed online location with a
            Singapore link.

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) extend to a person who engages in any
conduct described in that subsection outside Singapore.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         69

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

 (5) Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection (1),
it is a defence for the person charged to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that the person —

       (a) did not know, and could not with reasonable diligence have
            ascertained, that the online location was a proscribed
            online location and had a Singapore link; and

       (b) took the prescribed steps to ensure that any information or
            material included or otherwise on, or any service provided
            from, the online location because of the accused’s
            advertising dealing, is not accessible by, or not delivered
            to, one or more end‑users physically present in Singapore
            after the online location becomes a proscribed online
            location.

 (6) However, in any proceeding for an offence under subsection (1)
or (2), it is not a defence for the accused to show that —

       (a) the accused did the act in question at the direction of
            another person; or

       (b) the information or material was accessible by, or delivered
            to, one or more end‑users physically present in Singapore
            through an automated process without the accused
            choosing where the information or material or service is
            communicated or delivered, except as an automatic
            response to the request of a person.

 (7) It is also not a defence to a charge for an offence under this
section that the accused is subject to any duty under any written law,
any rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional conduct, that
prevents the person from complying with this section or restricts the
person in such compliance.

 (8) In this section, an advertising dealing means an arrangement
under which a party to the arrangement agrees to publish, in the
course of business, information or material in exchange for valuable
consideration.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
70  NO. 28 OF 2021

                 Division 4 — Supplementary provisions
                             on Part 3 directions

Content and effect of directions — general

 42.—(1) A Part 3 direction may be given to the person or persons
mentioned respectively for the direction individually or as a class.

 (2) A Part 3 direction is binding on —

       (a) the person to whom it is addressed; and

       (b) if applicable, the personal representatives, successors, and
            assignees of the person to whom it is addressed to the same
            extent as it applies to that person.

 (3) In authorising or giving a Part 3 direction, it is not necessary for
the Minister or a competent authority to give any person who may be
affected by the direction a chance to be heard before the direction is
authorised to be given or given.

 (4) A Part 3 direction must —

       (a) where it relates to information or material, so far as is
            reasonably practicable, identify the information or material
            in a way that is sufficient to enable the person given the
            direction to comply with the direction;

       (b) state whether the person to whom it is given must do all or
            any of the following, whichever being applicable:

               (i) advise the competent authority within a time
                   specified in the direction of the details of the
                   manner in which the person proposes to comply
                   with the direction;

              (ii) keep information about the matters that are the
                   subject of the direction for a time specified in the
                   direction;

             (iii) regularly notify within the times specified in the
                   direction the competent authority about the steps
                   being taken towards compliance with the direction;

             (iv) give written notice to the competent authority when
                   the person has complied with the direction; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         71

       (c) state that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply
            with the direction.

 (5) A Part 3 direction continues in force until the earlier of the
following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the direction is reached;

       (b) the Minister cancels the authorisation containing the
            direction under section 22(1)(a) or 23(3)(a) or the
            direction under subsection (6);

       (c) the direction is cancelled on appeal under Part 8.

 (6) If satisfied that a Part 3 direction has been complied with —

       (a) the Minister must cancel the Part 3 direction; and

       (b) the competent authority must give written notice of the
            cancellation —

               (i) in the same manner in which the Part 3 direction was
                   first given; or

              (ii) if sub‑paragraph (i) is not practicable, in a manner as
                   will secure adequate notice to the person given the
                   direction (or both) for the fact of the cancellation.

 (7) Subsection (6) does not prevent a further Part 3 direction being
authorised to be given in the same terms as a Part 3 direction that has
expired.

Service of Part 3 directions

 43.—(1) A Part 3 direction that is addressed to a person is
sufficiently served if it is —

       (a) delivered personally to the person by a competent
            authority; or

       (b) served in the manner prescribed in section 121 or in any
            other appropriate manner.

 (2) A Part 3 direction that is addressed to a class of persons is
sufficiently served if it is —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
72  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (a) served on each of the persons in the class in accordance
            with subsection (1); or

       (b) published both —

               (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
                   any other news media that, in the opinion of the
                   competent authority, will be most likely to bring the
                   direction to the attention of the persons who belong
                   to the class; and

              (ii) on the competent authority’s official website.

 (3) A Part 3 direction that is addressed to a public authority is
sufficiently served if it is served on the chief executive (however
described) of the public authority in accordance with subsection (1).

 (4) A Part 3 direction that is served —

       (a) in accordance with subsection (1) takes effect when it is
            served;

       (b) in accordance with subsection (2)(a) takes effect when it is
            served on all the persons in the class in question; and

       (c) in accordance with subsection (2)(b) takes effect at the
            beginning of the day after the date on which
            subsection (2)(b) has been complied with.

Publicity regarding non‑compliance with directions

 44.—(1) If the Minister is satisfied that a provider of a social media
service, a relevant electronic service or an internet access service does
not comply with a Part 3 direction, the Minister may direct a
competent authority —

       (a) to prepare a statement to that effect; and

       (b) to publish the statement on the official website of the
            competent authority.

 (2) If —

       (a) a competent authority has prepared a statement under
            subsection (1) in relation to a provider of a social media

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         73

            service, a relevant electronic service or an internet access
            service;

       (b) the statement has been published on the official website of
            the competent authority; and

       (c) the Minister is satisfied that the provider of that service
            complies with that Part 3 direction,

the competent authority must remove the statement from that official
website.

 (3) Statements published under this section are protected by
absolute privilege.

Offence of non‑compliance with directions

 45.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given a Part 3 direction; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the
            direction whether in or outside Singapore.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
involving a stop communication (end‑user) direction, a Class 1
must‑carry direction, a disgorgement direction, or a technical
assistance direction given to a proprietor of an online location,
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            2 years or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
involving a Class 2 or Class 3 must‑carry direction, a remedial must-
carry direction, an account restriction direction, a disabling direction,
or a service restriction direction, or a technical assistance direction
given to a person (except a proprietor of an online location), shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
74  NO. 28 OF 2021

            12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 01/06/2023]

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
involving a Class 4 must‑carry direction shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            4 years or to both; and

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

 (5) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
involving an access blocking direction or app removal direction shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 for every day
or part of a day the person, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with the direction but not exceeding in total $500,000.

 (6) It is not a defence to a charge under subsection (1) that —

       (a) the person is subject to a duty under any written law, any
            rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
            conduct, that prevents the person from complying with any
            part of a direction under this Part or restricts the person in
            such compliance; or

       (b) the person has made an application under section 23 or 26,
            or an appeal under section 92, regarding the authorisation
            in which the giving of the direction is specified.

 (7) Without limiting the meaning of “reasonable excuse”, it is a
defence to a charge under subsection (3) involving any Part 3
direction given to an accused that is one of the following:

       (a) a provider of a social media service;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         75

       (b) a provider of a relevant electronic service;

       (c) a provider of an internet access service with a Singapore
            link;

       (d) a provider of a hosting service;

       (e) a proprietor of an online location;

        (f) a provider of an app distribution service,

if the accused proves, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (g) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
            in fact done to comply with the Part 3 direction; or

       (h) there was no better practicable means than was in fact used
            to comply with the Part 3 direction.

Non‑disclosure of technical assistance directions

 46.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person discloses information without the prior approval
            of the competent authority;

       (b) the person is or was —

               (i) a person to whom a technical assistance direction
                   under this Part is given; or

              (ii) an employee or a contractor of a person to whom a
                   technical assistance direction under this Part is
                   given; and

       (c) the information is —

               (i) information contained in, derived or obtained in
                   accordance with the technical assistance direction; or

              (ii) information about acts done or omissions taking
                   place in accordance with the direction.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
involving a technical assistance direction shall be liable on
conviction —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
76  NO. 28 OF 2021

    (a) where the person is a proprietor of an online location —

           (i) if an individual, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
                imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
                both; or

          (ii) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000;
                or

    (b) in any other case —

           (i) if an individual, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
                imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
                to both; or

          (ii) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million.

                                    PART 4

    DESIGNATING POLITICALLY SIGNIFICANT PERSONS

Designating non‑individual

 47.—(1) The competent authority may designate a relevant entity
to be a Part 4 politically significant entity if —

       (a) the activities of the relevant entity are directed in part
            towards a political end in Singapore within the meaning of
            section 8; and

       (b) in the competent authority’s opinion it is in the public
            interest that countermeasures in Part 5 or 6 ought to be
            applied in relation to that relevant entity.

 (2) In deciding whether a relevant entity should be designated (or
continue to be designated) a Part 4 politically significant entity under
subsection (1), or a relevant entity’s designation as a Part 4 politically
significant entity should be cancelled under subsection (3), the
competent authority must have regard to, and give such weight as the
competent authority considers appropriate to, such matters and
evidence as may be relevant, including the giving of a disgorgement
direction against the person or any associates of the person.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         77

 (3) A designation may be cancelled at any time by the competent
authority in writing; and the competent authority must cause the
giving of notice of the cancellation —

       (a) in the same manner in which the notice of the designation
            order was first given; or

       (b) if paragraph (a) is not practicable, in a manner as will
            secure adequate notice to the person designated of the fact
            of the cancellation.

 (4) The competent authority may exercise the power under
subsection (1) or (3) in relation to a relevant entity —

       (a) on the application of the relevant entity; or

       (b) on the competent authority’s own volition.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (2), an individual or a person (A)
is an associate of a relevant entity if —

       (a) A is a related corporation of the relevant entity;

       (b) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
            an obligation, whether formal or informal, to engage in
            conduct in accordance with the directions, instructions or
            wishes of the directors of the relevant entity;

       (c) the relevant entity is a corporation whose directors are
            accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or
            informal, to engage in conduct in accordance with the
            directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
            corporation, of the directors of A;

       (d) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
            whether formal or informal, to engage in conduct in
            accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
            the directors of the relevant entity;

       (e) the relevant entity is a person who is accustomed or under
            an obligation, whether formal or informal, to engage in
            conduct in accordance with the directions, instructions or
            wishes of A or, where A is a corporation, of the directors of
            A; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
78  NO. 28 OF 2021

        (f) A is related to the relevant entity in such other manner as
            may be prescribed by Regulations.

Designating individual as politically significant person

 48.—(1) The competent authority may designate a relevant
individual to be a politically significant person if —

       (a) any of the following circumstances exists:

               (i) the relevant individual is a member of a foreign
                   legislature or a foreign political organisation;

              (ii) the activities of the relevant individual (whether
                   alone or in collaboration or under any arrangement
                   with another individual) are directed in part towards
                   a political end in Singapore within the meaning of
                   section 8; and

       (b) in the competent authority’s opinion, it is in the public
            interest that countermeasures in Part 5 or 6 ought to be
            applied in relation to that relevant individual.

 (2) In deciding whether a relevant individual should be designated
(or continue to be designated) a politically significant person under
subsection (1), or a relevant individual’s designation as a politically
significant person should be cancelled under subsection (3), the
competent authority must have regard to, and give such weight as the
competent authority considers appropriate to, such matters and
evidence as may be relevant, including the giving of a disgorgement
direction against the individual or any associates of the individual.

 (3) A designation may be cancelled at any time by the competent
authority in writing; and the competent authority must cause the
giving of notice of the cancellation —

       (a) in the same manner in which the notice of the designation
            order was first given; or

       (b) if paragraph (a) is not practicable, in a manner as will
            secure adequate notice to the individual designated of the
            fact of the cancellation.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         79

 (4) The competent authority may exercise the power under
subsection (1) or (3) in relation to a relevant individual —

       (a) on the application of the relevant individual; or

       (b) on the competent authority’s own volition.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (2), an individual or a person (A)
is an associate of a relevant individual if —

       (a) A is a related corporation of the relevant individual;

       (b) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
            an obligation, whether formal or informal, to engage in
            conduct in accordance with the directions, instructions or
            wishes of the relevant individual;

       (c) the relevant person is a corporation whose directors are
            accustomed or under an obligation, whether formal or
            informal, to engage in conduct in accordance with the
            directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
            corporation, of the directors of A;

       (d) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
            whether formal or informal, to engage in conduct in
            accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
            the relevant individual;

       (e) the relevant individual is a person who is accustomed or
            under an obligation, whether formal or informal, to engage
            in conduct in accordance with the directions, instructions
            or wishes of A; or

        (f) A is related to the relevant individual in such other manner
            as may be prescribed by Regulations.

Opportunity to be heard before designation, etc.

 49.—(1) Before the competent authority, on its own volition,
designates a relevant entity or relevant individual under section 47(1)
or 48(1), the competent authority must, unless the competent
authority considers it not practicable or desirable to do so in any
particular case —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
80  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (a) give notice of the competent authority’s intention to do so
            to the entity or individual concerned; and

       (b) give that entity or individual (as the case may be) 14 days
            after the date of the notice (or such longer time as the
            competent authority may specify in the notice) to make
            representations on the proposed designation.

 (2) Once a designation is made under section 47(1) or 48(1), the
competent authority must, without delay, give notice of the
designation as follows:

       (a) to the relevant entity or relevant individual who is
            designated;

       (b) to any other person who, in the competent authority’s
            opinion, ought to have notice of the designation.

 (3) A designation under section 47(1) or 48(1) of a relevant entity or
relevant individual as a politically significant person has effect during
the period —

       (a) starting when notice of the designation is given to the
            person concerned under subsection (2), or at any later time
            specified in the notice of designation where so specified;
            and

       (b) ending when the designation is cancelled under
            section 47(3) or 48(3).

                                    PART 5

        COUNTERMEASURES FOR DONOR ACTIVITIES

                            Division 1 — General

Application according to capacity

 50.—(1) Without limiting section 2, this Part establishes a
transparent system for donations for political purposes by creating
certainty about who is making a political donation and by requiring
the donor to be properly identified.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         81

 (2) To avoid doubt —

       (a) an individual may at any one time be 2 or more of the
            following:

               (i) a candidate;

              (ii) a Member of Parliament;

             (iii) a political office holder,

       (a) and this Part may impose duties or liabilities on the
            individual accordingly;

       (b) this Part may at any one time impose the same duty or
            liability on 2 or more individuals or persons, whether in the
            same capacity or in different capacities; and

       (c) a duty or liability imposed by this Part on any person is not
            diminished or affected by the fact that it is imposed on one
            or more other persons, whether in the same capacity or in
            different capacities.

Meaning of “political donation”

 51.—(1) In this Act, “political donation”, in relation to a candidate
at an election or the election agent of a candidate, means any of the
following which is made to or for the benefit of a candidate (whether
before or after he or she becomes a candidate) with a view to, or
otherwise in connection with, promoting or procuring the candidate’s
election at the election, or prejudicing the electoral prospects of
another candidate at that election:

       (a) any gift of money or other property to the candidate or the
            candidate’s election agent;

       (b) any money spent (otherwise than by the candidate as
            permitted by any other written law) in paying any expenses
            incurred, directly or indirectly, by the candidate or by his or
            her election agent or any person authorised by the
            candidate’s election agent;

       (c) any money lent to the candidate or the candidate’s election
            agent otherwise than on commercial terms;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
82  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (d) the provision otherwise than on commercial terms of any
            property, services or facilities (including the services of
            any person) to the candidate or the candidate’s election
            agent;

       (e) the provision of any sponsorship in relation to the
            candidate;

        (f) any voluntary labour or voluntary professional services
            carried out.

 (2) In this Act, “political donation”, in relation to a political party,
means any of the following made to or for the benefit of the political
party:

       (a) any gift of money or other property to the political party;

       (b) any money spent (otherwise than by the political party or a
            person acting on its behalf) in paying any expenses
            incurred, directly or indirectly, by the political party;

       (c) any money lent to the political party otherwise than on
            commercial terms;

       (d) the provision otherwise than on commercial terms of any
            property, services or facilities for the use or benefit of the
            political party (including the services of any person);

       (e) the provision of any sponsorship in relation to the political
            party;

        (f) any subscription or other fee paid for affiliation to, or
            membership of, the political party;

       (g) any voluntary labour or voluntary professional services
            carried out.

 (3) In this Act, “political donation”, in relation to a politically
significant person who is a political office holder, means —

       (a) any gift of money or other property;

       (b) any money spent (otherwise than by the political office
            holder as permitted by any other written law) in paying any
            expenses incurred, directly or indirectly, by the political
            office holder;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         83

       (c) any money lent to the political office holder otherwise than
            on commercial terms;

       (d) the provision otherwise than on commercial terms of any
            property, services or facilities (including the services of
            any person) to the political office holder;

       (e) the provision of any sponsorship in relation to the political
            office holder; or

        (f) any voluntary labour or voluntary professional services,

made to or carried out for the benefit of the political office holder, the
whole or part of which was lawfully used or is intended to be lawfully
used by the political office holder solely or substantially for a purpose
related to the duties of the political office holder.

 (4) In this Act, “political donation”, in relation to a politically
significant person who is a Member of Parliament (whether or not
also a political office holder), means —

       (a) any gift of money or other property;

       (b) any money spent in paying any expenses incurred, directly
            or indirectly, by the Member of Parliament;

       (c) any money lent to the Member of Parliament otherwise
            than on commercial terms;

       (d) the provision otherwise than on commercial terms of any
            property, services or facilities (including the services of
            any person) to the Member of Parliament;

       (e) the provision of any sponsorship in relation to the Member
            of Parliament; or

        (f) any voluntary labour or voluntary professional services,

made to or carried out for the benefit of the Member of Parliament,
the whole or part of which was lawfully used or is intended to be
lawfully used by the Member of Parliament solely or substantially for
a purpose related to his or her duties as a Member of Parliament.

 (5) In this Act, “political donation”, in relation to a senior political
party official or a Part 4 politically significant person, means —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
84  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (a) any gift of money or other property;

       (b) any money lent to the senior political party official or the
            Part 4 politically significant person otherwise than on
            commercial terms; or

       (c) the provision otherwise than on commercial terms of any
            property, services or facilities (including the services of
            any person),

made to or carried out for the benefit of the senior political party
official or the Part 4 politically significant person, the whole or part of
which was used or is intended to be used by the senior political party
official or the Part 4 politically significant person —

       (d) to enable the person to make, directly or indirectly, a
            political donation to another politically significant person;

       (e) to incur or defray expenditure for undertaking the person’s
            activities directed in whole or in part towards a political
            end in Singapore; or

        (f) to reimburse the person for making a political donation
            mentioned in paragraph (d) or incurring or defraying
            expenditure mentioned in paragraph (e).

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (4), the duties of a Member of
Parliament are his or her activities that relate —

       (a) to the promotion of or opposition to any Bill, resolution,
            matter or thing submitted or intended to be submitted for
            the consideration of Parliament or any committee of
            Parliament;

       (b) to supporting or serving individuals registered as an elector
            for, or resident in, the constituency that the Member of
            Parliament is elected in;

       (c) to his or her party political duties; or

       (d) directly to his or her role as a Member of Parliament,

but do not include the duties of a Member of Parliament as a member
of a Town Council or as a political office holder.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         85

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (3), the duties of a political office
holder are his or her activities that relate —

       (a) to the individual’s role as a holder of that political office; or

       (b) where the political office holder is also a Member of
            Parliament, that relate predominantly to the individual’s
            role as the holder of that political office.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

What is not a political donation

 52.—(1) Despite section 51, the following are not political
donations:

       (a) any lawful transmission by a licensed broadcaster, free of
            charge, of a party political broadcast required under a
            condition of its licence;

       (b) any postage‑free election communications provided to
            candidates pursuant to any written law;

       (c) any grant or subsidy provided by the Government or a
            public authority to a politically significant person for the
            benefit of that person in his or her personal capacity;

       (d) the provision by an individual who is a citizen of Singapore
            of —

               (i) the individual’s own services; or

              (ii) the incidental or ancillary use of vehicles or
                   equipment under the individual’s control,

       (d) which the individual provides voluntarily and free of
            charge (even if they fall within the course of his or her
            normal work);

       (e) any interest accruing to a politically significant person in
            respect of any political donation which is dealt with by the
            politically significant person (as the case may be) in
            accordance with section 60(2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
86  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (2) In the case of a candidate, the following are also not donations:

       (a) any money or other property, or any services or facilities,
            provided out of public moneys for the personal security of
            the candidate;

       (b) where the candidate is a political office holder, any
            remuneration or allowances paid to the candidate in his
            or her capacity as such.

 (3) In the case of a Member of Parliament or a political office
holder, the following are also not donations:

       (a) any money or other property, or any services or facilities,
            provided out of public moneys for the personal security of
            the Member of Parliament or a political office holder;

       (b) any remuneration or allowances paid to the Member of
            Parliament or a political office holder in his or her capacity
            as such;

       (c) any gift given to the Member of Parliament or a political
            office holder in his or her capacity as such, in the course of
            a visit or an event hosted by a foreign State and which is
            immediately surrendered to the Government.

 (4) In subsection (1), a licensed broadcaster is a person who is
licensed under the Broadcasting Act 1994 to provide broadcasting
services.

Meaning of “reportable political donation”

 53.—(1) In this Act, a “reportable political donation” is —

       (a) in the case of disclosure under section 62 by a politically
            significant person — a political donation of or exceeding
            $10,000 (or a higher amount prescribed by Regulations in
            substitution) made to or for the benefit of that politically
            significant person; or

       (b) in the case of disclosure under section 70 by a major
            political donor — a political donation of or exceeding
            $10,000 (or a higher amount prescribed by Regulations in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         87

            substitution) made to or for the benefit of a politically
            significant person.

 (2) A political donation of less than an amount specified in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) made by a person (called a donor) to a
politically significant person must be treated as a reportable political
donation of the politically significant person if —

       (a) that political donation made by the donor in a reporting
            period to the politically significant person; and

       (b) another earlier, separate political donation made by that
            donor to the same politically significant person within the
            same reporting period,

would, if aggregated, constitute a reportable political donation under
subsection (1)(a) or (b), as the case may be.

When is political donation accepted

 54.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a political donation is
accepted —

       (a) by a candidate if it is received and retained by the
            candidate, or his or her election agent, for the purposes of
            the candidate’s election;

       (b) by an election agent of a candidate if it is received and
            retained by the election agent for the purposes of the
            candidate’s election; or

       (c) by any other politically significant person if it is received
            and retained by the politically significant person for the use
            and benefit of the politically significant person.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a political donation received by a
politically significant person is treated as having been accepted by the
person unless —

       (a) the steps referred to in section 60(2)(a) or (b), whichever is
            applicable, have been taken within the time limited by that
            section; and

       (b) a record can be produced of the receipt of the donation
            and —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
88  NO. 28 OF 2021

               (i) of the required steps being taken in relation to the
                   donation as mentioned in section 60(2)(a); or

              (ii) of the return of the donation, or the equivalent
                   amount, as mentioned in section 60(2)(b).

 (3) Without limiting section 15, for the purposes of this Act,
anything given or transferred to —

       (a) any branch of a political party or Part 4 politically
            significant entity; or

       (b) any officer, member or agent of a political party or a Part 4
            politically significant entity in his or her capacity as such
            (and not for his or her political activities or his or her own
            use or benefit),

must be regarded as given or transferred to that political party or
Part 4 politically significant entity (as the case may be), and
references to donations received by a political party or Part 4
politically significant entity accordingly include references to
donations so given or transferred.

Other definitions for Part 5

 55.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “early initial election” means the first election after the date this
         Part comes into force where the writ for the election is issued
         not more than 12 months after that date;

      “permissible donor” means —

              (a) an individual who is a citizen of Singapore and is at
                   least 21 years of age;

              (b) in relation to a donation in the form of a bequest, an
                   individual who was, at death, a citizen of Singapore
                   and at least 21 years of age;

              (c) a Singapore entity which carries on business wholly
                   or mainly in Singapore and is not prohibited by
                   written law or its own constitution from donating or
                   contributing for a purpose that is directed towards a
                   political end in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         89

        (d) in relation to a donation in the form of voluntary
             labour, an individual who is a citizen of Singapore
             when performing that labour;

        (e) in relation to a candidate, the political party the
             candidate is standing for at an election; or

        (f) in relation to a political party, a candidate at an
             election who stands or who stood for that party;

“post‑election period”, for an election, means a period —

        (a) starting —

               (i) the date the declaration is made by the
                    candidate under section 65 before nomination
                    day at that election; or

               (ii) the date which is 2 clear days before
                    nomination day at that election if no
                    declaration mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) is
                    earlier made; and

        (b) ending on (and including) the 31st day after the
             results of the election are published;

“pre‑election period”, for an election, means a period of
   12 months preceding —

        (a) the date a declaration is made by the candidate under
             section 65 before nomination day at that election; or

        (b) a date which is 2 clear days before nomination day at
             that election if no declaration mentioned in
             paragraph (a) is earlier made;

“provision of sponsorship”, in relation to a candidate, political
   party, Member of Parliament or political office holder, means
   the transfer of any money or other property to the candidate,
   political party, Member of Parliament or political office
   holder —

        (a) for the benefit of the candidate, political party,
             Member of Parliament or political office holder (as
             the case may be); and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
90  NO. 28 OF 2021

            (b) the purpose (or one of the purposes) of the transfer is,
                 or must, having regard to all the circumstances,
                 reasonably be assumed to be —

                   (i) to help the candidate, political party, Member
                        of Parliament or political office holder (as the
                        case may be) with meeting, or to meet, to any
                        extent any prescribed expenses incurred or to
                        be incurred by or on behalf of the candidate,
                        political party, Member of Parliament or
                        political office holder; or

                   (ii) to secure that to any extent the prescribed
                        expenses in sub‑paragraph (i) are not so
                        incurred;

    “Singapore entity” means —

            (a) a Singapore‑controlled corporation;

            (b) a Singapore‑controlled partnership; or

            (c) a Singapore‑controlled unincorporated association;

    “Singapore‑controlled corporation” means a company
       incorporated in Singapore, the majority of whose directors
       and members are citizens of Singapore or, in the case of any
       member being another company, where that other company is
       incorporated in Singapore and the majority of whose
       directors and members are citizens of Singapore, and
       where that other company has a member who is a company
       which in turn has a member who is a company and so on,
       where each of those member companies is incorporated in
       Singapore and the majority of whose directors and members
       are citizens of Singapore;

    “Singapore‑controlled partnership” means —

            (a) a firm registered under the Business Names
                 Registration Act 2014 in Singapore, the majority of
                 whose partners are citizens of Singapore or one or
                 more Singapore entities; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         91

              (b) a limited partnership registered under the Limited
                   Partnerships Act 2008 in Singapore;

      “Singapore‑controlled unincorporated association” means an
         unincorporated association that —

              (a) is formed in Singapore under any written law;

              (b) has an executive committee, the majority of whose
                   members are citizens of Singapore; and

              (c) has a majority of members who are citizens of
                   Singapore or Singapore entities.

 (2) Where a political donation is made to any politically significant
person by paying an amount into any account held by the politically
significant person with a financial institution, then for the purposes of
this Part, the political donation must be treated as having been
received by the politically significant person at the time when the
person is notified by the financial institution in the usual way of the
payment into the account.

 (3) Where a political donation confers an enduring benefit on any
politically significant person during the whole or part of a relevant
reporting period, the amount that must be recorded in any donation
report required to be prepared under this Part is so much of the total
value of the political donation (as determined in accordance with
section 15) as accrues during the whole or part of that relevant
reporting period to which the donation report relates.

     Division 2 — Restrictions on accepting political donations

Political donations from impermissible donors, etc.

 56. Subject to this Act, a politically significant person must not
accept any political donation if it is offered by a person (called in this
section the donor) who, at the time of its acceptance by the politically
significant person, the politically significant person knows —

       (a) in the case of any politically significant person who is not a
            Part 4 politically significant person, is not a permissible
            donor; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
92  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) in the case of a Part 4 politically significant person, is a
            prohibited donor in relation to the Part 4 politically
            significant person because of a prohibited donor directive.

Anonymous donations

 57. Subject to this Act, each of the following politically significant
persons must not accept any political donation that is an anonymous
donation:

       (a) a politically significant person excluding a Part 4
            politically significant person;

       (b) a Part 4 politically significant person who is given an
            anonymous donations directive.

Applicable cap on anonymous political donations

 58.—(1) Despite section 57, a politically significant person may
accept —

       (a) during the initial relevant period for that politically
            significant person; and

       (b) during each subsequent relevant period for that politically
            significant person,

anonymous political donations which in total are less than the
applicable cap on anonymous political donations for that politically
significant person.

 (2) The applicable cap on anonymous political donations is as
follows:

       (a) in the case of a political party, candidate or an election
            agent — $5,000 (or a higher amount prescribed by
            Regulations in substitution);

       (b) in the case of a political office holder — $5,000 (or a
            higher amount prescribed by Regulations in substitution);

       (c) in the case of a Member of Parliament who is not a political
            office holder — $5,000 (or a higher amount prescribed by
            Regulations in substitution);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         93

      (d) in the case of a Part 4 politically significant person given an
           anonymous donations directive — $5,000 (or a higher
           amount prescribed by Regulations in substitution).

(3) In this section —

    “appointed day” means the date of commencement of this
        section;

    “initial relevant period”, for a politically significant person,
        means —

            (a) for a candidate at an early initial election or such a
                 candidate’s election agent, the period —

                    (i) starting on a date 12 months preceding —

                          (A) the date a declaration is made by the
                               candidate under section 65 before
                               nomination day at that early initial
                               election; or

                          (B) a date which is 2 clear days before
                               nomination day at that early initial
                               election if no declaration mentioned in
                               sub‑paragraph (A) is earlier made; and

                   (ii) ending on (and including) the last day of the
                        post‑election period of the early initial election,

            (a) even though this section may not have been in force
                 during any part of the period;

            (b) for a candidate at the first election after the appointed
                 day (other than an early initial election) or such a
                 candidate’s election agent, the period —

                    (i) starting on a date 12 months preceding —

                          (A) the date a declaration is made by the
                               candidate under section 65 before
                               nomination day at that election; or

                          (B) a date which is 2 clear days before
                               nomination day at that election if no

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
94  NO. 28 OF 2021

    declaration                  mentioned                    in

    sub‑paragraph (A) is earlier made; and

    (ii) ending on (and including) the last day of the
         post‑election period of that election;

    (c) for a political party —

    (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
        ending on (and including) 31 December of the
        same year the appointed day falls; or

    (ii) the period starting on the day the political party
         is constituted on or after the appointed day, and
         ending on (and including) 31 December of the
         same year in which the period starts;

    (d) for a political office holder, a senior political party
         official or a Member of Parliament (whether or not a
         political office holder) —

    (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
        ending on (and including) 31 December of the
        same year the appointed day falls; or

    (ii) the period starting on the day the person first
         becomes a political office holder, a senior
         political party official or a Member of
         Parliament (as the case may be) on or after
         the appointed day, and ending on (and
         including) 31 December of the same year in
         which the period starts;

                                                      [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

    (e) for a Part 4 politically significant entity —

    (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
        ending on (and including) 31 December of the
        same year the appointed day falls; or

    (ii) the period starting on the day the entity first
         becomes a politically significant entity on or
         after the appointed day, and ending on (and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         95

                          including) 31 December of the same year in
                          which the period starts; or

              (f) for an individual who is designated under
                   section 48(1) as a politically significant person —

                     (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
                          ending on (and including) 31 December of the
                          same year the appointed day falls; or

                     (ii) the period starting on the day the person is first
                          designated a politically significant person on or
                          after the appointed day, and ending on (and
                          including) 31 December of the same year in
                          which the period starts;

      “relevant period” means —

              (a) for a candidate at an election or such a candidate’s
                   election agent, the period —

                     (i) starting on the first day of the pre‑election
                          period of the election; and

                     (ii) ending on (and including) the last day of the
                          post‑election period of the election; or

              (b) for any other politically significant person, the period
                   of 12 months starting 1 January and ending
                   31 December in any year,

         and includes an initial relevant period.

Return of anonymous political donations

 59.—(1) Subject to this Act, where an anonymous political
donation is offered to a politically significant person, and
sections 56 and 57 prohibit the politically significant person from
accepting (whether wholly or in part) that donation, the following
requirements must be complied with:

       (a) if the donation was transmitted by a person (other than the
            donor) and the identity of that person is apparent, the whole
            donation must be returned to that person;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
96  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) if paragraph (a) does not apply but it is apparent that the
            donor has, in connection with the donation, used any
            facility provided by an identifiable financial institution, the
            whole donation must be returned to that financial
            institution;

       (c) in all other cases, the whole donation must be sent to the
            competent authority.

 (2) Any amount collected by the competent authority under
subsection (1)(c) must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Return of political donations

 60.—(1) Where a political donation is received by a politically
significant person and it is not immediately decided that the
politically significant person should (for whatever reason) refuse
the political donation, all reasonable steps must be taken without
delay by or on behalf of the politically significant person to verify or,
so far as the following is not apparent, ascertain —

       (a) the identity of the donor;

       (b) whether the donor is —

               (i) a permissible donor; or

              (ii) a prohibited donor in relation to the politically
                   significant person; and

       (c) if the donor is a permissible donor and not a prohibited
            donor, all such details in respect of the donor as are
            required by the Regulations to be given in respect of a
            donor of a reportable political donation.

 (2) If a politically significant person receives a donation which the
politically significant person is prohibited from accepting by virtue of
section 56, 57 or 58, or which the politically significant person has
decided the politically significant person should for any reason
refuse, then within the grace period —

       (a) in the case of an anonymous political donation, the
            requirements of section 59 must be complied with in
            respect of the whole donation; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         97

       (b) in any other case, the political donation must be sent back,
            or a payment of an equivalent amount must be sent, to —

               (i) the person who made the donation; or

              (ii) any other person appearing to be acting on behalf of
                   the person in sub‑paragraph (i).

 (3) In subsection (2), the “grace period”, in relation to a politically
significant person who or which has received a political donation,
means a period of 30 days starting the date when the donation is so
received by the politically significant person.

 (4) If —

       (a) a politically significant person receives a donation which
            the politically significant person is prohibited from
            accepting by virtue of section 56, 57 or 58;

       (b) at the end of the grace period applicable to that donation,
            subsection (2)(a) and (b) is not complied with; and

       (c) the politically significant person knows or is reckless as to
            whether the politically significant person is prohibited
            from accepting the donation by virtue of section 56, 57 or
            58,

then the following applies:

       (d) in the case of a donation accepted by a political party or
            Part 4 politically significant entity —

               (i) the political party and the responsible officers of the
                   political party in question; or

              (ii) the Part 4 politically significant entity and the
                   responsible officers of the Part 4 politically
                   significant entity,

       (d) (whichever is applicable) shall each be guilty of an offence
            and shall each be liable on conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
98  NO. 28 OF 2021

            every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after conviction;

       (e) in the case of a donation accepted in respect of a candidate
            at an election —

               (i) the candidate and the candidate’s election agent in
                   question; or

              (ii) the candidate at a presidential election and the
                   candidate’s principal election agent in question,

       (e) (whichever is applicable) shall each be guilty of an offence
            and shall each be liable on conviction to a fine not
            exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for
            every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after conviction;

        (f) in any other case, the politically significant person shall be
            guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
            fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term
            not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a
            continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for
            every day or part of a day during which the offence
            continues after conviction.

 (5) In determining whether a Member of Parliament (whether or not
a political office holder) commits an offence under subsection (4), the
donor’s motive for offering the political donation is irrelevant.

 (6) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect section 35(2) of the
Parliament (Privileges, Immunities and Powers) Act 1962 and
section 11(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1960.

Forfeiture of prohibited political donations, etc.

 61.—(1) Where —

       (a) any donation is made to a politically significant person;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         99

       (b) the donation is one which the politically significant person
            is prohibited from accepting by virtue of section 56, 57 or
            58; and

       (c) the politically significant person has accepted the donation,

the Public Prosecutor may apply to a District Court for an order of
forfeiture by the politically significant person of an amount equal to
the value of the donation.

 (2) Where, on an application by the Public Prosecutor under
subsection (1), the District Court makes an order of forfeiture or
refuses the application, the politically significant person concerned or
the Public Prosecutor (as the case may be) may, before the end of the
period of 30 days starting the date of the order or refusal to order,
appeal to the Appellate Division of the High Court.

 (3) An appeal under subsection (2) must be by way of a rehearing;
and the Appellate Division of the High Court hearing the appeal may
make such order as it considers appropriate.

 (4) The standard of proof in proceedings under this section is that
applicable to civil proceedings.

 (5) An order may be made under this section whether or not
proceedings are brought against any person for an offence connected
with the donation.

 (6) Any amount forfeited by an order under this section must be
paid into the Consolidated Fund.

 (7) Where an appeal is made under subsection (2), subsection (6)
does not apply before the appeal is determined or otherwise disposed
of.

 (8) Where any amount forfeited by an order of the District Court
under subsection (1) or an order of the Appellate Division of the High
Court under subsection (3) where there is an appeal, is not paid in
compliance with the terms of the order, the District Court or
Appellate Division of the High Court (as the case may be) may, on the
application of the Public Prosecutor, issue a warrant for the levy of
the amount forfeited against any property belonging to the politically
significant person concerned.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
100  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (9) Such a warrant may be executed in the same manner as a
warrant for the levy of the amount of a fine under
section 319(1)(b)(iii) of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

 (10) Where any amount recovered under any warrant issued under
subsection (8) is in excess of the amount forfeited under this section,
the balance must be returned to the politically significant person
concerned.

 (11) Without limiting the Supreme Court of Judicature Act 1969
and any other written law conferring power on the Rules Committee
constituted under section 80(3) of that Act, the Rules Committee may
make Rules of Court —

       (a) with respect to applications or appeals to any court under
            this section;

       (b) for the giving of notice of such applications or appeals to
            persons affected; and

       (c) generally with respect to the procedure of proceedings
            under this section before any court.

                 Division 3 — Reporting and accounting
                            of political donations

Disclosing reportable political donations

 62.—(1) Subject to this Act, every reportable political donation
received and accepted during each reporting period by or on behalf of
any politically significant person must be disclosed to a competent
authority in accordance with this Division.

 (2) Disclosure to a competent authority of reportable political
donations received and accepted during a reporting period by or on
behalf of a politically significant person must be in a donation report
relating to the reporting period that —

       (a) is in the form required by the competent authority;

       (b) is given to the competent authority within the time
            delimited by section 63 and in the manner prescribed in
            Regulations or, subject to those Regulations, as approved
            by the competent authority;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         101

      (c) contains the prescribed details of every reportable political
           donation received and accepted during the reporting period
           by or on behalf of the politically significant person, and the
           prescribed particulars of each donor;

      (d) is signed by the person who is required by section 64 to be
           responsible for the disclosure of reportable political
           donations received and accepted by or on behalf of the
           politically significant person; and

      (e) is accompanied by a declaration in section 65 made by the
           person who is required by section 64 to be responsible for
           the disclosure of reportable political donations received
           and accepted by or on behalf of the politically significant
           person.

(3) In this section —

    “appointed day” means the date of commencement of this
        section;

    “initial pre‑election period”, for a candidate at the first election
        after the appointed day or such a candidate’s election agent,
        means —

            (a) in the case of an early initial election, the period of
                 12 months preceding —

                    (i) the date a declaration is made by the candidate
                        under section 65 before nomination day at that
                        early initial election; or

                   (ii) the day which is 2 clear days before nomination
                        day at that early initial election if no declaration
                        mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i) is earlier made,

            (a) even though this section may not have been in force
                 during any part of the period; or

            (b) the period of 12 months preceding —

                    (i) the date a declaration is made by the candidate
                        under section 65 before nomination day at that
                        election; or

                                                                               [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
102  NO. 28 OF 2021

                    (ii) the day which is 2 clear days before nomination
                         day at that election if no declaration mentioned
                         in sub‑paragraph (i) is earlier made;

                                                                             [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

     “initial reporting period”, for a politically significant person,
        means —

             (a) for a candidate at the first election after the appointed
                  day or such a candidate’s election agent, the
                  following:

                    (i) the initial pre‑election period of the election;

                    (ii) the post‑election period of that election;

             (b) for a candidate at an election other than an election in
                  paragraph (a) or such a candidate’s election agent, the
                  following:

                    (i) the pre‑election period of the election;

                    (ii) the post‑election period of that election;

                                                                             [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

             (c) for a political party —

                    (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
                         ending on (and including) 31 December of the
                         same year the appointed day falls; or

                    (ii) the period starting on the day the political party
                         is constituted on or after the appointed day, and
                         ending on (and including) 31 December of the
                         year in which the period starts;

             (d) for a political office holder, a senior political party
                  official or a Member of Parliament (whether or not a
                  political office holder) —

                    (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
                         ending on (and including) 31 December of the
                         same year the appointed day falls; or

                    (ii) the period starting on the day the person first
                         becomes a politically significant person on or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         103

                    after the appointed day, and ending on (and
                    including) 31 December of the year in which
                    the period starts;

        (e) for a Part 4 politically significant entity —

               (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
                    ending on (and including) 31 December of the
                    same year the appointed day falls; or

               (ii) the period starting on the day the entity first
                    becomes a politically significant entity on or
                    after the appointed day, and ending on (and
                    including) 31 December of the year in which
                    the period starts; or

        (f) for an individual who is designated under
             section 48(1) as a politically significant person —

               (i) the period starting on the appointed day and
                    ending on (and including) 31 December of the
                    same year the appointed day falls; or

               (ii) the period starting on the day the person is first
                    designated a politically significant person on or
                    after the appointed day, and ending on (and
                    including) 31 December of the same year in
                    which the period starts;

“reporting period” means —

        (a) for a candidate at an election or such a candidate’s
             election agent, the following periods:

               (i) the pre‑election period of the election;

               (ii) the post‑election period of the election; or

        (b) for any other politically significant person, the period
             of 12 months starting 1 January and ending
             31 December in any year,

   and includes an initial reporting period.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
104  NO. 28 OF 2021

When disclosure of reportable political donations to be made

 63.—(1) Subject to this Act, disclosure of reportable political
donations received and accepted by or on behalf of a politically
significant person must be given to a competent authority as follows:

       (a) for a disclosure of reportable political donations received
            and accepted during the pre‑election period for that
            election, no later than 2 clear days before nomination
            day of that election;

       (b) for a disclosure of reportable political donations received
            and accepted during the post‑election period for that
            election, no later than the 31st day after the results of the
            election are published;

       (c) for a disclosure of reportable political donations received
            and accepted by a politically significant person within a
            year, no later than 31 January in the following year;

       (d) otherwise, no later than 31 January in the year following
            the year in which the political donation was received.

 (2) Regulations may prescribe a longer period for the purposes of
subsection (1)(c) or (d).

 (3) Upon receiving a donation report and declaration in compliance
with the requirements of subsection (1) from a candidate at an
election in relation to a pre‑election period for the election, the
competent authority must issue to the candidate concerned, not later
than the eve of the nomination day at the election, a political donation
certificate stating that the candidate has complied with subsection (1).

 (4) A political donation certificate issued under subsection (3) is,
for the purposes of any written law, conclusive as to the facts it
certifies.

Who is responsible for disclosing reportable political donations

 64. Subject to this Act, the person who is responsible for making a
disclosure of reportable political donations as required by section 62
is —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         105

       (a) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            a political party — every responsible officer of the political
            party;

       (b) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            or on behalf of a candidate at an election — an election
            agent of the candidate;

       (c) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            or on behalf of an election agent of a candidate — the
            election agent;

       (d) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            or on behalf of a political office holder who is not a
            Member of Parliament — the political office holder;

       (e) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            or on behalf of a Member of Parliament (whether or not a
            political office holder) — the Member of Parliament;

        (f) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            or on behalf of a Part 4 politically significant entity —
            every responsible officer of the Part 4 politically
            significant entity; or

       (g) for reportable political donations received and accepted by
            or on behalf of an individual who is a senior political party
            official or is designated under section 48(1) as a politically
            significant person — that individual.

Accompanying declaration to donation report

 65.—(1) Subject to this Act, every donation report required by
section 62 in relation to a politically significant person must be
accompanied by a declaration —

       (a) made by every person who is, under section 64, responsible
            for making disclosure of reportable political donations
            received and accepted by the politically significant person
            in the reporting period to which the donation report relates;
            and

       (b) containing the statements described in subsection (2)
            or (3).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
106  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (2) The declaration which must accompany a donation report for a
Part 4 politically significant person must contain a statement stating,
to the best of the knowledge and belief of every person who is, under
section 64, responsible for making disclosure of reportable political
donations for the Part 4 politically significant person —

       (a) if no prohibited donor directive, anonymous donations
            directive or political donations fund directive has been
            given under section 67, 68 or 69 for the reporting period to
            which the report relates, that during that reporting period
            no other reportable political donations have been accepted
            by the Part 4 politically significant person;

       (b) if a prohibited donor directive has been given for the
            reporting period to which the report relates, that during that
            reporting period —

               (i) no political donation from a prohibited donor in
                   relation to the Part 4 politically significant entity has
                   been so accepted by the Part 4 politically significant
                   person; and

              (ii) no other reportable political donations have been
                   accepted by the Part 4 politically significant person;

       (c) if an anonymous donations directive has been given for the
            reporting period to which the report relates, that during that
            reporting period —

               (i) no anonymous political donation in excess of the
                   applicable cap on anonymous political donations in
                   section 58(2)(d) has been accepted by the Part 4
                   politically significant person; and

              (ii) no other reportable political donations have been
                   accepted by the Part 4 politically significant person;
                   or

       (d) if a political donations fund directive has been given for the
            reporting period to which the report relates, that during that
            reporting period —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         107

               (i) all political donations in cash which are accepted by
                   the Part 4 politically significant person during the
                   reporting period to which the donation report relates
                   have been paid into a political donations fund; and

              (ii) no other reportable political donations have been
                   accepted by that Part 4 politically significant person.

 (3) The declaration which must accompany a donation report for
any other politically significant person must contain a statement
stating, to the best of the knowledge and belief of every person who
is, under section 64, responsible for making disclosure of reportable
political donations for the politically significant person, that —

       (a) all political donations recorded in the donation report as
            having been accepted by the politically significant person
            in the reporting period to which the donation report relates
            are from permissible donors;

       (b) all political donations in cash which are accepted by the
            politically significant person during the reporting period to
            which the donation report relates have been paid into a
            political donations fund; and

       (c) during the reporting period to which the donation report
            relates —

               (i) no other reportable political donations have been
                   accepted by the politically significant person;

              (ii) no anonymous political donation in excess of the
                   applicable cap on anonymous political donations has
                   been accepted by the politically significant person;
                   and

             (iii) no political donation from a donor who is not a
                   permissible donor has been so accepted by the
                   politically significant person.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
108  NO. 28 OF 2021

Separate accounts for political donations (political donations
fund)

 66.—(1) Subject to this Act, a politically significant person who
is —

       (a) a political party;

       (b) a candidate;

       (c) an election agent of a candidate;

       (d) a political office holder;

       (e) a Member of Parliament (whether or not a political office
            holder);

        (f) a senior political party official of a political party; or

       (g) a Part 4 politically significant person given a political
            donations fund directive,

must each establish and maintain, with an authorised deposit‑taking
institution in an account denominated in Singapore dollars, and in
accordance with the Regulations, a political donations fund, until any
terminal event mentioned in subsection (4) first happens.

 (2) If a politically significant person mentioned in subsection (1)
holds more than one capacity at the same time, a separate political
donations fund need not be established and maintained for each
capacity.

 (3) A politically significant person mentioned in subsection (1)
must pay the following moneys into its political donations fund, and
no other moneys:

       (a) all moneys received by it as political donations on or after
            the date of commencement of this section;

       (b) the proceeds of the investment or disposal of any political
            donation of property that is acquired (whether before, on or
            after that date) as an asset of the account of the politically
            significant person.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         109

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (1), a terminal event —

       (a) means the date the person ceases to be a politically
            significant person; and

       (b) in the case of a Part 4 politically significant person,
            includes the date where the political donations fund
            directive given to the Part 4 politically significant person
            ceases to have effect in relation to that politically
            significant person.

 (5) Upon the happening of a terminal event, the politically
significant person’s political donation fund or funds may be closed
without further approval from the competent authority.

 (6) A politically significant person commits an offence if the
person, without reasonable excuse, contravenes subsection (1) or (3).

 (7) A politically significant person who is guilty of an offence for
contravening subsection (1) or (3) shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

               Division 4 — Stepped up countermeasures
                for Part 4 politically significant persons

Prohibited donor directive

 67.—(1) A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant person requiring the Part 4 politically
significant person to do all or any of the following:

       (a) to not accept any political donation from a citizen of
            Singapore who is below 21 years of age;

       (b) to not accept any political donation from a foreign
            individual, foreign business, foreign political
            organisation or foreign public enterprise specified in the
            directive;

       (c) to return any political donation received, on or after a date
            specified in the directive from a foreign individual, foreign

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
110  NO. 28 OF 2021

            business, foreign political organisation or foreign public
            enterprise specified in the directive.

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

 (2) A foreign individual, foreign business, foreign political
organisation or foreign public enterprise which is specified in a
directive given under this section to a Part 4 politically significant
person is, for the purposes of this Act, a prohibited donor in relation to
that Part 4 politically significant person.

 (3) A directive under this section may specify the manner in which,
and must specify the period within which, the political donations
concerned must be returned.

Anonymous donations directive

 68. A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant person to require the Part 4 politically
significant person to not accept any anonymous donation in excess
of the applicable cap for anonymous donations mentioned in
section 58(2)(d).

Political donations fund directive

 69.—(1) A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant person to require the Part 4 politically
significant person to establish and maintain, in accordance with
section 66, a political donations fund for all political donations the
Part 4 politically significant person receives or accepts or both, on or
after a date specified in the directive.

 (2) A directive under this section may specify the manner in which,
and must specify the period within which, the political donations fund
concerned must be established and maintained.

                     Division 5 — Donor obligations

Major political donor reporting

 70.—(1) Subject to this Act, a person (not being a politically
significant person) who in any single year makes one or more
political donations —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         111

       (a) all of which are accepted by or on behalf of any one of the
            following:

               (i) a political party;

              (ii) a Part 4 politically significant person given a
                   prohibited donor directive; and

       (b) the total value of which is not less than the threshold
            reporting value,

must disclose the donations to a competent authority in accordance
with this section.

 (2) Disclosure to a competent authority of political donations made
in a single year and accepted by or on behalf of a politically
significant person mentioned in subsection (1) must be in a major
political donor’s donation report relating to the year that —

       (a) is in the form required by the competent authority;

       (b) is given to the competent authority —

               (i) no later than 31 January of the year following that in
                   which the donations were made; and

              (ii) in the manner prescribed in Regulations or, subject to
                   those Regulations, as approved by the competent
                   authority;

       (c) contains the following particulars:

               (i) the total value of the political donations, the year in
                   which and date when they were made;

              (ii) the name of the politically significant person to
                   which they were made;

             (iii) the full name and address of the donor and such other
                   details in respect of the donor as are required by the
                   Regulations to be given in respect of a major political
                   donor;

       (d) is signed by the donor; and

       (e) is accompanied by a declaration in subsection (3).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
112  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (3) Subject to this Act, every major political donor’s donation
report required by subsection (1) must be accompanied by a
declaration —

       (a) made by the major political donor concerned or, in the case
            of a major political donor that is not an individual, on
            behalf of the major political donor by —

               (i) the individuals for the time being holding the offices
                   of chairperson, managing director and company
                   secretary, respectively, of the body corporate, or
                   any positions analogous to those offices; or

              (ii) the individuals for the time being holding the offices
                   of president, secretary and treasurer, respectively, of
                   the committee of an unincorporated association, or
                   any positions analogous to those offices; and

       (b) containing a statement that, to the best of the knowledge
            and belief of the major political donor or every person in
            paragraph (a)(i) or (ii) (as the case may be) —

               (i) political donations whose total value was that
                   specified in the report were made by the major
                   political donor to the specified politically significant
                   person during the specified year; and

              (ii) no other political donations were made by the major
                   political donor to that politically significant person
                   during that same year.

 (4) The threshold reporting value for the purposes of
subsection (1)(b) is $10,000, or a higher amount prescribed by
Regulations in substitution.

 (5) A major political donor who —

       (a) gives the competent authority a major political donor’s
            donation report required by subsection (1) which does not
            comply with subsection (2)(a), (c), (d) or (e);

       (b) fails to give the competent authority such donation report
            in accordance with subsection (2)(b); or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         113

       (c) knowingly or recklessly makes a false declaration under
            subsection (3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Directive affecting major donors

 71.—(1) A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant entity declaring that section 70 applies to
donors making political donations to that Part 4 politically significant
entity.

 (2) In addition to sections 89 and 116, once a directive is made
under this section and before the date it comes into effect, the
competent authority must publish a notice of the making of the
declaration in the Gazette and in such other manner as will secure
adequate publicity for the fact of making of the declaration, stating —

       (a) that a directive has been made under this section; and

       (b) the name of the Part 4 politically significant entity to which
            the directive relates, and when the directive takes effect.

Duty when donating on behalf of others

 72.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, where any person (called in
this section the principal donor) causes an amount (called in this
section the principal donation) to be received by a politically
significant person by way of a political donation —

       (a) on behalf of the principal donor and one or more other
            persons; or

       (b) on behalf of one or more other persons,

then each individual contribution by each person mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b) is taken to be a separate donation by that person.

 (2) In relation to each such separate donation, the principal donor
must ensure that, at the time when the principal donation is received
by the politically significant person, the politically significant person

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
114  NO. 28 OF 2021

is given all such details in respect of the person treated by
subsection (1) as giving the donation as is required by the
Regulations to be given in respect of a donor of a reportable
political donation.

 (3) Where a person (called in this subsection the agent) causes an
amount to be received by a politically significant person by way of a
donation on behalf of another person (called in this subsection the
donor), the agent must ensure that, at the time the amount is received
by the politically significant person, the politically significant person
is given all such details in respect of the donor as are required by the
Regulations to be given in respect of a donor of a reportable political
donation.

 (4) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (2) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

                           Division 6 — Offences

Late donation reports, etc.

 73.—(1) Where any donation report or declaration which is
required by section 62 or 65 to be given to the competent authority
is not given within the time delimited under section 63, then the
following persons shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of
a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction:

       (a) where the donation report or declaration is required in
            respect of a political party or a Part 4 politically significant
            entity — the responsible officers of the political party or
            Part 4 politically significant entity in question;

       (b) where the donation report or declaration is required in
            respect of a candidate at an election or the candidate’s
            election agent — the candidate and the candidate’s election
            agent in question or (as the case may be) the candidate at a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         115

            presidential election and the candidate’s principal election
            agent in question;

       (c) where the donation report or declaration is required in
            respect of any other politically significant person who is
            not mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) — that person.

 (2) If a donation report which is required by section 62 to be given
to the competent authority is given to the competent authority, but the
donation report does not comply with the requirements of
section 62(2)(c) as regards the recording of reportable political
donations in the report, then the following persons shall each be
guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding $500 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction:

       (a) where the donation report is required in respect of a
            political party or Part 4 politically significant entity — the
            responsible officers of the political party or Part 4
            politically significant entity in question;

       (b) where the donation report is required in respect of a
            candidate at an election or the candidate’s election agent —
            the candidate and the candidate’s election agent in question
            or (as the case may be) the candidate at a presidential
            election and the candidate’s principal election agent in
            question;

       (c) where the donation report is required in respect of a
            politically significant person not mentioned in
            paragraphs (a) and (b) — that politically significant
            person.

 (3) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) or (2), it is a
defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that the accused took all reasonable steps, and exercised
all due diligence to ensure that any requirements —

       (a) as regards preparation or sending of a donation report or
            declaration; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
116  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) as regards the information to be given in any donation
            report or declaration,

as the case may be, have been complied with in relation to the
donation report or declaration.

 (4) Where the court is satisfied, on an application made by the
Public Prosecutor, that any failure to comply with any such
requirements in relation to any political donation received by a
politically significant person was attributable to an intention on the
part of any person to conceal the existence or true amount of the
political donation, the court may order the forfeiture of an amount
equal to the value of the political donation.

False or misleading donation reports and declarations

 74.—(1) Where in any donation report or declaration which is
required by section 62 or 65 to be given to the competent authority in
relation to a politically significant person, there is —

       (a) any information or a statement that is false or misleading in
            a material particular; or

       (b) an omission of any matter or thing without which the
            donation report or declaration is misleading in a material
            particular,

every person who is, under section 64, responsible for making
disclosure of reportable political donations for the politically
significant person commits an offence.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (3) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (1) relating to a donation report or declaration if the person
has been convicted or found guilty (whether before, on or after the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         117

date of commencement of this section) on at least one other earlier
occasion of —

       (a) an offence under subsection (1); or

       (b) an offence under section 22(6) of the repealed Act.

 (4) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) in relation to
a donation report or a declaration relating to any such report, it is a
defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a balance of
probabilities, that the accused took all reasonable steps, and exercised
all due diligence, to ensure that —

       (a) the information or statement in the donation report or
            declaration (as the case may be) was not false or
            misleading in a material particular; or

       (b) the donation report or declaration did not contain any
            omission which would have made the donation report or
            declaration misleading in a material particular.

Evasion and intentional acceptance of impermissible
donations, etc.

 75.—(1) Where a person enters into, or knowingly does any act in
furtherance of, any arrangement which facilitates or is likely to
facilitate, whether by means of any concealment or disguise or
otherwise, the making of donations to a politically significant person
by a donor —

       (a) who is not a permissible donor; or

       (b) who is a prohibited donor in relation to the politically
            significant person,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) Where a person —

       (a) knowingly gives a politically significant person any
            information relating to the identity of a donor of a
            political donation, or the amount of any political
            donation, made to the politically significant person or to

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
118  NO. 28 OF 2021

            the person or body making such a donation, which is false
            in a material particular; or

       (b) with intent to deceive, withholds from a politically
            significant person any material information relating to
            the identity of the donor of a political donation, or the
            amount of any political donation, made to the politically
            significant person,

the person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (4) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (2) if the person has been convicted or found guilty
(whether before, on or after the date of commencement of this
section) on at least one other earlier occasion of —

       (a) an offence under subsection (2); or

       (b) an offence under section 23(2) of the repealed Act.

 (5) Where —

       (a) a politically significant person accepts any political
            donation from a person (called a donor) who, at the time
            of its acceptance by the politically significant person —

               (i) is not a permissible donor; or

              (ii) is a prohibited donor in relation to the politically
                   significant person; and

       (b) the politically significant person knew or ought reasonably
            to have known that the donor —

               (i) is not a permissible donor; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         119

              (ii) is a prohibited donor in relation to the politically
                   significant person,

the politically significant person shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

                                    PART 6

        COUNTERMEASURES FOR OTHER ACTIVITIES

                     Division 1 — Foreign affiliations

Disclosure of foreign affiliation

 76.—(1) Subject to this Act, a politically significant person must
disclose to a competent authority in accordance with this Division
every reportable arrangement to which the politically significant
person is party at any time during a reporting period.

 (2) Disclosure to a competent authority of every reportable
arrangement to which a politically significant person is party
during a reporting period must be in a foreign affiliations report
relating to the reporting period that —

       (a) is in the form required by the competent authority;

       (b) is given to the competent authority within the time
            delimited by section 77 and in the manner prescribed in
            Regulations or, subject to those Regulations, as approved
            by the competent authority;

       (c) contains the prescribed details or description of every such
            arrangement with a foreign principal during the reporting
            period, and the identity and other prescribed particulars of
            the foreign principal;

       (d) is signed by —

               (i) the politically significant person who is an
                   individual; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
120  NO. 28 OF 2021

              (ii) in any other case, the person who is required by
                   section 64 to be responsible for the disclosure of
                   reportable political donations received and accepted
                   by or on behalf of that politically significant person;
                   and

       (e) is accompanied by a declaration in subsection (3) made by
            every person referred to in paragraph (d).

 (3) The declaration required by subsection (2)(e) to accompany a
foreign affiliations report of a politically significant person must
contain a statement that, to the knowledge and belief of every person
referred to in subsection (2)(d), there is no other reportable
arrangement to which the politically significant person is party
during the reporting period to which the foreign affiliations report
relates.

 (4) In this section and section 77 —

      “appointed day” means the date of commencement of this
         section;

      “initial reporting period” means —

              (a) for a candidate at the first election after the appointed
                   day —

                     (i) in the case of an early initial election (as
                          defined in section 55), the period of 12 months
                          preceding —

                           (A) the date a declaration is made by the
                                 candidate under subsection (2) before
                                 nomination day at that early initial
                                 election; or

                           (B) the day which is 2 clear days before
                                 nomination day at that early initial
                                 election if no declaration mentioned in
                                 sub‑paragraph (A) is earlier made,

                     (i) even though this section may not have been in
                          force during any part of the period; or

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         121

(ii) the period of 12 months preceding —

(A) the date a declaration is made by the
     candidate under subsection (2) before
     nomination day at that election; or

                                         [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

(B) the day which is 2 clear days before

nomination day at that election if no

declaration        mentioned                              in

sub‑paragraph (A) is earlier made;

             [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

(b) for a candidate at an election other than an election in
     paragraph (a), the pre‑election period of the election;

(c) for an election agent of a candidate at an election, the
    period starting on the day the person becomes an
    election agent of the candidate (being after the
    appointed day), and ending on (and including) the
    31st day after the results of that election are
    published; or

(d) for any other politically significant person —

(i) the period starting on the appointed day and
    ending on (and including) 31 December of the
    same year that appointed day falls, unless
    paragraph (b) applies; or

(ii) the period starting on the day the person
     becomes a politically significant person
     (being after the appointed day), and ending
     on (and including) 31 December of the same
     year that day the person becomes a politically
     significant person falls;

“politically significant person”, in relation to a foreign
   affiliations report for any pre‑election period, does not
   include an election agent;

“pre‑election period”, for an election, means a period of
   12 months preceding —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
122  NO. 28 OF 2021

              (a) the date a declaration is made by the candidate under
                   subsection (2) before nomination day at that election;
                   or

              (b) a date which is 2 clear days before nomination day at
                   that election if no declaration mentioned in
                   paragraph (a) is earlier made;

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

      “reporting period” means —

              (a) for a candidate at an election, the pre‑election period
                   of the election;

              (b) for an election agent of a candidate at an election, the
                   period starting on the day the person becomes an
                   election agent of the candidate (being after the
                   appointed day), and ending on (and including) the
                   31st day after the results of that election are
                   published; and

              (c) for any other politically significant person, the period
                   of 12 months starting 1 January and ending
                   31 December in any year,

         and includes an initial reporting period.

When to make foreign affiliations report

 77.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), disclosure of every reportable
arrangement to which a politically significant person is party during a
reporting period must be given to a competent authority —

       (a) in relation to a disclosure of arrangements or agreements to
            which a candidate is during the pre‑election period (as
            defined in section 76) for that election a party — no later
            than 2 clear days before nomination day of that election;

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

       (b) in relation to a disclosure of arrangements or agreements to
            which an election agent of a candidate is party — no later
            than the 31st day after the results of that election are
            published; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         123

       (c) in any other case — no later than 31 January of the year
            following the year in which the reporting period ends.

 (2) Regulations may prescribe a longer period for the purposes of
subsection (1).

What is reportable arrangement

 78.—(1) A reportable arrangement to which a politically significant
person is party is an arrangement —

       (a) the politically significant person enters into or has with a
            foreign principal; and

       (b) under which the politically significant person —

               (i) undertakes an activity on behalf of the foreign
                   principal, even if the activity is not directed
                   towards a political end in Singapore;

              (ii) is accustomed, or under an obligation (whether
                   formal or informal), to engage in conduct in
                   accordance with the directions, instructions or
                   wishes of the foreign principal or, where the
                   foreign principal is an entity, of the governing
                   body of the foreign principal, even if the act is not
                   directed towards a political end in Singapore;

             (iii) is a member of the foreign principal, even if the
                   membership is not directed towards a political end in
                   Singapore; or

             (iv) has a direct association or an immediate affiliation
                   with the foreign principal, even if the association or
                   affiliation is not directed towards a political end in
                   Singapore.

 (2) To avoid doubt, a politically significant person is party to a
reportable arrangement under subsection (1) even if the person
undertakes an activity mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i) only once,
and even if no such activity is undertaken under an arrangement
mentioned in subsection (1)(a).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
124  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (3) In addition, any of the following politically significant persons
who are not entities:

       (a) an individual who is designated under section 48(1) as a
            politically significant person;

       (b) a candidate;

       (c) an election agent of a candidate;

       (d) a political office holder;

       (e) a Member of Parliament (whether or not a political office
            holder),

has a reportable arrangement to which such a politically significant
person is party if he or she is granted a migration benefit by or on
behalf of a foreign government, even if he or she did not voluntarily
claim or apply for it.

 (4) In subsection (3), a migration benefit means any of the
following that is or may be granted by or on behalf of a foreign
government to an individual who is not a citizen of the foreign
country of that foreign government:

       (a) an honorary citizenship in that foreign country;

       (b) a document of identity issued for travel purposes (whether
            or not also issued for another purpose), including a
            passport;

       (c) an entitlement or a privilege or status in order to work or
            reside (otherwise than temporarily) in that foreign country,
            which is such an entitlement or a privilege or status
            prescribed in the Regulations.

 (5) To avoid doubt, a politically significant person is party to a
reportable arrangement under subsection (3) even if the person does
not exercise any right or otherwise use any migration benefit
mentioned in subsection (3).

 (6) However, none of the following is a reportable arrangement
within the meaning of this section:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         125

       (a) a marriage between a politically significant person
            mentioned in subsection (3) and a foreigner or foreign
            government‑related individual;

       (b) an arrangement under which the politically significant
            person mentioned in subsection (3) undertakes an activity
            on behalf of a foreigner or foreign government‑related
            individual where —

               (i) the politically significant person and the foreigner or
                   foreign government‑related individual —

                    (A) are members of the same family; or

                     (B) know each other personally;

              (ii) the politically significant person undertaking the
                   activity does so because of the relationship in
                   sub‑paragraph (i) and solely in that person’s
                   personal capacity; and

             (iii) the activity is, or relates primarily to, representing in
                   good faith the interests of the foreigner or foreign
                   government‑related individual in relation to matters
                   affecting the personal welfare of the foreigner or
                   foreign government‑related individual, as the case
                   may be;

       (c) an arrangement under which the politically significant
            person has a direct association or collaboration or an
            immediate affiliation with the foreign principal solely
            because of a common membership in an association or a
            corporation that is not a foreign principal.

Reporting involvement in foreign political organisation, etc.

 79.—(1) An individual who is a citizen of Singapore (and whether
or not resident in Singapore) must, within the prescribed time, give
the competent authority a written declaration if the individual —

       (a) is, on the appointed day, a member of a foreign legislature
            or a foreign political organisation; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
126  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) becomes, after the appointed day, a member of a foreign
            legislature or a foreign political organisation.

 (2) The written declaration required by subsection (1) to be made
by an individual must contain —

       (a) the individual’s name and place of residence;

       (b) a description of the foreign legislature or the foreign
            political organisation of which the individual is a member
            and the nature of that membership; and

       (c) other particulars relating to the individual concerned
            prescribed in the Regulations.

 (3) In subsection (1), the prescribed time means a period prescribed
in Regulations —

       (a) starting the appointed day in the case of an individual who,
            on that day, is a member of a legislature of a foreign
            country or a foreign political organisation; or

       (b) starting the date the individual concerned first becomes a
            member of a legislature of a foreign country or a foreign
            political organisation.

 (4) In this section —

      “appointed day” means the date of commencement of this
         section;

      “member”, in relation to a foreign legislature or a foreign
         political organisation, includes an individual who is an
         honorary member but does not include any person by reason
         only of being —

              (a) an employee of the foreign legislature or foreign
                   political organisation;

              (b) a person who regularly conducts, or takes part in, any
                   activities (in or outside Singapore) organised or
                   sponsored by the foreign legislature or foreign
                   political organisation;

              (c) a person who regularly donates to the foreign
                   legislature or foreign political organisation; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         127

(d) a person who lobbies on behalf of the foreign
     legislature or foreign political organisation.

               Division 2 — Published‑by requirement for
                      foreign‑linked political matters

Application and interpretation

 80.—(1) This Division applies only to the following persons:

       (a) a politically significant person;

       (b) a person who is not a politically significant person but is —

               (i) authorised by a permit under section 21 of the
                   Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974 to publish
                   (for sale or otherwise) a newspaper in Singapore; or

              (ii) authorised by a licence or class licence under the
                   Broadcasting Act 1994 to provide a licensable
                   broadcasting service in or from Singapore, and the
                   broadcasting service contains at least one Singapore
                   news programme that is likely to be published for a
                   purpose that is directed towards a political end in
                   Singapore.

 (2) In this Division —

      “author”, for any political matter, means an individual who
         authored, edited, translated, illustrated, choreographed,
         directed the production of, or otherwise contributed to, the
         contents of the political matter, but for a programme which is
         broadcast or a performance, does not include an individual
         who is solely a presenter of the content of the programme or a
         performer of content provided by another;

      “Singapore news programme” means any programme
         containing any news, intelligence, report of occurrence, or
         any matter of public interest, about any social, economic,
         political, cultural, artistic, sporting, scientific or other aspect
         of Singapore in any language —

              (a) whether or not it is presenter‑based;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
128  NO. 28 OF 2021

             (b) whether or not provided by a third party;

             (c) whether paid or free; and

             (d) whether or not provided at regular intervals,

        but does not include a programme produced by or on behalf
        of the Government;

     “newspaper” means a publication printed in any language and
        published for sale or free distribution at regular intervals or
        otherwise, and containing any of the following or a
        combination of the following:

             (a) news, intelligence or reports of occurrences or any
                  matter of public interest, about any social, economic,
                  political, cultural, artistic, sporting, scientific or any
                  other aspect of Singapore in any language;

             (b) any remarks, observations or comments, in relation to
                  such news, intelligence or reports of occurrences or
                  to any other matter of public interest, or any matter of
                  public interest, about any social, economic, political,
                  cultural, artistic, sporting, scientific or any other
                  aspect of Singapore in any language,

        but does not include a publication produced by or on behalf of
        the Government;

     “political matter” means an article or essay, a commentary, talk,
        performance or programme (or part of an article or essay, a
        commentary, talk, performance or programme) that can
        reasonably be regarded as intended —

             (a) to promote the interests of a politically significant
                  person in Singapore;

             (b) to influence, or seek to influence, the outcome of any
                  election or national referendum under any written
                  law;

             (c) to bring about, or seek to bring about, changes of the
                  law in the whole or a part of Singapore, or to
                  otherwise influence, or seek to influence, the
                  legislative process in Singapore;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         129

              (d) to influence Singapore governmental decisions; or

              (e) to influence any aspect or to promote or oppose
                   political views, or public conduct relating to
                   activities that have become the subject of a political
                   debate, in Singapore,

         even though it can reasonably be regarded as intended to
         achieve any other purpose as well.

Transparency directive for publishing political matters with
foreign link

 81.—(1) A transparency directive under this section may be given
by a competent authority only to a person to whom this Division
applies.

 (2) A transparency directive may require the person to whom it is
given to take, so far as is reasonably practicable, all necessary
measures to ensure that, for each instance of political matter with a
foreign link and published in Singapore —

       (a) by a politically significant person in section 80(1)(a);

       (b) in a newspaper that is —

               (i) published (for sale or otherwise) in Singapore;

              (ii) published by the person in section 80(1)(b)(i); and

             (iii) specified in the directive; or

       (c) in a Singapore news programme included in a licensable
            broadcasting service that is —

               (i) provided by the person in section 80(1)(b)(ii) in or
                   from Singapore; and

              (ii) specified in the directive,

a disclosure about the political matter (whose content is prescribed by
subsection (3)) is included or embedded in, or linked to, the political
matter conspicuously and in the manner prescribed.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the content of the disclosure
about the political matter must —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
130  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (a) identify the author of the political matter by name or
            pseudonym and by nationality;

       (b) identify the foreign principal for whom or at whose
            direction the political matter is placed (for consideration)
            for publication;

       (c) include a statement that the political matter has a foreign
            link; and

       (d) include a statement that the disclosure is made under the
            Foreign Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021.

What is political matter with foreign link

 82. For the purposes of section 81, a political matter has a foreign
link if —

       (a) any author of the political matter is a foreigner; or

       (b) any person for whom or at whose direction the political
            matter is placed (for consideration) for publication in
            Singapore is a foreign principal.

               Division 3 — Stepped up countermeasures

Directive prohibiting foreign membership, responsible officer,
etc.

 83.—(1) A directive under this section may be given by a
competent authority only to any Part 4 politically significant entity.

 (2) A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant entity prohibiting the Part 4 politically
significant entity —

       (a) from appointing or reappointing as a responsible officer of
            the Part 4 politically significant entity, an individual who
            is —

               (i) a foreigner; or

              (ii) a particular foreigner specified in the directive; or

       (b) from permitting to act as a responsible officer of the Part 4
            politically significant entity, an individual who is —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         131

               (i) a foreigner; or

              (ii) a particular foreigner specified in the directive.

 (3) A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant entity prohibiting the Part 4 politically
significant entity from accepting as a member of the Part 4
politically significant entity, an individual who is a foreigner, or a
particular foreigner specified in the directive.

 (4) A directive under subsection (2) or (3) may, in particular, direct
the Part 4 politically significant entity —

       (a) to suspend for a period specified in the directive, a
            particular foreigner from the exercise of his or her office,
            employment or membership (as the case may be) pending
            consideration being given to the foreigner’s removal
            (whether under this section or otherwise) from his or her
            office, employment or membership; or

       (b) to remove, within the period specified in the directive, a
            particular foreigner from his or her office, employment or
            membership.

 (5) However, a period of suspension under subsection (4)(a) must
not exceed 24 months.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, “appointing” includes
appointing on an acting or a temporary basis.

Directive to end affiliation, etc., with foreign principal

 84.—(1) A directive under this section may be given by a
competent authority to any politically significant person.

 (2) A directive under this section may require a politically
significant person given the directive to end, within the period
specified in the directive, any arrangement specified in the directive,
being a reportable arrangement within the meaning of section 78.

Directive prohibiting, etc., foreign volunteers

 85.—(1) A directive under this section may be given by a
competent authority only to a Part 4 politically significant person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
132  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (2) A competent authority may give a directive to a Part 4
politically significant person either —

       (a) prohibiting the person from accepting, or requiring that
            person to stop accepting, any voluntary labour, or
            voluntary professional services, provided or to be
            provided —

               (i) generally by any individual who is not a citizen of
                   Singapore; or

              (ii) by a particular individual specified in the directive
                   who is not a citizen of Singapore,

       (a) to or for the benefit of the Part 4 politically significant
            person; or

       (b) requiring the Part 4 politically significant person to
            disclose, in accordance with subsection (3), all voluntary
            labour, or voluntary professional services, provided during
            each reporting period —

               (i) by an individual who is not a citizen of Singapore;
                   and

              (ii) to or for the benefit of the Part 4 politically
                   significant person.

 (3) Disclosure to a competent authority required under
subsection (2)(b) must be in a foreign volunteers report relating to
a reporting period that —

       (a) is in the form required by the competent authority and in
            the manner prescribed in Regulations or, subject to those
            Regulations, as approved by the competent authority;

       (b) is given to the competent authority no later than 31 January
            in the year following the year in which the voluntary
            labour, or voluntary professional services, was provided;

       (c) contains the prescribed details of every voluntary labour,
            or voluntary professional services, provided during the
            reporting period to the Part 4 politically significant person
            by an individual who is not a citizen of Singapore, and the
            prescribed particulars of each such volunteer;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         133

       (d) is signed by the person who is prescribed by Regulations to
            be responsible for making the foreign volunteers report
            relating to the Part 4 politically significant person; and

       (e) is accompanied by a declaration made by the person
            mentioned in paragraph (d) as responsible for making the
            foreign volunteers report relating to the Part 4 politically
            significant person.

 (4) Regulations may prescribe a longer period for the purposes of
subsection (3)(b).

 (5) Nothing in this section prohibits the receipt by a Part 4
politically significant person of any voluntary labour or voluntary
professional services as follows:

       (a) any voluntary labour or voluntary professional services of
            a prescribed type, being labour or services that are
            performed solely pursuant to a contract for service
            entered into or with a person providing any service to or
            for the benefit of a Part 4 politically significant person;

       (b) any voluntary labour or voluntary professional services
            provided to a Part 4 politically significant person by an
            officer or a member of the Part 4 politically significant
            person.

 (6) In this section —

      “reporting period” means the period of 12 months starting
         1 January and ending 31 December in any year, and includes
         a special reporting period;

      “special reporting period” means the period —

              (a) starting the date the directive under subsection (2)
                   takes effect; and

              (b) ending on (and including) 31 December of the same
                   year the date in paragraph (a) falls.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
134  NO. 28 OF 2021

                           Division 4 — Offences

Late Part 6 reports, etc.

 86.—(1) Where any foreign affiliations report or declaration which
is required by section 76 to be given to the competent authority is not
so given within the time delimited under section 77, then the
following persons shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of
a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction:

       (a) where the foreign affiliations report or declaration is
            required in respect of a political party or a Part 4 politically
            significant entity — the responsible officers of the political
            party or politically significant entity in question;

       (b) where the foreign affiliations report or declaration is
            required in respect of a candidate at an election or the
            candidate’s election agent — the candidate and the
            candidate’s election agent in question or (as the case
            may be) the candidate at a presidential election and the
            candidate’s principal election agent in question;

       (c) where the foreign affiliations report or declaration is
            required in respect of any other politically significant
            person — that person.

 (2) Where any declaration which is required by section 79 to be
given to the competent authority is not so given within the time
delimited under section 79, then the person required to give the
declaration shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where any foreign volunteers report or declaration which is
required by section 85(2)(b) to be given to the competent authority is
not so given by the Part 4 politically significant person given the
directive under section 85(2)(b) within the time delimited under
section 85(3)(b), then the following persons shall each be guilty of an

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         135

offence and shall each be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $200 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction:

       (a) where the foreign volunteers report or declaration is
            required in respect of a Part 4 politically significant
            entity — the responsible officers of the Part 4 politically
            significant entity in question;

       (b) where the foreign volunteers report or declaration is
            required in respect of an individual who is a Part 4
            politically significant person — that individual.

 (4) If a foreign affiliations report or foreign volunteers report which
is required by section 76 or 85(2)(b) (as the case may be) to be given
to the competent authority is given to the competent authority, but the
report does not comply with the requirements of section 76(2)(c) or
85(3)(c) (whichever being applicable) as regards the recording of
details or descriptions in the report, then the following persons shall
each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
a further fine not exceeding $200 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction:

       (a) where the foreign affiliations report or foreign volunteers
            report is required under section 76 or 85(2)(b) in respect of
            a political party or Part 4 politically significant entity —
            the responsible officers of the political party or Part 4
            politically significant entity in question;

       (b) where the foreign affiliations report or foreign volunteers
            report is required under section 76 or 85(2)(b) in respect of
            a candidate at an election or the candidate’s election
            agent — the candidate and the candidate’s election agent in
            question or (as the case may be) the candidate at a
            presidential election and the candidate’s principal election
            agent in question;

       (c) where the foreign affiliations report or foreign volunteers
            report is required under section 76 or 85(2)(b) in respect of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
136  NO. 28 OF 2021

            any other politically significant person — that politically
            significant person.

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), (2), (3) or
(4), it is a defence to the charge for the accused to prove, on a balance
of probabilities, that the accused took all reasonable steps, and
exercised all due diligence to ensure that any requirements —

       (a) as regards preparation or sending of a foreign affiliations
            report, foreign volunteers report or declaration; or

       (b) as regards the information to be given in any foreign
            affiliations report, foreign volunteers report or declaration,

as the case may be, have been complied with in relation to the report
or declaration.

False or misleading Part 6 reports and declarations

 87.—(1) Where, in any foreign affiliations report, foreign
volunteers report or declaration which is required by this Part to be
given to the competent authority in relation to a politically significant
person, there is —

       (a) any information or a statement that is false or misleading in
            a material particular; or

       (b) an omission of any matter or thing without which the
            foreign affiliations report, foreign volunteers report or
            declaration is misleading in a material particular,

every person who is, under section 76(2)(d) or 85(3)(d) (as the case
may be), responsible for making disclosure of foreign affiliations as
required by section 76, or foreign volunteers as required by
section 85(2)(b), for the politically significant person commits an
offence.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         137

       (b) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
            exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (3) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (1) relating to a foreign affiliations report, foreign
volunteers report or declaration if the person has been convicted or
found guilty (whether before, on or after the date of commencement
of this section) on at least one other earlier occasion of —

       (a) an offence under subsection (1); or

       (b) an offence under section 22(6) of the repealed Act.

 (4) Where in any declaration which is required by section 79 to be
given to the competent authority there is —

       (a) any information or a statement that is false or misleading in
            a material particular; or

       (b) an omission of any matter or thing without which the
            declaration is misleading in a material particular,

the person who made the declaration shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1) in relation to
a foreign affiliations report, foreign volunteers report or declaration
relating to such a report, or under subsection (4) in relation to a
declaration required under section 79, it is a defence to the charge for
the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that the accused
took all reasonable steps, and exercised all due diligence, to ensure
that —

       (a) any information or statement in the report or declaration
            (as the case may be) was not false or misleading in a
            material particular; and

       (b) the report or declaration did not contain any omission
            which would have made the report or declaration
            misleading in a material particular.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
138  NO. 28 OF 2021

                                    PART 7

                   CONDITIONS FOR STEPPED UP
                          COUNTERMEASURES

Circumstances where Part 5 or 6 directive may be given

 88. Unless expressly provided otherwise, a competent authority
may give —

       (a) a prohibited donor directive to a Part 4 politically
            significant person;

       (b) an anonymous donations directive to a Part 4 politically
            significant person;

       (c) a political donations fund directive to a Part 4 politically
            significant person;

       (d) a directive under section 71 to a Part 4 politically
            significant entity affecting major donors to that entity;

       (e) a transparency directive under section 81 to a person
            mentioned in section 80 regarding political matters
            published in Singapore;

        (f) a directive under section 83 to a Part 4 politically
            significant entity;

       (g) a directive under section 84 to a politically significant
            person to end a reportable arrangement;

       (h) a directive under section 85(2)(a) to a Part 4 politically
            significant person prohibiting voluntary labour or
            voluntary professional services; or

        (i) a directive under section 85(2)(b) to a Part 4 politically
            significant person requiring a foreign volunteers report
            regarding voluntary labour or voluntary professional
            services,

only where the competent authority is satisfied —

        (j) that the person to whom the directive is to be given is
            undertaking, has undertaken or is likely to undertake (on or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         139

            after the date of commencement of this Part) an activity on
            behalf of a foreign principal; and

       (k) that it is in the public interest that such a directive ought to
            be given, after having regard to the circumstances of the
            case.

Content and effect of directives: general

 89.—(1) A directive mentioned in section 88 (each called a
directive under Part 5 or 6) is binding on the person to whom it is
addressed.

 (2) A directive under Part 5 or 6 must be in writing.

 (3) A directive under Part 5 or 6 must state —

       (a) the things that the politically significant person is required
            by the competent authority to do, or to refrain from doing,
            as are specified in the directive or are of a description as
            specified in the directive;

       (b) whether the person to whom it is given must —

               (i) advise the competent authority of the details of the
                   manner in which the person proposes to comply with
                   the directive;

              (ii) keep information about the matters that are the
                   subject of the directive;

             (iii) regularly notify the competent authority about the
                   steps being taken towards compliance with the
                   directive; or

             (iv) give written notice to the competent authority when
                   the person has complied with the directive; and

       (c) that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply with the
            directive.

 (4) To avoid doubt, subsection (3) does not prevent any other
relevant matter as is reasonably necessary to enable the directive to be
effective being contained in a directive under Part 5 or 6.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
140  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (5) A directive under Part 5 or 6 that is given in accordance with this
Part takes effect when it is given or on a later date specified in the
directive.

 (6) A directive under Part 5 or 6 continues in force until the
competent authority revokes the directive or it is cancelled on review
under Part 8.

 (7) A directive under Part 5 or 6 may be amended or revoked at any
time by the competent authority if the competent authority is satisfied
that the circumstances warrant it.

 (8) Subsection (6) does not prevent a further directive being made
under Part 5 or 6 in the same terms as a directive that has been
revoked.

 (9) Any person to whom a directive is given under Part 5 or 6 must
comply with the directive.

 (10) Unless otherwise ordered by the Minister, a directive of the
competent authority appealed against under Part 8 must be complied
with until the determination of the appeal.

 (11) A directive under Part 5 or 6 has effect despite the provisions
of —

       (a) any other written law in force on the date of
            commencement of this Part; and

       (b) the constitution, memorandum or articles of association,
            trust deed or equivalent instrument of a politically
            significant person.

Process of giving directives: general

 90.—(1) A competent authority may give a politically significant
person any one or more directives under Part 5 or 6.

 (2) In making a directive under Part 5 or 6, it is not necessary for the
competent authority to give any person who may be affected by the
directive a chance to be heard before the directive is given.

 (3) Subject to section 71(2), it is not necessary to publish any
directive given under Part 5 or 6 in the Gazette.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         141

Offences involving directives to politically significant persons

 91.—(1) Where a person to whom a directive under Part 5 or 6 is
given, without reasonable excuse, contravenes the directive —

       (a) the responsible officers of a political party or Part 4
            politically significant entity given the directive; or

       (b) in any other case, the person given the directive,

commits an offence.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) for a prohibited donor directive or an anonymous
            donations directive —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender, to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
                   exceeding 3 years or to both;

       (b) for a political donations fund directive under section 69, to
            a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
            or part of a day during which the offence continues after
            conviction;

       (c) [Deleted by Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

       (d) for a transparency directive under section 81, to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both and, in the case of a second
            or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or
            to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
            both;

       (e) for a directive under section 83 or 84, to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
142              NO. 28 OF 2021

        (f) for a directive under section 85, to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both.

 (3) A person is a repeat offender in relation to an offence under
subsection (1) relating to a prohibited donor directive or an
anonymous donations directive (called the current offence) if the
person has been convicted or found guilty (whether before, on or after
the date of commencement of this section) on at least one other earlier
occasion of an offence under subsection (1) with respect to —

       (a) another prohibited donor directive if the current offence
            involves a prohibited donor directive; or

       (b) another anonymous donations directive if the current
            offence involves an anonymous donations directive.

                                    PART 8

                    OVERSIGHT ARRANGEMENTS

                      Division 1 — Rights of appeal

Right of appeal against authorisation for Part 3 directions, etc.

 92.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 98(1), the following
persons in the table below may, on payment of such fee as may be
prescribed, appeal to a Reviewing Tribunal in accordance with this
Part against the appealable decision specified opposite the person in
the table below:

Item  Appellant .  Appealable decision

     1. A person who is . An authorisation by the Minister

      given a Part 3 made under section 23(3)(b) or

      direction    affirmed under section 23(3)(c) to

                   the competent authority to give

                   that Part 3 direction.

     2. A proprietor of a A declaration by the Minister made

      proscribed online under section 26(3)(b) or affirmed

      location     under section 26(3)(c) in relation

                   to that online location.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         143

 (2) No appeal may be made under this Part to a Reviewing Tribunal
by —

       (a) any person given a Part 3 direction pursuant to an
            authorisation by the Minister under section 20(1), 21(1)
            or 22(1)(b) unless the person has first applied under
            section 23(1) to the Minister to reconsider the
            authorisation; or

       (b) any proprietor of a proscribed online location declared
            under section 24(1) or 25(1)(b) unless the person has first
            applied under section 26(1) to the Minister to reconsider
            the declaration.

Right of appeal against competent authority’s decisions

 93. A person —

       (a) who is designated a Part 4 politically significant entity or
            politically significant person under section 47(1) or 48(1);

       (b) whose application to cancel the person’s designation as a
            Part 4 politically significant entity or politically significant
            person under section 47(4) or 48(4) is refused; or

       (c) who is given a directive under Part 5 or 6,

may appeal to the Minister in accordance with this Part against the
decision in paragraph (a), (b) or (c), as the case may be.

                    Division 2 — Reviewing Tribunals
                           for section 92 appeals

Reviewing Tribunals — composition

 94.—(1) One or more bodies each called a Reviewing Tribunal is
established by this section.

 (2) Every Reviewing Tribunal consists of 3 individuals, each of
whom is appointed by the President on the advice of the Cabinet
subject to subsections (3) and (4).

 (3) An individual must not be, or be appointed, a member of any
Reviewing Tribunal if he or she is not a citizen of Singapore.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
144  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (4) The chairperson of every Reviewing Tribunal must be a
Supreme Court Judge.

 (5) A member of a Reviewing Tribunal must vacate office at the
end of a period of 3 years starting the day of his or her appointment,
but is eligible for reappointment.

 (6) A member of a Reviewing Tribunal may resign his or her office
by giving notice in writing to the President.

 (7) In the performance of his or her functions and duties under this
Act, the members of a Reviewing Tribunal each have the same
protection and immunity as a Judge of the High Court.

 (8) The proceedings of a Reviewing Tribunal are deemed to be
judicial proceedings and every member of the Reviewing Tribunal
Board is deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the
Penal Code 1871.

Reviewing Tribunal — remuneration and other terms

 95.—(1) The Minister may pay to the members of a Reviewing
Tribunal out of moneys provided by Parliament such remuneration or
allowances as the Minister may, with the approval of the President,
fix.

 (2) The remuneration and other terms of service of each member of
a Reviewing Tribunal must not be altered to his or her disadvantage
during his or her continuance in office as such.

Reviewing Tribunal — resources

 96.—(1) All expenses of every Reviewing Tribunal are to be
defrayed out of money provided by Parliament.

 (2) The Minister must appoint a Secretary to the Reviewing
Tribunals and such other public officers as are necessary for a
Reviewing Tribunal to discharge its functions under this Act.

Reviewing Tribunal — function

 97.—(1) It is the function and duty of every Reviewing Tribunal to
consider and determine any appeal made under section 92 and served
on the Secretary to the Reviewing Tribunals —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         145

       (a) by a person who is given a Part 3 direction and who may
            appeal against the authorisation by the Minister made
            under section 23(3)(b) or affirmed under section 23(3)(c)
            to the competent authority to give the direction; or

       (b) by a proprietor of a proscribed online location and who
            may appeal against the Minister’s declaration made under
            section 26(3)(b) or affirmed under section 26(3)(c) in
            relation to that online location.

 (2) However, a Reviewing Tribunal may summarily dismiss any
appeal which it determines to be frivolous or vexatious.

 (3) A Reviewing Tribunal may determine an appeal made to the
Reviewing Tribunal by —

       (a) dismissing the appeal and confirming the decision
            appealed against; or

       (b) revoking the decision appealed against.

 (4) Every Reviewing Tribunal has to carry out its work
expeditiously.

 (5) In relation to a Reviewing Tribunal determining an appeal under
this Part, Part 3 applies as if the reference in that Part to the Minister
were a reference to the Reviewing Tribunal.

 (6) A Reviewing Tribunal’s decision under subsection (3) is final.

Procedure before Reviewing Tribunal

 98.—(1) Except where a Reviewing Tribunal, having regard to all
the circumstances, is satisfied that it is equitable to do so, the
Reviewing Tribunal must not consider or determine any appeal
against —

       (a) an authorisation by the Minister made under
            section 23(3)(b) or affirmed under section 23(3)(c) to the
            competent authority to give a Part 3 direction, if the appeal
            is made more than 30 days after the notice of that decision
            is given under section 23(6); or

       (b) a declaration made under section 26(3)(b) or affirmed
            under section 26(3)(c) in relation to a proscribed online

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
146  NO. 28 OF 2021

            location, if the appeal is made more than 30 days after the
            notice of that decision is given under section 26(5).

 (2) A Reviewing Tribunal may at any stage in the appeal
proceedings, and without calling for a defence from the Minister
whose authorisation or declaration is appealed against, dismiss an
appeal made to or before it if the Reviewing Tribunal is satisfied
that —

       (a) the appellant is not a person entitled to appeal under that
            section;

       (b) the bringing of the appeal is or the proceedings of the
            appeal are frivolous or vexatious, which may include
            taking into account whether the appellant has habitually
            and persistently, and without any reasonable ground, made
            vexatious appeals to the Reviewing Tribunal; or

       (c) the appellant has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
            comply with the time delimited by any provision of Rules
            made under section 99 for the submission of any notice,
            document or other information in the appeal proceedings,
            or with any direction of the Reviewing Tribunal under
            those Rules.

 (3) Subject to Rules made under section 99, every Reviewing
Tribunal is entitled to determine its own procedure in relation to any
appeal under section 92 made to or before the Reviewing Tribunal.

Rules for Reviewing Tribunal proceedings

 99.—(1) Rules may be made by the Minister to prescribe the
practice and procedure to be followed on, or in connection with, the
hearing or consideration of any proceedings or appeal (including,
where applicable, the mode and burden of proof and the admissibility
of evidence) before a Reviewing Tribunal.

 (2) In particular, the Rules made under subsection (1) may
include —

       (a) requiring persons making an appeal to take such
            preliminary steps, and to make such disclosures, as may
            be specified in the Rules for the purpose of facilitating a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         147

     determination whether the making of the appeal is
     frivolous or vexatious;

(b) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to hear or
     consider any proceedings or appeal without the person who
     brought the appeal having been given full particulars of the
     reasons for any conduct which is the subject of the
     proceedings or appeal;

(c) the need to secure that matters which are the subject of
     proceedings or appeals brought before or made to a
     Reviewing Tribunal are properly heard and considered;

(d) prescribing the circumstances and manner in which
     appeals in relation to the same decision, or involve the
     same or similar issues, may be consolidated or heard
     together;

(e) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to take any
     steps in exercise of their jurisdiction in the absence of any
     person (including the person bringing the proceedings or
     making the appeal and any legal representative of the
     person);

(f) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to give a
     summary of any evidence taken in its absence to the person
     by whom the proceedings were brought or (as the case may
     be) to the person who made the appeal;

(g) securing that the information is not disclosed to an extent,
     or in a manner, that is contrary to Singapore’s national
     security, the prevention or detection of serious crime, the
     economic wellbeing of Singapore or the continued
     discharge of the functions of any of the intelligence
     services of Singapore; and

(h) providing for the manner in which the interests of a person
     who has made an appeal under section 92 are to be
     represented, such as for the appointment in accordance
     with the Rules, by such person as may be determined in
     accordance with the Rules, of a person to represent those
     interests.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
148  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (3) All Rules made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                     Division 3 — Section 93 appeals

Appeals to Minister

 100.—(1) An appeal against an appealable decision described in
section 93 may only be made to the Minister within one month after
the appellant is notified of that decision (called the first appeal period)
or such longer period as the Minister may allow in exceptional
circumstances before the end of the first appeal period; and the
Minister must not consider or determine any appeal made by virtue of
section 93 if it is made later.

 (2) Every appeal under section 93 must be made in the manner
prescribed or, if not prescribed, in the manner required by the
Minister.

Minister’s function on appeal

 101.—(1) It is the function and duty of the Minister to consider and
determine an appeal made to the Minister against any appealable
decision mentioned in section 93.

 (2) However, the Minister is not under any duty to hear, consider or
determine any appeal if it appears that the bringing of the appeal is or
the proceedings of the appeal are frivolous or vexatious.

 (3) The Minister may determine an appeal made to him or her by —

       (a) dismissing the appeal and confirming the decision
            appealed against; or

       (b) cancelling the designation of a person as a politically
            significant person, or revoking a directive under Part 5 or 6
            (as the case may be) or otherwise revoking the decision
            appealed against.

 (4) In relation to the Minister determining an appeal under
section 93, Parts 4, 5 and 6 apply as if the reference in those Parts
to the competent authority were a reference to the Minister.

 (5) The Minister’s decision under subsection (3) is final.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         149

Advisory body for section 93 appeals

 102.—(1) The Minister may appoint an advisory committee
comprising individuals with suitable experience to provide advice
to the Minister with regard to the performance of any of his or her
functions in relation to any appeal under section 93.

 (2) Before making any decision under section 101 in relation to an
appeal under section 93 and for the purpose of forming an opinion on
which to base such decision, the Minister may consult with the
advisory committee in respect of the appeal but, in making the
decision, is not bound by such consultation.

                            Division 4 — General

Effect of appeal on decision appealed against

 103. An appealable decision mentioned in section 92 or 93 takes
effect despite any appeal against the decision and remains in effect
until the decision is reversed on appeal.

Limited judicial review

 104.—(1) Every determination, order and other decision of a
Reviewing Tribunal, the Minister, or the alternate authority
mentioned in section 106, made or purportedly made under this
Act —

       (a) is final; and

       (b) is not to be challenged, appealed against, reviewed,
            quashed or called in question in any court, except in
            regard to any question relating to compliance with any
            procedural requirement of this Act or the Regulations or
            Rules governing that determination, order and other
            decision.

 (2) A determination, an order and other decision includes a
determination, an order and other decision purportedly made,
proposed to be made, or required to be made, under this Act or any
Regulations or Rules if there were not an excess of jurisdiction or a
failure to exercise jurisdiction, in the making of the determination,
order or other decision.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
150  NO. 28 OF 2021

                                    PART 9

             ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT

Competent authorities

 105.—(1) The Minister may appoint —

       (a) a public sector officer to be the competent authority for the
            administration of this Act and the Regulations generally; or

       (b) one or more public sector officers to be each a competent
            authority responsible for the administration of a particular
            Part or provision of this Act or the Regulations generally or
            for a particular period.

 (2) A competent authority is, subject to any general or special
directions of the Minister, responsible for the administration of this
Act and may perform such duties as are imposed and may exercise
such powers as are conferred upon the competent authority by this
Act.

 (3) The Minister may from time to time give a competent authority
directions of a general character, and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the powers and discretions
conferred on the competent authority by, and the duties required to be
discharged by the competent authority, under Part 4, 5, 6 or 7 and any
Regulations made for the purposes of any of those Parts; and the
competent authority must give effect to all these directions given.

 (4) A competent authority must act in the discharge of its functions
under this Act impartially, with integrity and professionalism and in a
manner that facilitates effective democracy.

 (5) A competent authority must not exercise any power under this
Act for the purpose of furthering or harming the interests of any
particular political party.

Alternate arrangements during election period, etc.

 106.—(1) The powers of the Minister under Part 3 cease to be
exercisable by the Minister during any of the following periods:

       (a) an election period;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         151

       (b) between the day a writ of election is issued under
            section 24 of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 for
            the purposes of a by‑election and ending with the close of
            polling day at that by‑election;

       (c) between the day a writ of election is issued under section 6
            of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 for the purposes of a
            presidential election and ending with the close of polling
            day at that presidential election;

       (d) between the day an order requiring the conduct for a
            national referendum is issued under any written law and
            ending with the close of polling day at that national
            referendum.

 (2) The powers of the Minister under Part 3 may, during the election
period in subsection (1)(a) and the period in subsection (1)(b), (c) or
(d), respectively, be exercised by an alternate authority appointed by
the Minister before the start of that period.

 (3) At the end of the election period in subsection (1)(a) and the
period in subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d), respectively, the alternate
authority appointed under subsection (2) by the Minister for that
period ceases to have exercisable any powers of the Minister under
Part 3.

 (4) In this section, “election period” means the period —

       (a) starting the day a writ of election is issued under section 24
            of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 for the purposes of
            a general election of Members of Parliament; and

       (b) ending with the close of polling day at that general
            election.

Authorised officers

 107.—(1) A competent authority may, in relation to any provision
of this Act or the Regulations that the competent authority is
responsible to administer, appoint as authorised officers for the
purposes of that provision —

       (a) from among public officers; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
152  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) from among employees of a public authority (except a
            Town Council) or individuals performing duties in such a
            public authority.

 (2) A competent authority may, for any reason that appears to it to
be sufficient, at any time revoke an individual’s appointment as an
authorised officer.

 (3) A competent authority may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the competent authority
by any provision of this Act or the Regulations (except the power of
delegation conferred by this subsection) to an authorised officer; and
any reference in the provision of this Act or the Regulations to the
competent authority includes a reference to such an authorised
officer.

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) by a competent authority
may be general or in a particular case and may be subject to such
conditions or limitations as set out in this Act or as the competent
authority may specify.

 (5) A reference in subsection (1) to an individual performing duties
in a public authority is a reference to —

       (a) an employee of the public authority; or

       (b) a public officer performing duties in the public authority
            under a secondment arrangement making available
            temporarily to the public authority the services of public
            officers.

Power to obtain information

 108.—(1) A competent authority may by written notice require any
person (whether in or outside Singapore) to provide, within a period
or at intervals specified in the notice, and in such form and manner as
may be specified in the notice, all documents or all information or
material (or both), for the purposes in subsection (2), such as
documents or information or material about all or any of the
following:

       (a) the membership of the person by individuals who are not
            citizens of Singapore;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         153

       (b) relations with foreign principals;

       (c) the provision of voluntary labour, or voluntary professional
            services, to or for the benefit of the person by individuals
            who are not citizens of Singapore;

       (d) recurrent and capital expenditure for the administration
            and management of activities undertaken by the person
            which are directed towards a political end in Singapore.

 (2) The power in subsection (1) may be exercised only in
relation —

       (a) to any matter which the competent authority considers
            necessary for any of the following purposes:

               (i) to determine whether any information or material
                   provided to a competent authority under a provision
                   of this Act or the Regulations is correct;

              (ii) to determine whether there are grounds for any
                   directive to be given under this Act against any
                   person;

             (iii) to determine whether or not to exercise any power
                   under Part 4, 5 or 6; and

                                                                                 [Act 8 of 2023 wef 29/12/2023]

       (b) to documents or information or material that is —

               (i) within the knowledge of the person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of that person.

 (3) The power to require a person to provide any document or any
information or material under subsection (1) includes the power —

       (a) to require the person, or any individual who is or was a
            responsible officer or an agent or a member of a politically
            significant person (as the case may be), to provide an
            explanation of the document or the information or
            material;

       (b) if the document or the information or material is not
            provided, to require that person or individual to state, to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
154  NO. 28 OF 2021

            best of the knowledge and belief of that person or
            individual (as the case may be), where it is; or

       (c) if the information or material is recorded otherwise than in
            legible form, to require the information to be made
            available to the competent authority in legible form.

 (4) A competent authority is entitled without payment to keep any
document or any information or material, or any copy or extract
thereof, provided to the competent authority under subsection (1).

 (5) Subject to subsection (7), a person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person is required by a notice given to the person under
            this section to provide documents or information or
            material to a competent authority; and

       (b) the person —

               (i) fails to provide the document or the information or
                   material to the competent authority; or

              (ii) alters, suppresses or destroys any document or any
                   information or material which the person has been
                   required by the notice to provide.

 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case
of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (7) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (5), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities that —

       (a) the person does not possess the document or the
            information or material required; or

       (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
            person to obtain the document or the information or
            material required and has been unable to obtain it.

 (8) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (5), it is not a
defence for a person to refuse or fail to provide any document or any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         155

information or material if doing so might tend to incriminate that
person.

 (9) Where a person claims, before producing any document or
giving any information or material that the person is required by this
section to produce or give, that the production of the document or the
giving of the information or material might tend to incriminate the
person —

       (a) that document or information or material;

       (b) the production of the document or the provision of the
            information or material; or

       (c) any information, document or thing obtained as a direct or
            indirect consequence of the production of the document or
            giving of the information or material,

is not admissible in evidence against the person in any criminal
proceedings other than proceedings for an offence under this Act or
any written law in respect of the falsity of the document or the
information or material.

 (10) An offence under subsection (5) is a strict liability offence.

False or misleading information, etc.

 109.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person gives information or material or produces a
            document to a competent authority;

       (b) the person does so in response to a notice given to the
            person under section 108;

       (c) either —

               (i) the information or material or the document is false
                   or misleading in a material particular; or

              (ii) the information or material omits any matter or thing
                   without which the information or material is
                   misleading in a material particular; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
156  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (d) the person knew that —

               (i) the information or document is false or misleading in
                   a material particular; or

              (ii) the information omits any matter or thing without
                   which the information is misleading in a material
                   particular.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in
the case of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not exceeding
$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (3) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person gives information or material or produces a
            document to a competent authority;

       (b) the person does so in response to a notice given to the
            person under section 108; and

       (c) either —

               (i) the information or material or the document is false
                   or misleading in a material particular; or

              (ii) the information or material omits any matter or thing
                   without which the information or material is
                   misleading in a material particular.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

 (5) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (3) in relation to
any information or material which is required by a notice under
section 108 to be given, it is a defence to the charge for the accused to
prove, on a balance of probabilities, that the accused took all
reasonable steps, and exercised all due diligence, to ensure that —

       (a) the information or material was not false or misleading in a
            material particular; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         157

       (b) the information or material did not contain any omission
            which would have made the information or material
            misleading in a material particular.

 (6) An offence under subsection (3) is a strict liability offence.

Offences by corporations

 110.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
158  NO. 28 OF 2021

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section also does not affect the application
of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any other written law or practice regarding the
            admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of the
corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether or not
the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

              (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

              (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
                   members, any of those members as if the member
                   were a director of the corporation;

      “reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
         includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
         following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

              (a) action towards —

                     (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                          the provision creating the offence; and

                     (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                          professional assessments of its compliance
                          with the provision;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         159

              (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
                   employees, agents and contractors are provided
                   with information, training, instruction and
                   supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
                   comply with the provision creating the offence so far
                   as the provision is relevant to them;

              (c) action towards ensuring that —

                     (i) the plant, equipment and other resources; and

                     (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                          processes,

              (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

              (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
                   culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
                   lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
                   the offence;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to any offence in Division 3
or 4 of Part 3.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 111.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association of
            the partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of
            his or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
160  NO. 28 OF 2021

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         161

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section also does not affect the application
of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) any other law or practice regarding the admissibility of
            evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of an
unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under this
Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of an executive
                   committee of the unincorporated association; and

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 110;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) Subsections (2) and (3) do not apply to any offence in Division 3
or 4 of Part 3.

Arrestable and non‑bailable offences

 112.—(1) Every offence as follows is arrestable and is non‑bailable
for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010:

       (a) an offence in Part 2 or 3;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
162  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) an abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an
            offence mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) Every offence as follows is arrestable for the purposes of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010:

       (a) an offence in Part 5, 6 or 7;

       (b) an abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an
            offence mentioned in paragraph (a).

Jurisdiction of courts

 113. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or
a Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

Composition of offences

 114.—(1) The competent authority may compound any offence
under this Act or the Regulations prescribed as being a compoundable
offence by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of the
following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the composition amount under subsection (1), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Extra‑territorial application of offences

 115.—(1) Sections 17(1), 18(1), 19(1), 45, 108(5) and 109(1) and
(3) each extend to a person who undertakes electronic
communications activity or engages in any conduct that constitutes
an offence described in the respective section —

       (a) wholly or partly in Singapore;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         163

       (b) wholly or partly on a Singapore aircraft or Singapore
            vessel, whether the aircraft or vessel is in or outside
            Singapore at the time of the alleged offence; or

       (c) wholly outside Singapore and a result of that electronic
            communications activity or conduct (as the case may be)
            occurs wholly or partly in Singapore or on board a
            Singapore aircraft or Singapore vessel.

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), where a person sends a thing
or causes a thing to be sent (whether or not electronically) —

       (a) from a point outside Singapore to a point in Singapore; or

       (b) from a point in Singapore to a point outside Singapore,

that conduct is taken to have occurred partly in Singapore.

Public notice of Part 5 or 6 directives, etc.

 116. Without limiting sections 49 and 71(2), the competent
authority must prepare a notice informing about every Part 3
direction (except a technical assistance direction) given, every
designation made under Part 4, or every directive given under
Part 5 or 6, with respect to any person, and publish the notice —

       (a) on the official website of the competent authority; and

       (b) in such other manner as will secure adequate publicity for
            the fact of the giving of the Part 3 direction, the making of
            the designation or giving of the directive.

                                   PART 10

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Interface with other laws

 117.—(1) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Act —

       (a) affects a police officer’s powers or duties under any other
            provision of this Act, the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 or
            other written law; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
164  NO. 28 OF 2021

       (b) derogates from any of the following:
               (i) the Broadcasting Act 1994;
              (ii) the Foreign Recruiting Act 1875;

             (iii) the Internal Security Act 1960;
             (iv) the Foreign National Emblems (Control of Display)

                   Act 1949;

                                                                               [Act 29 of 2022 wef 01/08/2023]

              (v) the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act 1974;
             (vi) the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954;
            (vii) the Presidential Elections Act 1991;
            (viii) the Protection from Online Falsehoods and

                   Manipulation Act 2019;
             (ix) the Penal Code 1871;
              (x) the Public Order Act 2009;
             (xi) the Public Order and Safety (Special Powers)

                   Act 2018;
            (xii) the Societies Act 1966;
            (xiii) the Telecommunications Act 1999.
 (2) To further avoid doubt, this Act does not affect the law relating
to —
       (a) the powers, privileges and immunities of any of the
            following:

               (i) the Parliament;
              (ii) the Members of Parliament;
             (iii) the committees of Parliament; or
       (b) legal professional privilege.

Other causes of action not affected
 118. The giving of a direction under Part 3 in relation to any

information or material does not affect —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         165

       (a) any power or right of any person to take any action under
            any other law in relation to the information or material; or

       (b) the power of the Public Prosecutor to initiate proceedings
            for an offence under this Act or any other law in relation to
            that information or material.

Liability for complying with directions and directives, etc.

 119.—(1) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by the person or
an officer, employee or agent of the person, for doing or omitting to
do any act, if the act is done or omitted to be done with reasonable
care and in good faith and for the purpose of the person complying
with or giving effect to —

       (a) a direction under Part 3 given to the person; or

       (b) a directive under Part 5 or 6 given to the person.

 (2) No liability shall lie against any competent authority, authorised
officer or the Secretary to the Reviewing Tribunals for anything done
or intended to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the
execution or purported execution of this Act when assisting a police
officer.

Exempt activities

 120.—(1) A person is exempt from this Act in relation to any
activity undertaken by the person as follows:

       (a) a communication made in proceedings that are a matter of
            public record to a committee of the Parliament or
            committee of Parliament, or to any body or person
            having jurisdiction or powers conferred under an Act;

       (b) a communication made to a Member of Parliament by or
            on behalf of a constituent of the Member of Parliament
            with respect to any personal matter of the constituent;

       (c) a communication made to the Government or a public
            authority by or on behalf of a person in direct response to a
            written request from the Government or a public authority
            for advice or comment on any Singapore governmental
            decision;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
166  NO. 28 OF 2021

     (d) a communication made to the Government or a public
          authority by or on behalf of a person concerning —

            (i) the enforcement, interpretation or application of any
                 Act or subsidiary legislation by the Government or a
                 public authority with respect to the person; or

           (ii) the implementation or administration of any
                 programme, policy, directive or guideline by the
                 Government or public authority with respect to the
                 person;

     (e) an activity undertaken or a conduct engaged in that relates
          primarily to, or is incidental to, the provision of —

            (i) legal advice;

           (ii) legal representation in criminal or civil inquiries,
                 investigations or proceedings; or

           (iii) legal representation in relation to a regulatory action
                 or an administrative process under any written law;

     (f) an activity undertaken, or a conduct engaged in, in the
          ordinary course of the person’s practice of the vocation of a
          tax agent or a liquidator or receiver, primarily or incidental
          to the provision of representation in relation to an
          administrative process involving a foreign principal,
          where both the following are apparent or disclosed to all
          other persons with whom that person is dealing with:

            (i) the identity of the foreign principal;

           (ii) the fact that the person is undertaking the activity on
                 behalf of a foreign principal;

     (g) an activity undertaken, or a conduct engaged in, in the
          individual’s capacity as a public officer, or an employee of
          a public authority, in the discharge of his or her duties as
          such;

     (h) an activity undertaken, or a conduct engaged in, on behalf
          of a foreign principal in circumstances prescribed by
          Regulations.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         167

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), “personal matter” means a
matter that relates only to a person’s personal, family or household
affairs and is not related to any business or commercial activity.

 (3) However, a submission made to a Member of Parliament
concerning the introduction in the Parliament or the passage or
amendment of a private Bill for the special benefit of a constituent of
the Member of Parliament is not considered to be a personal matter of
the constituent.

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (1)(a) to (g), it is irrelevant that
the activity or conduct is undertaken for any commission, payment or
other reward (whether pecuniary or otherwise).

 (5) In this section, “constituent”, in relation to a Member of
Parliament, means a resident of the constituency that the Member of
Parliament represents, whether or not the resident is a registered voter
for that constituency.

Service of documents

 121.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
168  NO. 28 OF 2021

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document (other than a summons) permitted or
required by this Act to be served on an individual, a partnership, a
body corporate or an unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         169

            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents;

       (b) where by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the name of
            any individual or a body of persons to whom the document
            is to be served, or the business address, residential address
            or last email address of the individual or body, cannot be
            ascertained, by posting it on a website maintained by the
            competent authority and prescribed by the Minister by
            notification in the Gazette for this purpose; or

       (c) by any other method authorised by the Regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
            (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
            kind in that way.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent;

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered);
            and

       (d) if the document is posted on a website mentioned in
            subsection (5)(b), at the beginning of the day after the date
            on which subsection (5)(b) has been complied with.

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
170  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (8) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in or outside Singapore;
                   or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in or outside Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice, direction, directive or an order
         permitted or required by this Act to be served, but excludes
         any document to be served in proceedings in court;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in or outside Singapore.

Regulations

 122.—(1) Subject to subsection (5), the Minister may make
Regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying
out or giving effect to this Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         171

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Regulations may make
provision for —

       (a) an electronic or internet‑based system of lodgment of
            donation reports, foreign affiliations reports and
            declarations under Part 5 or 6 and the issuance of
            certificates under this Act;

       (b) requiring politically significant persons to obtain
            valuations from a valuer approved by a competent
            authority of political donations that are not gifts of
            money or enabling a competent authority to obtain any
            such valuations;

       (c) requiring the making, keeping and auditing of records of
            political donations made or received, and expenditure
            incurred, by politically significant persons and other
            persons, and requiring and otherwise providing for the
            production, examination and copying of those records; and

       (d) the purpose of providing practical guidance or certainty in
            respect of any one or more of the requirements of Part 3.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may —

       (a) create offences which may be punishable with a fine not
            exceeding $5,000; and

       (b) provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential provisions as the Minister considers
            necessary or expedient consequent on persons becoming
            politically significant persons or ceasing to be politically
            significant persons, on amendments to the Regulations or
            other similar matters.

 (4) All Regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

 (5) However, where a writ is issued, no Regulations are to be made
amending —

       (a) the applicable cap for anonymous donations; or

       (b) the minimum amount of political donation that is a
            reportable political donation,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
172  NO. 28 OF 2021

until after the last day prescribed by section 74(1) of the
Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 or, in the case of a presidential
election, by section 56(1) of the Presidential Elections Act 1991, for
the transmission of returns respecting election expenses in connection
with the election or (as the case may be) presidential election.

Repeal

 123. The Political Donations Act 2000 is repealed.

                                    PART 11

                  AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
                        AND FINAL PROVISIONS

Amendment of Parliamentary Elections Act 1954

 124.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended by inserting, immediately after the definition of
“Parliament”, the following definition:

      “ “political donation certificate” means a political donation
           certificate issued under section 63(3) of the Foreign
           Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021 in respect of an
           election;”.

 (2) Section 27 of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting subsection (3) and substituting the following
            subsection:

                    “(3) Every candidate must, at the time of his or her
                  nomination for election, deliver to the Returning
                  Officer a political donation certificate issued to the
                  candidate in respect of the election.”; and

       (b) [Deleted by Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (3) Section 27B(3) of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended by deleting paragraph (b) and substituting the following
paragraph:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         173

            “(b) a political donation certificate issued to him or her in
                  respect of the election; and”.

 (4) Section 29(1) of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended by deleting the words “issued by the Registrar of Political
Donations”.

 (5) Section 31(2) of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following
paragraph:

            “(a) the person is issued a political donation certificate in
                  respect of that election;”.

 (6) Section 61(1) of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (e), and
            by inserting immediately thereafter the following
            paragraph:

                       “(ea) being a candidate, knowingly makes the
                               declaration required by section 73A
                               falsely; or”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “paragraph (f)” in paragraph (v) and
            substituting the words “paragraph (ea) or (f)”.

 (7) The Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 73, the following section:

      “Post‑election declaration by candidates

       73A.—(1) Every candidate at an election must give to the
      Returning Officer a declaration that is in accordance with
      subsection (2), not later than the 7th day after the day that the
      result of the election is published under section 33(1)(b) or 51, as
      the case may be.

       (2) The declaration required by subsection (1) to be given by a
      candidate must be made by the candidate, be in the prescribed
      form, and further state that, to the best of the knowledge and
      belief of the candidate —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
174  NO. 28 OF 2021

            (a) no foreigner has been authorised by the candidate or
                 his or her election agent under section 83(2) to
                 conduct any election activity for the purpose of
                 procuring the electoral success at that election of the
                 candidate or the group of candidates of whom the
                 candidate is part;

            (b) the conduct of any election activity by the candidate
                 or his or her election agent for the purpose of
                 procuring the electoral success at that election of
                 the candidate, or the group of candidates of whom the
                 candidate is part, was not undertaken by the candidate
                 or election agent pursuant to any impermissible
                 arrangement; and

            (c) the conduct of any election activity for the purpose of
                 procuring the electoral success at that election of the
                 candidate, or the group of candidates of whom the
                 candidate is part, was not authorised by the candidate
                 or the candidate’s election agent, pursuant to any
                 impermissible arrangement.

      (3) For the purposes of this section, any declaration that is
     required by subsection (1) to be given to the Returning Officer
     must not be regarded as so given unless the declaration is
     actually received by the Returning Officer.

      (4) Where any declaration which is required by subsection (1)
     to be given to the Returning Officer is not so given within the
     time delimited under subsection (1), the candidate shall be guilty
     of an illegal practice; and the provisions of this subsection are in
     addition to and not in derogation of section 61.

      (5) In addition, where any declaration which is required by
     subsection (1) to be given to the Returning Officer is not so
     given within the time delimited under subsection (1), the
     candidate must not, after the expiry of that time, sit or vote in
     Parliament as a Member until either —

            (a) the declaration has been given; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         175

             (b) the date of the allowance of an authorised excuse
                  under section 87A for failing to give the declaration.

       (6) A candidate who sits or votes in contravention of
      subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
      on conviction to a penalty of $500 for every day on which he or
      she so sits or votes.

       (7) In this section —

            “arrangement” includes a contract, an agreement,
               understanding or other arrangement of any kind,
               whether written or unwritten;

            “foreign principal” has the meaning given by section 4 of
               the Foreign Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021;

            “foreigner” means an individual who is not a citizen of
               Singapore;

            “impermissible arrangement”, in relation to a candidate or
               his or her election agent, means an arrangement —

                    (a) to which the candidate or election agent is party;
                         and

                    (b) under which the candidate or election agent (as
                         the case may be) is accustomed or under an
                         obligation (whether formal or informal) to
                         engage in conduct in accordance with the
                         directions, instructions or wishes of a foreign
                         principal or, where the foreign principal is a
                         corporation, of the directors of the foreign
                         principal.”.

 (8) Section 74 of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is amended
by deleting subsection (5) and substituting the following subsection:

       “(5) For the purposes of this section, “donation” has the
      meaning given by the definition of “political donation” in
      section 51 of the Foreign Interference (Countermeasures)
      Act 2021, and a donation is accepted by a candidate or an
      election agent if it is accepted within the meaning of that Act.”.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
176  NO. 28 OF 2021

 (9) The Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 87, the following section:

      “Authorised excuse for non‑compliance with section 73A

       87A.—(1) Where —

             (a) any declaration which is required by section 73A(1)
                  to be given by a candidate at an election in an electoral
                  division to the Returning Officer is not so given
                  within the time delimited under that section, or being
                  given contains a false statement; and

             (b) the candidate applies to an Election Judge or a Judge
                  sitting in the General Division of the High Court and
                  shows that the failure to give the declaration or the
                  false statement in the declaration (as the case may be)
                  has arisen by reason of the candidate’s illness, or by
                  reason of inadvertence or of any reasonable cause of a
                  like nature, and not by reason of any want of good
                  faith on the part of the candidate,

      the Judge may, after notice of the application, and on production
      of evidence of the grounds stated in the application, and of the
      good faith of the application, and otherwise, as to the Judge
      seems fit, and after giving the other candidates, the Returning
      Officer and any elector within the electoral division an
      opportunity of being heard, make such order for allowing an
      authorised excuse for the failure to give that declaration or for
      the false statement in that declaration (as the case may be) as the
      Judge considers just.

       (2) The order under subsection (1) may make the allowance
      conditional upon the making of the declaration in a modified
      form or within an extended time, and upon the compliance with
      such other terms as to the Election Judge or a Judge sitting in the
      General Division of the High Court (as the case may be) seems
      best calculated for carrying into effect the objects of this Act.

       (3) An order under subsection (1) allowing an authorised
      excuse relieves the candidate applying for the order from any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         177

      liability or consequences under this Act in respect of the matter
      excused by the order.

       (4) Where it is proved by the candidate to the Election Judge or
      a Judge sitting in the General Division of the High Court (as the
      case may be) that —

             (a) any act or omission of the candidate’s election agent
                  in relation to the conduct of election activity for the
                  purpose of procuring the electoral success of the
                  candidate, or the group of candidates of whom the
                  candidate is part, was without the sanction or
                  connivance of the candidate; and

             (b) the candidate took all reasonable steps for preventing
                  the act or omission,

      the Judge must relieve the candidate from the consequences of
      the act or omission on the part of the candidate’s election agent.

       (5) The date of an order under subsection (1) or, if conditions
      and terms are to be complied with, the date at which the
      applicant fully complies with them is referred to in this Act as
      the date of the allowance of the excuse.”.

 (10) Section 97 of the Parliamentary Elections Act 1954 is
amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (a) of
            subsection (3), the following paragraph:

                       “(aa) at any time before the end of 21 days after
                               the date of the publication of the result of
                               the election in the Gazette, as to the
                               declaration required by section 73A from
                               the Member whose election is
                               questioned;”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “respecting
            election expenses” in subsection (5), the words “or make
            and give the declaration required by section 73A”; and

       (c) by deleting the words “subsection (3)” in subsection (5)
            and substituting the words “subsection (3)(a) or the date of

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
178  NO. 28 OF 2021

            the publication of the results of the election in the Gazette
            mentioned in subsection (3)(aa), as the case may be”.

 (11) Form 8 in the First Schedule to the Parliamentary Elections
Act 1954 is amended by deleting sub‑paragraph (d) and substituting
the following sub‑paragraph:

          “(d) a political donation certificate issued to the nominee in respect of

                  the election;”.

 (12) Form 19 in the First Schedule to the Parliamentary Elections
Act 1954 is amended —

       (a) by deleting footnote 1 in Section C and substituting the
            following footnote:

                     “ 1 Donations that need not be recorded in a donation report under the Foreign
                           Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021 where a candidate is concerned.”;

       (b) by deleting footnote 5 in Section C and substituting the
            following footnote:

                     “ 5 The expression “donation” has the meaning given by the definition of
                           “political donation” in section 51 of the Foreign Interference
                           (Countermeasures) Act 2021, and “value” in relation to a donation has
                           the meaning given by sections 15 and 51 of that Act where a candidate is
                           concerned.”;

       (c) by deleting footnote 4 in subsections (1) and (2) of
            Section D and substituting in each case the following
            footnote:

                     “ 4 The expression “donation” has the meaning given by the definition of
                           “political donation” in section 51 of the Foreign Interference
                           (Countermeasures) Act 2021, and “value” in relation to a donation has
                           the meaning given by sections 15 and 51 of that Act where a candidate is
                           concerned.”; and

       (d) by deleting the words “Political Donations Act 2000”
            wherever they appear in Section D (except footnotes 4) and
            substituting in each case the words “Foreign Interference
            (Countermeasures) Act 2021”.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         179

Amendment of Presidential Elections Act 1991

 125.—(1) Section 2(1) of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 is
amended by inserting, immediately after the definition of “overseas
polling station”, the following definition:

      “ “political donation certificate” means a political donation
           certificate issued under section 63(3) of the Foreign
           Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021 in respect of an
           election;”.

 (2) Section 9(4) of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 is amended
by deleting paragraph (a) and substituting the following paragraph:

            “(a) a political donation certificate issued to him or her in
                  respect of that election;”.

 (3) Section 11(1) of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 is amended
by deleting the words “issued by the Registrar of Political
Donations”.

 (4) Section 42(1) of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 is
amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (e), and
            by inserting immediately thereafter the following
            paragraph:

                       “(ea) being a candidate, knowingly makes the
                               declaration required by section 55A
                               falsely; or”; and

       (b) by deleting the words “paragraph (f)” in paragraph (v) and
            substituting the words “paragraph (ea) or (f)”.

 (5) The Presidential Elections Act 1991 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 55, the following section:

      “Post‑election declaration by candidates

       55A.—(1) Every candidate at an election must give to the
      Returning Officer a declaration that is in accordance with
      subsection (2), not later than the 7th day after the day that the
      result of the election is published under section 15(1)(b) or 34, as
      the case may be.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
180  NO. 28 OF 2021

      (2) The declaration required by subsection (1) to be given by a
     candidate must be made by the candidate, be in the prescribed
     form, and further state that, to the best of the knowledge and
     belief of the candidate —

            (a) no foreigner has been authorised by the candidate or
                 his or her election agent under section 65(2) to
                 conduct any election activity for the purpose of
                 procuring the electoral success at that election of the
                 candidate;

            (b) the conduct of any election activity by the candidate
                 or his or her election agent for the purpose of
                 procuring the electoral success at that election of
                 the candidate, was not undertaken by the candidate or
                 election agent pursuant to any impermissible
                 arrangement; and

            (c) the conduct of any election activity for the purpose of
                 procuring the electoral success at that election of the
                 candidate, was not authorised by the candidate or his
                 or her election agent, pursuant to any impermissible
                 arrangement.

      (3) For the purposes of this section, any declaration that is
     required by subsection (1) to be given to the Returning Officer
     must not be regarded as so given unless the declaration is
     actually received by the Returning Officer.

      (4) Where any declaration which is required by subsection (1)
     to be given to the Returning Officer is not so given within the
     time delimited under subsection (1), the candidate shall be guilty
     of an illegal practice; and the provisions of this subsection are in
     addition to and not in derogation of section 42.

      (5) In this section —

           “arrangement” includes a contract, an agreement,
              understanding or other arrangement of any kind,
              whether written or unwritten;

           “foreign principal” has the meaning given by section 4 of
              the Foreign Interference (Countermeasures) Act 2021;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         181

            “foreigner” means an individual who is not a citizen of
               Singapore;

            “impermissible arrangement”, in relation to a candidate or
               his or her election agent, means an arrangement —

                    (a) to which the candidate or election agent is party;
                         and

                    (b) under which the candidate or election agent (as
                         the case may be) is accustomed or under an
                         obligation (whether formal or informal) to
                         engage in conduct in accordance with the
                         directions, instructions or wishes of a foreign
                         principal or, where the foreign principal is a
                         corporation, of the directors of the foreign
                         principal.”.

 (6) Section 56 of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 is amended by
deleting subsection (4) and substituting the following subsection:

       “(4) For the purposes of this section, “donation” has the
      meaning given by the definition of “political donation” in
      section 51 of the Foreign Interference (Countermeasures)
      Act 2021, and a donation is accepted by a candidate or an
      election agent if it is accepted within the meaning of that Act.”.

 (7) The Presidential Elections Act 1991 is amended by inserting,
immediately after section 69, the following section:

      “Authorised excuse for non‑compliance with section 55A

       69A.—(1) Where —

             (a) any declaration which is required by section 55A(1)
                  to be given by a candidate at an election in an electoral
                  division to the Returning Officer is not so given
                  within the time delimited under that section, or being
                  given contains a false statement; and

             (b) the candidate applies to an Election Judge or a Judge
                  sitting in the General Division of the High Court and
                  shows that the failure to give the declaration or the
                  false statement in the declaration (as the case may be)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
182  NO. 28 OF 2021

                 has arisen by reason of the candidate’s illness, or by
                 reason of inadvertence or of any reasonable cause of a
                 like nature, and not by reason of any want of good
                 faith on the part of the candidate,

     the Judge may, after notice of the application, and on production
     of evidence of the grounds stated in the application, and of the
     good faith of the application, and otherwise, as to the Judge
     seems fit, and after giving the other candidates, the Returning
     Officer and any elector within the electoral division an
     opportunity of being heard, make such order for allowing an
     authorised excuse for the failure to give that declaration or for
     the false statement in that declaration (as the case may be) as the
     Judge considers just.

      (2) The order under subsection (1) may make the allowance
     conditional upon the making of the declaration in a modified
     form or within an extended time, and upon the compliance with
     such other terms as to the Election Judge or a Judge sitting in the
     General Division of the High Court (as the case may be) seems
     best calculated for carrying into effect the objects of this Act.

      (3) An order under subsection (1) allowing an authorised
     excuse relieves the candidate applying for the order from any
     liability or consequences under this Act in respect of the matter
     excused by the order.

      (4) Where it is proved by the candidate to the Election Judge or
     a Judge sitting in the General Division of the High Court (as the
     case may be) that —

            (a) any act or omission of the candidate’s election agent
                 in relation to the conduct of election activity for the
                 purpose of procuring the electoral success of the
                 candidate, or the group of candidates of whom the
                 candidate is part, was without the sanction or
                 connivance of the candidate; and

            (b) the candidate took all reasonable means for
                 preventing the act or omission,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         183

      the Judge must relieve the candidate from the consequences of
      the act or omission on the part of the candidate’s election agent.

       (5) The date of an order under subsection (1) or, if conditions
      and terms are to be complied with, the date at which the
      applicant fully complies with them is referred to in this Act as
      the date of the allowance of the excuse.”.

 (8) Section 77 of the Presidential Elections Act 1991 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (a) of
            subsection (3), the following paragraph:

                       “(aa) at any time before the end of 21 days after
                               the date of the publication of the result of
                               the election in the Gazette, as to the
                               declaration required by section 55A from
                               the candidate whose election is
                               questioned;”;

       (b) by inserting, immediately after the words “respecting
            election expenses” in subsection (5), the words “or make
            and give the declaration required by section 55A”; and

       (c) by deleting the words “subsection (3)” in subsection (5)
            and substituting the words “subsection (3)(a) or the date of
            the publication of the results of the election in the Gazette
            mentioned in subsection (3)(aa), as the case may be”.

Amendment of Societies Act 1966

 126. The Societies Act 1966 is amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately before the words “includes any”
            in the definition of “political association” in section 2, the
            words “means a political party and”;

       (b) by deleting the words “the national interest” in
            section 4(2)(d) and substituting the words “Singapore’s
            national security or interest”;

       (c) by inserting, immediately after the words “concerning the
            society” in section 10(1), the words “(such as but not
            limited to the patron of the society and every person

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
184  NO. 28 OF 2021

            managing or assisting in the management, of that society in
            Singapore)”;

       (d) by inserting, immediately after the words “in Singapore” in
            section 24(1)(a), the words “or against Singapore’s
            national security or interest”;

       (e) by deleting the words “the national interest” in
            section 24(1)(e) and substituting the words “Singapore’s
            national security or interest”; and

        (f) by inserting, immediately after subsection (1) of
            section 24, the following subsection:

                    “(1A) For the purpose of subsection (1)(a), a
                  certificate issued by the Minister charged with the
                  responsibility for internal security stating that the
                  Minister is satisfied that the society referred to in the
                  certificate is being used for purposes against
                  Singapore’s national security or interest is
                  conclusive evidence that the society is being used
                  for such purposes.”.

Saving and transitional provisions

 127.—(1) Despite section 123, every organisation that is,
immediately before the appointed day, declared, by order in the
Gazette, as a political association under the repealed Act is
deemed —

       (a) as designated, with effect from the appointed day, by the
            competent authority under section 47(1) as a Part 4
            politically significant entity under this Act; and

       (b) to be given, with effect from the appointed day, by the
            competent authority a directive each under sections 67, 68
            and 69, respectively.

 (2) Despite section 123, section 60(4) does not apply to any
political donation received by a political association before the
appointed day and where the grace period mentioned in section 60(3)
in respect of that donation is still current immediately before that

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE

(COUNTERMEASURES)                                         185

appointed day; and Part II of the repealed Act continues to apply with
respect to that donation as if this Act were not enacted.

 (3) Despite anything in Part 5, where —

       (a) the financial year of a political association is not a calendar
            year;

       (b) Part 5 applies to the political association because of
            subsection (1) only; and

       (c) Part 5 comes into force at any time before the end of the
            financial year of the political association,

sections 12 and 13 of the repealed Act continue to apply with respect
to the donation report and declarations required by the repealed Act
for that financial year as if this Act were not enacted.

 (4) Despite section 123, sections 76 and 85 do not apply to or in
relation to any political donation —

       (a) comprising the provision of voluntary labour by an
            individual who is not a citizen of Singapore or who is
            below 21 years of age; and

       (b) that is received during any period before that day by a
            politically significant person subject to the repealed Act,

and the repealed Act as in force immediately before the appointed day
continues to apply as if it had not been repealed with respect to that
political donation.

 (5) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of any
provision of this Act, the Minister may, by regulations, prescribe
other provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of that provision as that Minister may consider necessary
or expedient.

 (6) In this section —

      “appointed day” means the date of commencement of
         section 123;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
186  NO. 28 OF 2021

     “political association” means —

             (a) a political party or an organisation which has as one
                  of its objects or activities the promotion or procuring
                  of the election to Parliament or to the office of
                  President of a candidate or candidates endorsed by
                  the organisation; or

             (b) an organisation (not being a branch of any
                  organisation) whose objects or activities relate
                  wholly or mainly to politics in Singapore and
                  which, immediately before the appointed day, was
                  declared, by order in the Gazette, to be a political
                  association for the purposes of the repealed Act.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 8/12/2025
