THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                PARKS AND TREES ACT 2005

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Parks and Trees Act 2005

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Application of Act to Government
     2.
     3.

                                       PART 2

                         ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

4. Appointment of Commissioner of Parks and Recreation and
       other officers

5. Officers deemed to be public servants
6. Identification card to be produced
6A. Management body

                                        PART 3

              NATIONAL PARKS AND NATURE RESERVES

 7. Establishment of national parks and nature reserves
 8. Restricted activities in respect of trees, plants, etc., in national

         parks and nature reserves
 9. Restricted activities in respect of animals, etc., in national parks

         and nature reserves
10. Destruction, damage, etc., of notices, boundary marks, etc.
11. Reinstatement notices as regards national parks and nature

         reserves
12. Approval for restricted activities in national parks and nature

         reserves

                                                   1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                    2

          PART 4

          CONSERVATION OF TREES AND PLANTS

          Division 1 — Tree conservation areas and vacant lands

Section   Tree conservation areas
   13.    No cutting or damaging of tree having girth of more than
   14.    one metre
          Tree conservation notice
   15.

          Division 2 — Heritage road green buffers

16. Heritage road green buffers
17. Maintenance of heritage road green buffers
18. No cutting or damaging of tree or plant in heritage road green

         buffer
19. Heritage road green buffers not to be interfered with

          Division 3 — Approvals, reinstatement notices and evidence

20. Application for approval to cut trees and plants, etc.
21. Reinstatement notices as regards tree conservation areas, vacant

         lands and heritage road green buffers

                                        PART 5

                PLANTING AREAS, PUBLIC OPEN SPACES
                              AND GREEN VERGES

                 Division 1 — Planting areas and streetscapes

22. Application
23. Planting areas
24. Provision of planting areas
25. Occupier’s duty to maintain planting areas
26. Planting areas not to be interfered with
27. Notice to plant or replant trees and plants, etc.

             Division 2 — Open spaces set aside as public parks

28. Provision of open spaces as public parks
29. Vesting of open space set aside as public park in Government

                            Division 3 — Green verges

30. Provision of green verges of public streets
31. Street works affecting green verges

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
3        Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

         Division 4 — Specifications and approvals

Section  Approvals required
         Compliance certificates
   32.   Specifications
   33.   Duties of qualified person
   34.   Liabilities related to plans, certificates and documents
   35.
   36.

                                           PART 6

                             PREVENTION OF DANGERS

   37. Trees and plants obstructing traffic
   37A. Power to enter and inspect premises for dangerous trees
   38. Imminently dangerous trees or plants

                                           PART 7

                            POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

   39. Power to require information in respect of contraventions
   40. Power of entry and to demand particulars of identity
   41. Power to demand evidence of identity and power of arrest in

            certain circumstances
   41A. Power to investigate offences under Act
   42. Enforcement powers in national parks, nature reserves and

            public parks
   42A. Power to move vehicles and demolish structures, etc.
   42B. Immediate removal of dangerous or obstructing vehicles, etc., in

            national park, nature reserve or public park
   42C. Immediate demolition, etc., of dangerous structure, etc., in

            public park

                                           PART 8

                 OFFENCES, PENALTIES AND PROCEEDINGS

   43. Penalty for obstructing Commissioner, etc.
   44. Parking of vehicles on green verges and turfed open spaces

            prohibited
   45. Liability of owner, etc., of vehicle for offence committed
   46. Default in compliance with notice or condition
   46A. Disposal of moved vehicles, etc.
   47. Recovery of costs

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                         4

Section   Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
   48.    determined by Magistrate’s Court or District Court
          Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   49.    Jurisdiction of court
   50.    Composition of offences
   51.    Prosecutions
   52.    Evidence
   53.    Presumptions and defences
   54.

          PART 9

          GENERAL

55.       Act not to affect liability in tort of occupier
56.       Appeal to Minister
57.       Payment to Board of fees, charges, etc.
58.       Exemption
59.       Service of documents
59A.      Use of electronic service for making applications in connection
          with building works
60.       Inaccuracies in document
61.       Protection from liability
62.       Amendment of Schedule
63.       Regulations
64.       Transitional provisions
65.       References in other written laws
          The Schedule — Areas designated as national parks and nature

                                reserves

An Act to provide for the planting, maintenance and conservation of
  trees and plants within national parks, nature reserves, tree
  conservation areas, heritage road green buffers and other
  specified areas, and for matters connected therewith.

                                                               [1 August 2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
5            Parks and Trees Act 2005                        2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

   1. This Act is the Parks and Trees Act 2005.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “animal” means any mammal (other than man), bird, reptile,
         amphibian, fish (including shellfish), insect or any other
         living creature, vertebrate or invertebrate, and includes any
         egg or young thereof;

      “authorised officer” means any person appointed under
         section 4(3);

      “Board” means the National Parks Board established under the
         National Parks Board Act 1996;

      “boat” means any launch, vessel or floating craft used in
         navigation by water, however propelled or moved;

      “bridge” includes any flyover, overpass and viaduct;

      “building” has the meaning given by the Building Control
         Act 1989;

      “building works” means any of the following works:

              (a) the erection, alteration, restoration, addition or
                   extension of a building or part thereof;

              (b) the demolition or dismantling of a building or part
                   thereof with a view to rebuilding;

              (c) any site clearance, earth-moving, excavation,
                   tunnelling, boring or laying of foundations;

              (d) any site restoration or provision of roadways and
                   other access works; and

              (e) any other kind of building operation which forms part
                   of, is preparatory to, is for rendering complete or is

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  6

          otherwise connected with any works mentioned in
          paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d);

“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Parks and
   Recreation appointed under section 4(1);

“competent authority” means the authority appointed under
   section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 to be responsible for the
   operation of Part 3 of that Act;

“cut”, in relation to a tree or plant, means felling or lopping a tree
   or plant;

“damage”, in relation to a tree or plant, includes —

          (a) poisoning the tree or plant through —

          (i) applying any herbicide or other plant toxic
              chemical to it; or

          (ii) spilling (including washing off or directing
               water contaminated by) any oil, petroleum,
               paint, cement, mortar or the like onto the root
               zone of the tree or plant;

          (b) ringbarking the tree or plant or scarring its bark when
               operating any machinery, or by affixing any object
               (such as a sign) to it using nails, staples, wires or
               other means;

          (c) using tree climbing spikes on a healthy tree (except
              for the purpose of gaining access to an injured person
              on it) or fastening materials that significantly restrict
              the normal vascular function of the trunk or branches
              of the tree or plant; and

          (d) causing damage to the tree’s or plant’s root zone by
               compaction, excavation or asphyxiation (including
               filling or stockpiling it with materials);

“footway” includes any footpath, verandah-way, open or
   covered walkway, pedestrian mall, plaza, square, and other
   related structures and facilities;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
7  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

   “green verge” means the portion along the centre median or side
      of a public street, or a traffic island within a public street,
      which is provided for the growing of trees or plants;

   “heritage road green buffer” means any area designated by the
      Minister as such under section 16(1);

   “marine park” means any area of the sea or seabed that is set
      aside for conservation of marine organisms and is designated
      in Part 3 of the Schedule;

   “national park” means any area designated for the time being in
      Part 1 of the Schedule;

   “nature reserve” means any area designated for the time being in
      Part 2 of the Schedule;

   “occupier”, in relation to any premises, means —

   (a) the person in actual occupation of the premises
        (whether or not the person is also the owner thereof)
        or, if there is no person in actual occupation, the
        person entitled to possession of the premises; and

   (b) if there is more than one occupier of the premises —
        any one of the occupiers;

   “organism” means —

   (a) a genetic structure that is capable of replicating itself,
        whether that structure comprises all or only part of an
        entity, and whether it comprises all or only part of the
        total genetic structure of an entity; or

   (b) a reproductive cell or developmental stage of an
        entity mentioned in paragraph (a);

   “owner”, in relation to a vehicle, includes —

   (a) every person who is the owner or joint owner or part
        owner of the vehicle and any person who is the hirer
        or has the use of the vehicle under a hire‑purchase
        agreement but not the lessor under any such
        agreement;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  8

          (b) the person in whose name the vehicle is registered,
               except where the person has sold or otherwise
               disposed of the vehicle and has complied with the
               provisions of the rules applicable to the person in
               regard to the sale or disposal; and

          (c) in the case of a vehicle in respect of which a general
              licence is issued under section 28 of the Road Traffic
              Act 1961, the person to whom the general licence is
              issued;

“park ranger” means any person appointed under section 4(6);

“planning permission” has the meaning given by the Planning
   Act 1998;

“plant” means any member of the plantae, protista, monera or
   fungi kingdom, and includes any angiosperm, gymnosperm,
   pteridophyte, bryophyte, algae, lichen or fungus;

“planting area” means any planting area mentioned in
   section 23;

“premises” means —

          (a) any building or land or part thereof; or

          (b) any place (whether enclosed or built on or not) and
               includes any place situated underground or under
               water;

“public park” means any State land, any land belonging to the
   Board or any other land, which is —

          (a) utilised as a public park, marine park, recreation
               ground, playground, garden, public open space, walk,
               park connector or green verge; and

          (b) managed or maintained by the Board or by any
               management body designated under section 6A;

“public street” means any street over which the public has a right
   of way and which has been vested in the Government under
   the Street Works Act 1995 or the repealed Local Government

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
9  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

   Integration Act (Cap. 166, 1985 Revised Edition) or in any
   other manner;

   “qualified person” means a person who is registered as —

   (a) an architect under the Architects Act 1991 and has in
        force a practising certificate issued under that Act; or

   (b) a professional engineer under the Professional
        Engineers Act 1991 and has in force a practising
        certificate issued under that Act;

   “repealed Act” means the Parks and Trees Act (Cap. 216,
      1996 Revised Edition) repealed by this Act;

   “road authority” means the Land Transport Authority of
      Singapore established under section 3 of the Land
      Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

   “street” means —

   (a) any road, bridge, underpass, tunnel, square, footway
        or passage, whether a thoroughfare or not, and
        whether the public has a right of way thereover or
        not;

   (b) the way over any public bridge; or

   (c) any road, footway or passage, open court or open
       alley, used or intended to be used as a means of access
       to 2 or more holdings, whether the public has a right
       of way thereover or not,

   and includes all channels, drains, ditches, reserves and verges
   at the side of any street;

   “street works” includes works of levelling, paving, metalling,
      flagging, kerbing, channelling, draining, lighting, laying of
      cables and mains and other utility services executed in a
      street or part thereof and the reinstatement of a street or part
      thereof;

   “tree” includes a single‑stemmed palm and any part of a tree or
      single‑stemmed palm (including its seedling, sapling or
      reshoot);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  10

“tree conservation area” means any land designated by the
   Minister as such under section 13(1);

“vacant land” means —

          (a) any land upon which no building or other structure
               exists; or

          (b) any land which the Commissioner has reasonable
               grounds to believe is not occupied by anyone,

          and includes any land upon which exists any building or other
          structure which is constructed or used contrary to any written
          law;

“vehicle” means a vehicle whether mechanically propelled or
   otherwise.

                                                                                                    [9/2017]

Application of Act to Government

 3.—(1) This Act binds the Government except that nothing in this
Act renders the Government liable to prosecution for an offence.

 (2) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason that the person is a contractor
engaged to provide services to the Government, or is acting in any
other similar capacity for, or on behalf of, the Government.

                                    PART 2

                      ADMINISTRATION OF ACT

Appointment of Commissioner of Parks and Recreation and
other officers

 4.—(1) The Board is responsible for the administration of this Act,
and to that end, the Board must appoint an officer of the Board to be
the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) The Commissioner is, subject to any general or special
directions of the Board, responsible for the administration of this
Act and may perform such duties as are imposed and may exercise

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
11  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

such powers as are conferred upon the Commissioner by this Act or
any other written law.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (3) The Commissioner may, subject to the directions of the Board,
appoint any of the following persons to be an authorised officer for
the purpose of assisting the Commissioner in administering and
carrying out the provisions of this Act or any other written law which
confers powers on the Commissioner:

    (a) an employee of the Board;

    (b) an employee of another statutory authority;

    (c) a public officer;

       (d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) The Commissioner may delegate the exercise of all or any of the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Commissioner by any
provision of this Act or any other written law (except the power of
delegation conferred by this subsection) to an authorised officer; and
any reference in the provision of this Act or any other written law to
the Commissioner includes a reference to such an authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) Any delegation under subsection (4) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Board may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) The Commissioner may appoint any of the following persons to
be a park ranger who may exercise the powers conferred on a park
ranger under sections 41, 42, 42A and 42B within the national park,
nature reserve or public park and in the circumstances specified in the
Commissioner’s authorisation for the park ranger under
subsection (7):

    (a) a public officer;

    (b) an employee of the Board;

    (c) an employee of a management body designated under
        section 6A;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  12

       (d) a person who holds a security officer’s licence under the
            Private Security Industry Act 2007.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (7) The Commissioner must issue to each park ranger an
authorisation specifying where, or the circumstances in which, the
park ranger may exercise the powers conferred on a park ranger under
sections 41, 42, 42A and 42B.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (8) The powers conferred on a park ranger under sections 41, 42,
42A and 42B must be exercised only to the extent of the authorisation
under subsection (7).

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (9) The Commissioner may, for any reason that appears to the
Commissioner to be sufficient, at any time revoke a person’s
appointment as an authorised officer or a park ranger.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (10) A person who is appointed as an authorised officer under
subsection (3)(d) or a park ranger under subsection (6) does not, by
virtue only of the appointment, become an employee or agent of the
Board.

                                                                                                 [9/2017; 10/2019]

Officers deemed to be public servants

 5. The Commissioner, every authorised officer and park ranger is
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

Identification card to be produced

 6.—(1) The Commissioner or any authorised officer or park ranger,
when exercising any of the powers conferred upon him or her by this
Act must, if not in uniform, declare his or her office and, on demand,
produce such identification card as may be issued to him or her for the
purposes of this Act or any other written law.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
13  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

 (2) It shall not be an offence for any person to refuse to comply with
any request, demand or order made by the Commissioner or any
authorised officer or park ranger not in uniform, who fails to declare
his or her office and refuses to produce his or her identification card
on demand being made by that person.

Management body

 6A. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, designate, for
the purposes of this Act, any body to be a management body for any
State land, land belonging to the Board or any other land that is
managed as a public park on behalf of the Government or the Board,
as the case may be.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

                                    PART 3

          NATIONAL PARKS AND NATURE RESERVES

Establishment of national parks and nature reserves

 7.—(1) The areas designated in Part 1 of the Schedule are set aside
as national parks.

 (2) The areas designated in Part 2 of the Schedule are set aside as
nature reserves.

 (3) National parks and nature reserves are set aside for all or any of
the following purposes:

       (a) the propagation, protection and conservation of the trees,
            plants, animals and other organisms of Singapore, whether
            indigenous or otherwise;

       (b) the study, research and preservation of objects and places
            of aesthetic, historical or scientific interest;

       (c) the study, research and dissemination of knowledge in
            botany, horticulture, biotechnology, or natural and local
            history; and

       (d) recreational and educational use by the public.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  14

Restricted activities in respect of trees, plants, etc., in national
parks and nature reserves

 8.—(1) A person must not, except with the approval of the
Commissioner granted under section 12 and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of such approval, carry out any of the following
activities within any national park or nature reserve:

(a) cut, collect or displace any tree or plant or any part thereof;

(b) affix, set up or erect any sign, shrine, altar, religious object,
     shelter, structure or building;

          (c) clear, break up, dig or cultivate any land;

(d) use or occupy any building, vehicle, boat or other property
     of the Board; or

          (e) wilfully drop or deposit any dirt, sand, earth, gravel, clay,
              loam, manure, refuse, sawdust, shavings, stone, straw or
              any other matter or thing from outside the national park or
              nature reserve.

 (2) A person must not carry out any activity within any national
park or nature reserve which the person knows or ought reasonably to
know causes or may cause alteration, damage or destruction to any
property, tree or plant within the national park or nature reserve.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of $500
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

(4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to —

(a) the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger
     acting in the performance of his or her duty under this Act;

(b) any other officer or employee of the Board acting in the
     performance of his or her duty under this Act or any other
     written law; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
15  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (c) any police officer or workman assisting a person
        mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) to carry out his or her
        duty.

Restricted activities in respect of animals, etc., in national
parks and nature reserves

 9.—(1) A person must not, except with the approval of the
Commissioner granted under section 12 and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of such approval, carry out any of the following
activities within any national park or nature reserve:

       (a) capture, displace or feed any animal;

       (b) disturb or take the nest of any animal;

       (c) collect, remove or wilfully displace any other organism;

       (d) use any animal, firearm, explosive, net, trap, hunting
            device or instrument or means whatever for the purpose of
            capturing any animal; or

       (e) carry or have in the person’s possession any explosive, net,
            trap or hunting device.

 (2) A person must not carry out any activity within any national
park or nature reserve which the person knows or ought reasonably to
know causes or may cause injury to, or the death of, any animal or any
other organism within the national park or nature reserve.

 (3) A person must not, except with the approval of the
Commissioner granted under section 12 and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of such approval —

       (a) bring or release into, or abandon any animal in, or cause
            any animal to be brought or released into, or abandoned in
            a nature reserve;

       (b) release or abandon or cause any animal to be released or
            abandoned into any river, stream, canal or watercourse
            outside a nature reserve that the person knows, or ought
            reasonably to know, flows into or through the nature
            reserve; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  16

       (c) permit any animal belonging to or under the charge of the
            person to stray into a nature reserve.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1), (2) or (3) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine of $500 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

(5) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) do not apply to —

(a) the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger
     acting in the performance of his or her duty under this Act;

(b) any other officer or employee of the Board acting in the
     performance of his or her duty under this Act or any other
     written law; and

          (c) any police officer or workman assisting a person referred
              to in paragraph (a) or (b) to carry out his or her duty.

Destruction, damage, etc., of notices, boundary marks, etc.

 10.—(1) A person must not wilfully or negligently destroy, damage
or deface any object of zoological, botanical, geological,
ethnological, scientific or aesthetic interest within any national
park or nature reserve.

 (2) A person must not —

       (a) destroy, damage, deface, alter or remove any notice or
            other sign erected by or on behalf of the Board within any
            national park or nature reserve; or

       (b) knowingly destroy, damage, deface, alter or remove any
            boundary mark within any national park or nature reserve.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$20,000.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
17  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

(4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to —

    (a) the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger
         acting in the performance of his or her duty under this Act;

    (b) any other officer or employee of the Board acting in the
         performance of his or her duty under this Act or any other
         written law; and

    (c) any police officer or workman assisting a person referred
        to in paragraph (a) or (b) to carry out his or her duty.

Reinstatement notices as regards national parks and nature
reserves

 11.—(1) Where it appears to the Commissioner that there has been
a contravention of any provision of section 8, 9 or 10, the
Commissioner may serve a reinstatement notice on a person who is
carrying out or has carried out any activity in contravention of that
provision requiring the person on whom it is served to carry out such
repairs, work or alteration to any part of the national park or nature
reserve as the Commissioner thinks fit to be carried out in order to
remedy (wholly or in part) the contravention or to remedy any injury
or damage to the national park or nature reserve caused by that
contravention.

 (2) A reinstatement notice mentioned in subsection (1) may, in
particular, require —

       (a) the alteration, demolition or removal of any sign, shrine,
            altar, religious object, shelter, structure or building;

       (b) the carrying out of any building works or other operations;

       (c) the cessation, either wholly or to the extent specified in the
            notice, of any activity;

       (d) the removal from the national park or nature reserve of all
            property, material or animals used in connection with the
            contravention of section 8, 9 or 10, as the case may be; or

       (e) the restoration of any part of the national park or nature
            reserve to its former state or, if such restoration is not
            reasonably practicable or is undesirable, the execution of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  18

          such works as the Commissioner may specify in the notice
          to alleviate the effect of the contravention of section 8, 9
          or 10, as the case may be.

 (3) A reinstatement notice must specify the date on which it is to
take effect and the period (which runs from the date the reinstatement
notice takes effect) within which any step required by the notice must
be taken.

Approval for restricted activities in national parks and nature
reserves

 12.—(1) An application for approval to carry out or cause the
carrying out of any activity referred to in section 8(1) or 9(1) or (3)
must be made to the Commissioner in such form and manner as may
be prescribed.

 (2) The Commissioner may require an applicant to provide the
Commissioner with such further information or documents as the
Commissioner considers necessary in relation to the application for
approval.

 (3) The Commissioner may, upon an application by any person for
approval to carry out or cause the carrying out of any activity referred
to in section 8(1) or 9(1) or (3) —

       (a) refuse to grant approval under this section; or

       (b) grant approval under this section unconditionally or
            subject to such conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (4) The Commissioner may, at any time, by written notice revoke
any approval granted under this section if he or she is satisfied —

       (a) that any information given in the application for the
            approval or any document submitted to the Commissioner
            in respect of the application is false in a material particular;
            or

       (b) that the person has failed to comply with any condition
            imposed under subsection (3)(b).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
19  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    CONSERVATION OF TREES AND PLANTS

                                                              [9/2017]

       Division 1 — Tree conservation areas and vacant lands

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Tree conservation areas

 13.—(1) If, after consulting the Board, it appears to the Minister
expedient in the interests of amenity to make provision for the
conservation of trees in any geographical area of Singapore, the
Minister may, by order in the Gazette, designate any geographical
area in Singapore (outside a national park or nature reserve) as a tree
conservation area.

 (2) A copy of any map of a tree conservation area published in the
Gazette, being a copy purporting to be certified by the Commissioner
as being a true copy of the map so published, is admissible in any
legal proceedings and is evidence of the matters contained in the map.

No cutting or damaging of tree having girth of more than
one metre

 14.—(1) Subject to subsection (6), a person must not, except with
the approval of the Commissioner under section 20 and in accordance
with the terms and conditions of such approval, cut any tree with a
girth exceeding one metre growing on —

       (a) any tree conservation area; or

       (b) any vacant land (whether within or outside a tree
            conservation area).

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or damages any tree
mentioned in that subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

 (3) In determining the amount of fine to be imposed on a person
convicted of an offence under subsection (2), the court is to, in
particular, have regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or
appears likely to accrue to the person in consequence of the offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  20

 (4) For the purposes of this section, the girth of a tree must be
measured in the prescribed manner.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (5) Where in any proceedings for an offence under this section, a
question arises as to whether the girth of a tree exceeds or does not
exceed one metre, a certificate purporting to be signed by the
Commissioner or an authorised officer certifying the girth of the tree
is admissible as prima facie evidence of the matters stated therein and
of the signature of the Commissioner or authorised officer, as the case
may be.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (6) No approval mentioned in subsection (1) is required where the
condition of the tree constitutes an immediate threat to life or
property.

Tree conservation notice

 15.—(1) If it appears to the Commissioner necessary to make
provision for the maintenance or conservation of any tree with a girth
exceeding one metre growing —

       (a) within any tree conservation area; or

       (b) on any vacant land (whether within or outside a tree
            conservation area),

or a group of such trees, the Commissioner may serve a tree
conservation notice with respect to such tree or group of trees
addressed to —

       (c) the occupier of the premises or land on which the tree or
            group of trees is growing; or

       (d) any person carrying out or intending to carry out any
            building works, whether on the premises or within its
            vicinity which, in the Commissioner’s opinion, causes or is
            likely to cause damage to the tree or group of trees.

 (2) A tree conservation notice under subsection (1) may, in
particular, require the occupier or person mentioned in that
subsection —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
21  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) to cease or refrain from, either wholly or to the extent
         specified in the tree conservation notice, any activity on the
         premises concerned;

    (b) to alter, demolish or remove any property or material from
         the premises concerned, or any sign, structure or building
         the occupier or person has erected or caused to be erected
         thereon; or

    (c) to take such other measures as the Commissioner
        reasonably considers necessary to maintain or conserve
        the tree or group of trees concerned.

 (3) Every tree conservation notice under subsection (1) must
specify —

    (a) the tree or group of trees covered by the notice, by
         reference to the type, species, size, location and such other
         particulars of the tree or group of trees;

    (b) the date on which it is to take effect; and

    (c) the period (which runs from the date the tree conservation
        notice takes effect) within which any step required by the
        notice must be taken.

 (4) The Commissioner may, at any time, revoke any tree
conservation notice made under this section.

               Division 2 — Heritage road green buffers

Heritage road green buffers

 16.—(1) If, after consulting the Board, it appears to the Minister
expedient to conserve the flora or vegetation in any area of Singapore
(not within any national park or nature reserve) as important elements
of the surrounding streetscape or landscape, the Minister may, by
order in the Gazette, designate —

       (a) any green verge (whether within or outside a tree
            conservation area); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  22

(b) any other area located along or on land fronting, adjoining
     or abutting any street (whether within or outside a tree
     conservation area),

as a heritage road green buffer.

 (2) A copy of any map of a heritage road green buffer published in
the Gazette, being a copy purporting to be certified by the
Commissioner as being a true copy of the map so published, is
admissible in any legal proceedings and is evidence of the matters
contained in the map.

Maintenance of heritage road green buffers

 17.—(1) It is the function and duty of the Board to manage and
maintain all heritage road green buffers and carry out all acts
necessary thereto.

 (2) For the purpose of managing and maintaining heritage road
green buffers, the Commissioner or any officer, employee of or other
person authorised in writing by the Board has the right, at any
reasonable time, to enter upon any heritage road green buffer that is
State land and do all things as are reasonably necessary for the
management and maintenance of the heritage road green buffer.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), where a heritage road green buffer, or
any part of it, lies within any premises other than State land, the
Commissioner or any officer, employee of or other person authorised
in writing by the Board has the right, at any reasonable time, to enter
upon the heritage road green buffer or any part thereof for the purpose
of —

       (a) ascertaining whether any of the functions conferred by this
            section on the Board should or may be exercised, including
            taking photographs of the premises and any property or
            material found thereon and such other steps as he or she
            may consider necessary without involving any search or
            seizure of any premises, thing or person; and

       (b) taking any action or carrying out any work that is
            reasonably necessary for the management and
            maintenance of the heritage road green buffer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
23  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) The right to enter upon any premises under subsection (3) may
be exercised if, and only if, the Commissioner or any officer,
employee of or other person authorised in writing by the Board has
given notice of his or her intention to perform the Board’s function
and discharge its duty under this section to the occupier of the
premises or any person having any estate, right, share or interest in
the premises.

 (5) A notice under subsection (4) must be in writing and is deemed
to be given to and received by an occupier if it is affixed to a
conspicuous part of the premises to be entered.

No cutting or damaging of tree or plant in heritage road green
buffer

 18.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), a person must not, except with
the approval of the Commissioner granted under section 20 and in
accordance with the terms and conditions of such approval, cut any
tree or plant within a heritage road green buffer.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or damages any tree or
plant within a heritage road green buffer shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000.

 (3) In determining the amount of fine to be imposed on a person
convicted of an offence under subsection (2), the court is to, in
particular, have regard to any financial benefit which has accrued or
appears likely to accrue to the person in consequence of the offence.

 (4) No approval mentioned in subsection (1) is required where —

       (a) the tree or plant is determined by the Commissioner as
            dying or dead; or

       (b) the condition of the tree or plant constitutes an immediate
            threat to life or property.

Heritage road green buffers not to be interfered with

 19.—(1) Without affecting section 18, a person (other than the road
authority) must not, except with the approval of the Commissioner
granted under section 20 and in accordance with the terms and
conditions of such approval —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  24

(a) alter, close up or remove any heritage road green buffer;

(b) erect or place any structure or object in, above, across or
     under any heritage road green buffer; or

          (c) erect, construct or lay within any heritage road green buffer
              any fence, retaining wall, foundation, manhole, pipe, cable,
              mains or any obstruction or structure (whether temporary
              or permanent).

 (2) A person who, without reasonable cause, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine of $500 for every day or part of a
day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) The road authority must, before carrying out within a heritage
road green buffer any work or activity in the performance of any
function or discharge of any duty conferred on the road authority by
or under any written law, consult the Board in respect thereof.

    Division 3 — Approvals, reinstatement notices and evidence

Application for approval to cut trees and plants, etc.

 20.—(1) An application for an approval to carry out or cause the
carrying out of any activity mentioned in section 14(1), 18(1) or 19(1)
must be —

       (a) made to the Commissioner in such manner as may be
            prescribed; and

       (b) accompanied by such non-refundable application fee as
            may be prescribed.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) An application for an approval to carry out or cause to be carried
out any activity referred to in section 14(1) or 18(1) may be made by a
person having such estate or interest in the premises on which the tree
or plant is growing as would enable the person to cut the tree or plant.

 (3) The Commissioner may require an applicant to provide the
Commissioner with such further information or documents as the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
25  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

Commissioner considers necessary in relation to the application for
approval.

 (4) The Commissioner may, upon an application by any person for
approval to carry out or cause to be carried out any activity referred to
in section 14(1), 18(1) or 19(1) —

    (a) refuse to grant approval under this section; or

    (b) grant approval under this section unconditionally or
         subject to such conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (5) The Commissioner may, at any time, by written notice revoke
any approval granted under this section if he or she is satisfied —

    (a) that any information given in the application for the
         approval or any document submitted to the Commissioner
         in respect of the application is false in a material particular;
         or

    (b) that the person has failed to comply with any condition
         imposed under subsection (4)(b).

 (6) In determining whether to grant an approval under this section,
the Commissioner may have regard to the following matters:

    (a) the visibility and contribution of the tree or plant in the
         surrounding landscape or streetscape;

    (b) the type and rarity of the species of tree or plant;

    (c) the number of trees or plants in the vicinity;

    (d) any heritage significance of the tree or plant;

    (e) whether the tree or plant may become dangerous or
        damage property or utility services;

    (f) soil conservation and erosion issues.

                                                              [9/2017]

Reinstatement notices as regards tree conservation areas,
vacant lands and heritage road green buffers

 21.—(1) Where it appears to the Commissioner that there has been
a contravention of section 14(1) or (2), 18(1) or (2) or 19(1), the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  26

Commissioner may serve a reinstatement notice on all or any of the
following persons:

(a) any person who appears to the Commissioner to have been
     responsible for or have participated in anything done in
     contravention of any of those provisions; or

       (b) any occupier of the premises on which anything is done in
            contravention of any of those provisions.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) A reinstatement notice under subsection (1) requires the person
upon whom it is served to remedy (wholly or in part) the
contravention or to remedy any injury or damage to any tree
mentioned in section 14(1) or the heritage road green buffer
mentioned in section 19(1) arising from that contravention and
may, in particular, require that person —

(a) to cease or refrain from, either wholly or to the extent
     specified in the notice, any activity on the premises
     concerned;

(b) to replant or restore any tree cut or damaged in
     contravention of section 14(1) or (2), or, if such
     replanting or restoration is not reasonably practicable or
     is undesirable, to execute such works as the Commissioner
     may specify in the notice to alleviate the effect of the
     contravention, including planting other trees or plants and
     taking measures for their maintenance;

          (c) to alter, demolish or remove any property or material from
              the premises concerned, or any structure, object, fence,
              retaining wall, foundation, manhole, pipe, cable, mains or
              any obstruction or structure (whether temporary or
              permanent) that the person has erected or caused to be
              erected thereon in contravention of section 19(1);

(d) to restore any part of the heritage road green buffer to its
     former state or, if such restoration is not reasonably
     practicable or is undesirable, to execute such works as the
     Commissioner may specify in the notice to alleviate the
     effect of the contravention of section 18(1) or (2) or 19(1)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
27  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (as the case may be) including planting such trees or plants
    and taking measures for their maintenance; or

       (e) to take such other measures which the Commissioner
            reasonably considers necessary for the purposes of
            paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d).

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (3) A reinstatement notice under this section must specify the date
on which it is to take effect and the period (which runs from the date
the reinstatement notice takes effect) within which any step required
by the notice must be taken.

                                    PART 5

            PLANTING AREAS, PUBLIC OPEN SPACES
                          AND GREEN VERGES

             Division 1 — Planting areas and streetscapes

Application

 22. Unless otherwise expressly provided, this Division applies only
to premises on which any building works are or are to be carried
out —

       (a) the building plans of which require the approval of the
            Commissioner of Building Control under the Building
            Control Act 1989; and

       (b) in respect of which planning permission is granted on or
            after 1 August 2005.

Planting areas

 23.—(1) All premises mentioned in section 22 must have a planting
area that conforms with the prescribed dimensions or those
dimensions as modified under subsection (6).

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) Without prejudice to subsection (1), all premises mentioned in
section 22, and such other premises as may be prescribed under
subsection (3), must be provided with such other planting areas

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  28

within the premises as the Minister may, by notification in the
Gazette, prescribe under subsection (3).

 (3) The Minister may, for the purpose of enhancing greenery and
promoting the use of trees and plants as important elements of
streetscapes and landscapes, by notification in the Gazette, prescribe
different dimensions (including the location and site specifications)
of planting areas for different classes or descriptions of premises,
whether or not the premises are those mentioned in section 22.

 (4) All planting areas must be made up in accordance with the
specifications of the Commissioner.

 (5) Every notification made under subsection (3) must be presented
to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

 (6) The Commissioner may, in any particular case, modify or
waive, subject to such terms and conditions as the Commissioner may
impose, the prescribed dimensions of a planting area.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Provision of planting areas

 24.—(1) A person must not, except with the approval of the
Commissioner granted under section 32 in respect of the planting
areas to be made up within any premises mentioned in section 22, or
within such other premises as may be prescribed under section 23(3),
and in accordance with the terms and conditions of such approval,
commence or carry out, or permit or authorise the commencement or
carrying out of, any building works on those premises.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

 (3) If any works are carried out in contravention of subsection (1),
or no planting area as required by section 23 is provided within any
premises, the Commissioner may serve upon —

       (a) any person who carried out, or caused or permitted the
            works to be so carried out; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
29  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the occupier of the premises,

an enforcement notice in writing requiring the person or the occupier
(as the case may be) to make up such planting areas within those
premises in such manner and according to such specifications and
within such time as may be specified in the notice.

Occupier’s duty to maintain planting areas

 25.—(1) It is the duty of the occupier of the premises within which
any planting area has been made up to maintain the planting area,
either wholly or to the extent specified by the Commissioner in
respect of that planting area, and in accordance with the specifications
of the Commissioner.

 (2) The Commissioner may, by a maintenance notice, require the
occupier of the premises mentioned in subsection (1) to carry out such
works to the planting area or any part of it as the Commissioner thinks
fit to be carried out for the proper maintenance of the planting area
and to take such other measures as may be specified in the notice.

 (3) A maintenance notice under this section must specify the date
on which it is to take effect and the period (which runs from the date
the maintenance notice takes effect) within which any step required
by the notice must be taken.

 (4) In this section and section 26, “planting area” includes any area
that has, before 1 August 2005, been set aside as a green buffer or
peripheral planting strip pursuant to any requirement imposed by the
competent authority under the Planning Act 1998.

Planting areas not to be interfered with

 26.—(1) A person must not, except with the approval of the
Commissioner granted under section 32 and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of such approval —

       (a) alter, close up or remove any planting area in any premises;

       (b) erect or place any structure or object in, above, across or
            under any such planting area;

       (c) erect, construct or lay within any planting area in any
            premises any fence, retaining wall, foundation, manhole,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  30

          pipe, cable, mains or any obstruction or structure (whether
          temporary or permanent); or

(d) carry out any works within a planting area in any premises
     which deviate from any specifications issued or approved
     by the Commissioner under section 34.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $30,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine of $500 for every day or part of a
day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) Where it appears to the Commissioner that there has been a
contravention of subsection (1), he or she may serve a reinstatement
notice on all or any of the following persons:

(a) any person who appears to the Commissioner to have been
     responsible for or have participated in anything done in
     contravention of subsection (1); or

(b) any occupier of the premises on which anything is done in
     contravention of subsection (1),

requiring the person to remedy (wholly or in part) the contravention.

 (4) The reinstatement notice under subsection (3) may, in particular,
require the person on whom it is served —

(a) to cease or refrain from, either wholly or to the extent
     specified in the notice, any activity on the premises
     concerned;

(b) to alter, demolish or remove any property or material from
     the premises concerned, or any structure, object, fence,
     retaining wall, foundation, manhole, pipe, cable, mains or
     any obstruction or structure (whether temporary or
     permanent) that the person has erected or caused to be
     erected thereon in contravention of subsection (1);

          (c) to restore any part of the planting area to its former state or,
              if such restoration is not reasonably practicable or is
              undesirable, to execute such works as the Commissioner
              may specify in the notice to alleviate the effect of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
31  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    contravention of subsection (1), including planting such
    trees or plants and taking measures for their maintenance;
    or

    (d) to take such other measures which the Commissioner
         reasonably considers necessary for the purposes of
         paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

 (5) A reinstatement notice under this section must specify the date
on which it is to take effect and the period (which runs from the date
the reinstatement notice takes effect) within which any step required
by the notice must be taken.

Notice to plant or replant trees and plants, etc.

 27.—(1) For the purpose of enhancing greenery and promoting the
use of trees and plants as important elements of streetscapes and
landscapes or otherwise enhancing the amenity of any area located
along or on any premises (whether or not mentioned in section 22)
fronting, adjoining or abutting any public street, the Commissioner
may at any time serve on the occupier of those premises a notice
requiring the occupier, within such period as may be specified in the
notice, to do all or any of the following within the green margin of
those premises:

       (a) to plant or replant any tree or plant of such size and species
            and at such places and provide for their maintenance and
            protection in such manner as may be specified;

       (b) to take such measures for the maintenance or conservation
            of any tree or plant growing on the green margin as may be
            specified;

       (c) to clear the green margin of weeds or cut the grass; or

       (d) to take such other measures which the Commissioner
            considers necessary for such purpose.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) A person must not, at any time, cut or damage any tree or plant
which has been planted pursuant to a notice under subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  32

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), any person who, without reasonable
excuse, contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $30,000.

 (4) Nothing in this section renders unlawful the cutting or
damaging of any tree or plant by any person where the condition
of the tree or plant constitutes an immediate threat to life or property.

 (5) In this section, the green margin of any premises means that part
of the premises (whether or not part of a planting area) that is
fronting, adjoining or abutting the public street, which is of a width of
not more than 5 metres measured from —

(a) the boundary of those premises; or

(b) the boundary of the road reserve line (if any) encroaching
     upon those premises,

whichever is the narrower.

         Division 2 — Open spaces set aside as public parks

Provision of open spaces as public parks

 28.—(1) All premises on which any building works mentioned in
section 22 are to be carried out must also have such open spaces to be
used as public parks (if any) pursuant to any development proposal or
plan approved by the competent authority.

 (2) It is the duty of the occupier of the premises mentioned in
section 22 who carries out or causes to be carried out any building
works mentioned in that section to make up every open space
mentioned in subsection (1) in accordance with the specifications of
the Commissioner.

 (3) Where it appears to the Commissioner that there has been a
contravention of subsection (2), he or she may serve an enforcement
notice on the occupier of the premises on which anything is done in
contravention of that subsection.

 (4) An enforcement notice under this section must specify the date
on which it is to take effect and the period (which runs from the date
the enforcement notice takes effect) within which any step required
by the notice must be taken.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
33  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

Vesting of open space set aside as public park in Government

 29.—(1) Where any open space has been set aside for use or is
being used as a public park pursuant to any development proposal or
plan approved by the competent authority, the Commissioner may, by
an instrument in the form approved by the Registrar of Titles or the
Registrar of Deeds (as the case may be), declare that the open space
vests in the Government.

 (2) Any plan prepared by the Commissioner under subsection (1)
must comply with the requirements of the Land Titles Act 1993 in
respect of registered land and of the Registration of Deeds Act 1988
in respect of other land and must show thereon the premises which
will vest in the Government.

 (3) Any declaration referred to in subsection (1) must be published
in the Gazette.

 (4) Where any premises that are to be vested in the Government
under this section consist of premises included in separate lots
already set aside as a public park, the declaration must be registered
against those lots under the provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993 in
respect of registered land and under the provisions of the Registration
of Deeds Act 1988 in respect of other land.

 (5) Where any premises that are to be vested in the Government
under this section consist of premises included in an existing lot or
lots, those premises forming the public park are to be excised from the
existing lot or lots and the declaration must be registered in respect of
the excised portions under the provisions of the Land Titles Act 1993
in respect of registered land and under the provisions of the
Registration of Deeds Act 1988 in respect of other land.

 (6) Upon the registration of a declaration made under
subsection (1), the premises forming the public park vest in the
Government free from all encumbrances and where the premises are
held under a statutory land grant, such vesting is not to be deemed to
create a subdivision within the meaning of the State Lands Act 1920.

 (7) No compensation is payable for any premises that are vested in
the Government under this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  34

 (8) When any premises are vested in the Government under this
section, the Board may take possession of the premises and proceed
to demolish and remove any building or portion of any building
forming part thereof.

                        Division 3 — Green verges

Provision of green verges of public streets

 30.—(1) A person (other than the road authority) must not, except
with the approval of the Commissioner granted under section 32 in
respect of the green verges to be made up and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of such approval, commence or carry out, or
permit or authorise the commencement or carrying out of any
construction of —

       (a) any new public street; or

       (b) any street which is to be set aside for use as a public street
            pursuant to any development proposal or plan approved by
            the competent authority.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

 (3) Where it appears to the Commissioner that any construction
works are carried out in contravention of subsection (1), or no green
verges are made up in respect of those construction works, he or she
may serve upon —

       (a) any person who appears to the Commissioner to have been
            responsible for or have participated in anything done in
            contravention of subsection (1); or

       (b) any occupier of the premises on which anything is done in
            contravention thereof,

an enforcement notice in writing requiring the person or the occupier
to make up such green verges in such manner and according to such
specifications and within such time as may be specified in the notice.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
35  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

 (4) The road authority must, before commencing or carrying out, or
permitting or authorising the commencement or carrying out of any
construction works mentioned in subsection (1) in the performance of
any function or discharge of any duty conferred on the road authority
by or under any written law, consult the Commissioner in respect
thereof.

 (5) Nothing in this section requires an application for approval
under section 32 in respect of any construction works mentioned in
subsection (1) for which the relevant approval has been obtained from
the Board before 1 August 2005.

 (6) For the purposes of this section, the construction of a new public
street is deemed to include —

    (a) the continuation of an existing public street;

    (b) the widening or alteration of any existing public street; and

    (c) the adapting of a public street made for foot traffic only for
        carriage traffic or vice versa.

Street works affecting green verges

 31.—(1) A person (other than the road authority) must not, except
with the approval of the Commissioner granted under section 32 in
respect of street works carried out under this subsection and in
accordance with the terms and conditions of such approval,
commence or carry out, or permit or authorise the commencement
or carrying out of, any street works on or within the vicinity of —

       (a) any public street; or

       (b) any street which is to be declared a public street under
            section 26 of the Street Works Act 1995,

which may affect any green verge along that street.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine of
$500 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  36

 (3) Where it appears to the Commissioner that there has been a
contravention of subsection (1), he or she may serve a reinstatement
notice on any person who appears to the Commissioner to have been
responsible for or have participated in anything done in contravention
of that subsection requiring the person to remedy (wholly or in part)
the contravention.

 (4) The reinstatement notice under subsection (3) may, in particular,
require the person on whom it is served —

(a) to cease or refrain from, either wholly or to the extent
     specified in the notice, any activity on the premises
     concerned;

(b) to alter, demolish or remove any property or material from
     the green verge concerned, or any structure, object, fence,
     retaining wall, foundation, manhole, pipe, cable, mains or
     any obstruction or structure (whether temporary or
     permanent) that the person has erected or caused to be
     erected thereon in contravention of subsection (1);

          (c) to restore any part of the green verge to its former state or,
              if such restoration is not reasonably practicable or is
              undesirable, to execute such works as the Commissioner
              may specify in the notice to alleviate the effect of the
              contravention of subsection (1), including planting such
              trees or plants and taking measures for their maintenance;
              or

(d) to take such other measures which the Commissioner
     reasonably considers necessary for the purposes of
     paragraph (a), (b) or (c).

 (5) A reinstatement notice under this section must specify the date
on which it is to take effect and the period (which runs from the date
the reinstatement notice takes effect) within which any step required
by the notice must be taken.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
37  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

 (6) The road authority must, before commencing or carrying out, or
permitting or authorising the commencement or carrying out of any
street works referred to in subsection (1) in the performance of any
function or discharge of any duty conferred on the road authority by
or under any written law, consult the Commissioner in respect
thereof.

 (7) Nothing in this section requires an application for approval
under section 32 in respect of any street works mentioned in
subsection (1) for which the relevant approval has been obtained from
the Board before 1 August 2005.

               Division 4 — Specifications and approvals

Approvals required

 32.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every application for
an approval for the purposes of section 24, 26, 30 or 31 must be —

       (a) made to the Commissioner in such form and manner as the
            Commissioner may require;

       (b) accompanied by such plans of the works to which the
            application relates, and such other documents, as the
            Commissioner may require; and

       (c) accompanied by such non-refundable application fee as
            may be prescribed.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) The Commissioner may require the plans mentioned in
subsection (1)(b) —

       (a) to be made or certified by a qualified person appointed by
            the person for whom the works are or are to be carried out;
            and

       (b) to show such details or specifications as the Commissioner
            may determine.

 (3) Upon receipt of an application mentioned in subsection (1) in
respect of any works, the Commissioner may, subject to
subsection (4) —

       (a) refuse to grant approval; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  38

(b) grant approval unconditionally or subject to such
     conditions as the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (4) The Commissioner must not grant any approval under
section 30(1) unless —

(a) the competent authority has first given written permission
     under the provisions of the Planning Act 1998 for the use
     of the land for the construction of a street mentioned in
     section 30(1); or

(b) the use of the land for the construction of a street
     mentioned in section 30(1) has been authorised under
     section 21(6) of the Planning Act 1998.

 (5) Where the plans mentioned in subsection (1)(b) are certified by
a qualified person, the Commissioner may, on the basis of such
certification and without checking those plans, issue an approval in
respect of the works, except that nothing prohibits or prevents the
Commissioner from carrying out random checks on any of the plans
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) before approving the works.

 (6) Where an approval has been granted under subsection (3) in
respect of plans submitted under subsection (1)(b) and the applicant
intends to depart or deviate from the plans approved, the applicant
must apply to the Commissioner for his or her approval of the plans
showing the proposed departure or deviation, and subsections (2) to
(5) apply, with the necessary modifications, to an application for an
approval under this subsection.

 (7) Any approval granted in respect of any works under this section
lapses upon the earlier of the following events:

(a) in a case where a written permission has been granted by
     the competent authority under the Planning Act 1998 in
     respect of works, if the written permission lapses pursuant
     to section 20 of that Act;

       (b) if the works are not commenced within the period specified
            in the approval.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (8) The Commissioner may, at any time, by written notice revoke
any approval granted under subsection (3) if he or she is satisfied —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
39  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) that any information given in the application for the
         approval or any document submitted to the Commissioner
         in respect of the application is false in a material particular;
         or

    (b) that the person has failed to comply with any condition
         imposed by the Commissioner under subsection (3).

Compliance certificates

 33.—(1) Where any works in respect of which an approval has been
granted under section 32 have been completed, the person to whom
the approval was granted must apply for a compliance certificate in
such form and manner as the Commissioner may require.

 (2) If the Commissioner is satisfied that the works in respect of
which an approval has been granted under section 32 have been
completed in accordance with the plans for those works mentioned in
section 32(1)(b) and any condition imposed by the Commissioner
under section 32(3), the Commissioner may grant a compliance
certificate unconditionally or subject to such conditions as he or she
thinks fit.

 (3) Where the Commissioner has revoked any approval under
section 32(8), any compliance certificate granted in respect of the
works is automatically revoked.

Specifications

 34.—(1) The Commissioner may issue or approve and from time to
time review and revise specifications for planting areas, green verges
and open spaces to be used as public parks.

 (2) If any provision in any specifications issued or approved by the
Commissioner under subsection (1) is inconsistent with any
regulations made under this Act, such provision, to the extent of
the inconsistency, either has effect subject to such regulations or,
where appropriate, having regard to such regulations, does not have
effect.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  40

Duties of qualified person

 35.—(1) Every qualified person mentioned in section 32(2)(a)
must —

(a) take all reasonable steps and exercise due diligence in
     supervising and inspecting the works to ensure that those
     works are carried out in accordance with this Act and with
     the plans submitted under section 32 and with all
     conditions imposed by the Commissioner under that
     section; and

(b) notify the Commissioner of any contravention of the
     provisions of this Act pertaining to the works.

 (2) Any qualified person who contravenes any of the requirements
of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $30,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) In any prosecution against a qualified person for an offence
under subsection (1)(b), it is a defence for the qualified person to
prove to the satisfaction of the court that he or she did not know or
could not reasonably have discovered the contravention referred to in
the charge.

Liabilities related to plans, certificates and documents

 36.—(1) Any person for whom any works are carried out, or any
person who in carrying out the works deviates, or permits or
authorises any planting area, open space or green verge to deviate, in
any material way from any plans approved by the Commissioner
under section 32 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $30,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) being required by this Act to make or produce to the
            Commissioner any plan or document;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
41  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) for the purpose of obtaining any certificate or approval
         from the Commissioner under this Act; or

    (c) for the purpose of establishing any fact relevant to the
        administration of this Act,

makes or produces any plan or document which —

    (d) is false in a material particular;

    (e) has not been made by the person by whom it purports to
        have been made; or

    (f) has been in any way altered or tampered with,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $30,000.

                                    PART 6

                      PREVENTION OF DANGERS

Trees and plants obstructing traffic

 37. Where the Commissioner is satisfied that any tree or plant,
whether or not dead or dying, on any premises adjoining a street,
railway or rapid transit system or any part thereof —

       (a) is likely, by falling or otherwise, to obstruct the traffic on
            the street, railway or rapid transit system or endanger the
            lives or property of travellers thereon; or

       (b) is obstructing or is likely, in any way, to obstruct the view
            of —

               (i) any motorist on the street; or

              (ii) any operator of the railway or rapid transit system,

the Commissioner may serve an enforcement notice requiring the
occupier of the premises to take such measures (including cutting the
tree or plant or any part of it) as the Commissioner thinks fit within
the time specified in the notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  42

Power to enter and inspect premises for dangerous trees

 37A.—(1) The Commissioner or an authorised officer may, at any
reasonable time, enter any premises to inspect any tree or plant in
order to ascertain if the condition of the tree or plant, whether or not
dead or dying, constitutes a danger to any person or property.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) Where the Commissioner or authorised officer is satisfied that
the condition of any tree or plant on the premises inspected under
subsection (1) constitutes a danger to any person or property, the
Commissioner or authorised officer may by a maintenance notice
require the occupier of the premises —

(a) to maintain the tree or plant; or

       (b) to take such other measures as may be specified in the
            notice to abate the danger.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (3) A maintenance notice issued under subsection (2) must specify
the date on which the notice takes effect, and the period (beginning on
the date the notice takes effect) within which any step required by the
notice must be taken.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Imminently dangerous trees or plants

 38.—(1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that —

       (a) the condition of any tree or plant, whether or not dead or
            dying, on any premises constitutes an immediate threat to
            life or property; or

       (b) it is reasonably necessary to cut or damage a tree or plant,
            whether or not dead or dying, on any premises to protect
            human life or property from fire or for extinguishing or
            restricting the spread of fire,

the Commissioner may take such measures and do such works on
those premises or other premises adjacent thereto as may be
necessary to cut or damage the tree or plant or any part of it.

 (2) All costs and expenses incurred by the Commissioner under
subsection (1) constitute a debt due from the occupier of the premises

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
43  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

mentioned in that subsection to the Board, and may be recoverable in
the manner provided for in this Act.

                                    PART 7

                     POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT

Power to require information in respect of contraventions

 39.—(1) Where it appears to the Commissioner or any authorised
officer that there may have been a contravention of any provision of
this Act, he or she may serve an information notice to require any
person who appears to the Commissioner or authorised officer to be
acquainted with the circumstances of the case to provide him or her,
within such time as may be specified in the notice, with information
relating to that case in the possession or within the knowledge of that
person.

 (2) An information notice under subsection (1) must be complied
with by giving the required information in writing to the
Commissioner or authorised officer, as the case may be.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with any notice under
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (4) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
subsection (3) to prove that the person did not know and could not
with reasonable diligence have ascertained, the information required
in the information notice.

 (5) If any person —

       (a) makes any statement purporting to comply with a
            requirement of an information notice which the person
            knows to be false or misleading in a material particular; or

       (b) recklessly makes such a statement which is false or
            misleading in a material particular,

the person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  44

Power of entry and to demand particulars of identity

 40.—(1) The Commissioner or any authorised officer may, with
such assistants and workmen as are necessary, at any reasonable time,
enter upon any land for the purpose of —

(a) ascertaining whether there is, or has been, on or in
     connection with the premises, a contravention of this Act;

(b) ascertaining whether circumstances exist that would
     authorise the Commissioner to take any action or
     execute any works under this Act; or

          (c) taking any action or carrying out any works, authorised or
              required by this Act.

 (2) The Commissioner or any authorised officer may take or cause
to be taken any photograph of the premises and any property or
material found thereon and such other steps as he or she may consider
necessary without involving any search or seizure of any premises,
thing or person.

 (3) The occupier of any premises must, if required by the
Commissioner or any authorised officer, as the case may be —

(a) give his or her name and address;

(b) provide proof of his or her identity; and

          (c) give the name and address of the owner of the premises, if
              known.

(4) Any person who —

(a) wilfully obstructs the Commissioner or any authorised
     officer in the performance of any matter or thing which the
     Commissioner or authorised officer is authorised to do by
     this section; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
45  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) upon being required by the Commissioner or any
         authorised officer to give his or her name and address or
         to provide any particulars under subsection (3), refuses to
         do so or wilfully misstates his or her name or address or
         provides false particulars,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

Power to demand evidence of identity and power of arrest in
certain circumstances

 41.—(1) The Commissioner, an authorised officer or a police
officer may require any person who has committed, or whom the
Commissioner, authorised officer or police officer (as the case may
be) reasonably suspects of having committed, an offence under this
Act to provide such evidence of the person’s identity as may be
required by the Commissioner, authorised officer or police officer (as
the case may be).

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) Any person who —

       (a) refuses to provide the information required of the person
            under subsection (1); or

       (b) provides, in connection with a requirement under
            subsection (1), information that is false or misleading in
            a material particular, knowing or reckless as to whether it is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (3) The Commissioner, an authorised officer or a police officer may
arrest, without warrant, any person who has committed or who is
reasonably suspected to have committed an offence under
subsection (2).

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  46

 (4) A park ranger may exercise the powers under subsections (1)
and (3) in respect of any person who has committed or whom the park
ranger reasonably suspects of having committed an offence under this
Act within the national park, nature reserve or public park specified in
the authorisation for the park ranger under section 4(7).

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (5) The Commissioner, authorised officer, police officer or park
ranger making an arrest under subsection (3) must not restrain the
person arrested more than is necessary to prevent the person’s escape.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (6) A person arrested under this section may be detained until his or
her name and address are correctly ascertained except that no person
so arrested may be detained longer than is permitted by written law
and is necessary for bringing him or her before a court unless the
order of a court for his or her detention is obtained.

Power to investigate offences under Act

 41A.—(1) For the purpose of investigating any offence under this
Act, the Commissioner or an authorised officer may —

       (a) examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted with
            the facts and circumstances of the case; and

       (b) by written order require any person within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts and
            circumstances of the case, to attend before the
            Commissioner or authorised officer.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is bound to state
truly the facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted
concerning the case except only that the person may decline to make,
with regard to any fact or circumstance, a statement which would
have a tendency to expose the person to a criminal charge or to
penalty or forfeiture.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (3) A statement made by any person examined under this section
must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
47  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) be read over to the person;

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
        a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (4) If any person fails to attend before the Commissioner or an
authorised officer as required by an order under subsection (1)(b), the
Commissioner or authorised officer may report such failure to a
Magistrate who may issue a warrant to secure the attendance of that
person as required by the order.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Enforcement powers in national parks, nature reserves and
public parks

 42.—(1) The Commissioner, an authorised officer, a park ranger or
a police officer may, without warrant, arrest any person within any
national park, nature reserve or public park if that person, in
contravention of this Act, fails or refuses to leave the national park,
nature reserve or public park (as the case may be), or any part thereof,
after being requested by the Commissioner, authorised officer, park
ranger or police officer to do so.

 (2) If the Commissioner, an authorised officer, a park ranger or a
police officer has reason to believe that any offence has been
committed under this Act within any national park, nature reserve or
public park, he or she may inspect and search any baggage,
equipment, package, container, tent, vehicle, boat, craft or place
and seize any thing therein which he or she requires as evidence that
any such offence has been committed.

 (3) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

Power to move vehicles and demolish structures, etc.

 42A.—(1) Subject to sections 42B and 42C, where —

       (a) any vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing is
            parked, moored or otherwise left in a national park, nature
            reserve or public park contrary to this Act; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  48

(b) any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or
     building is affixed, set up or erected in a public park
     contrary to this Act,

the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger may serve
upon any person specified in subsection (2) a written notice requiring
the person to do any of the following within the period specified in the
notice, or any extension of that period that the Commissioner,
authorised officer or park ranger (as the case may be) may allow in
any particular case:

          (c) to remove the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
              thing mentioned in paragraph (a) from the national park,
              nature reserve or public park, as the case may be;

(d) to alter, demolish or remove any sign, shrine, altar,
     religious object, shelter, structure or building mentioned
     in paragraph (b) and remove all resulting debris from the
     public park concerned.

 (2) The written notice mentioned in subsection (1) may be served
on any person as follows:

(a) any person who does or causes or permits to be done any of
     the acts mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b);

(b) the owner or person having charge or control of —

          (i) the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
              thing mentioned in subsection (1)(a); or

          (ii) any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
               structure or building mentioned in subsection (1)(b);

          (c) any other person having power to remove —

          (i) the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
              thing mentioned in subsection (1)(a); or

          (ii) any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
               structure or building mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

          [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
49  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

Immediate removal of dangerous or obstructing vehicles, etc.,
in national park, nature reserve or public park

 42B.—(1) Where any vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
thing is parked, moored or otherwise left in a national park, nature
reserve or public park contrary to this Act and —

    (a) by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the following
         cannot be ascertained:

    (i) the name of any person in section 42A(2)(a), (b)(i) or
        (c)(i) to whom the written notice under
        section 42A(1) is to be served;

    (ii) the business address, residential address or last email
         address of the person in section 42A(2)(a), (b)(i) or
         (c)(i) to whom the written notice under
         section 42A(1) is to be served; or

    (b) in the opinion of the Commissioner, an authorised officer
         or a park ranger, the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or
         other thing —

    (i) is endangering or is expected to endanger other users
        of the national park, nature reserve or public park; or

    (ii) is causing or is expected to cause an obstruction to
         other users of the national park, nature reserve or
         public park,

the Commissioner, authorised officer or park ranger (as the case may
be) may, without first serving a written notice under section 42A(1),
move or cause to be moved, the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster
or other thing to a holding yard, or to another place, to avoid further
danger or obstruction or a danger or an obstruction arising (as the case
may be) to other users of the national park, nature reserve or public
park.

 (2) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (1), the
Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger may, with any
assistance that he or she considers necessary —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  50

(a) move the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
     thing by any reasonable means (including by driving,
     riding or towing it); and

(b) use reasonable force, including cutting or breaking open
     any lock, seal, fastener or other device on or connected to
     the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing.

 (3) After a vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other thing is
moved to a holding yard or other place under subsection (1), the
Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger (as the case may
be) must, as soon as practicable, serve a notice to any owner, or
person having charge or control, of the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip,
dumpster or other thing —

(a) about the moving to and detention at a holding yard or
     other place of the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or
     other thing moved and detained; and

(b) informing about —

          (i) the manner by which and the time within which an
              owner of the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or
              other thing so detained may procure its release; and

          (ii) the consequences that may follow under section 46A
               if the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster or other
               thing is not claimed within the time specified in the
               notice.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) is not required if, by the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the name and the business address,
residential address or last email address of the owner, or person
having charge or control, of the vehicle, boat, trailer, skip, dumpster
or other thing cannot be ascertained.

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

Immediate demolition, etc., of dangerous structure, etc., in
public park

 42C.—(1) Where any sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
structure or building is affixed, set up or erected in a public park
contrary to this Act and —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
51  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the following
         cannot be ascertained:

    (i) the name of any person in section 42A(2)(a), (b)(ii)
        or (c)(ii) to whom the written notice under
        section 42A(1) is to be served;

    (ii) the business address, residential address or last email
         address of the person in section 42A(2)(a), (b)(ii) or
         (c)(ii) to whom the written notice under
         section 42A(1) is to be served;

    (b) in the opinion of the Commissioner or an authorised
         officer, the sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,
         structure or building —

    (i) is in such a condition, or is used to carry such loads,
        as to be endangering or expected to endanger other
        users of the public park; or

    (ii) is causing or is likely to cause a serious obstruction to
         other users of the public park; or

    (c) in the opinion of the Commissioner or an authorised
        officer —

    (i) there is a serious and imminent risk of public
        disorder in the public park; or

    (ii) an actual or imminent occurrence has happened or
         may happen that endangers or threatens the safety of
         users of the public park,

    (c) because of any crowd, or any ceremony or other activity
        undertaken or which may be undertaken, at or around the
        sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or
        building,

the Commissioner or authorised officer (as the case may be) may,
without first serving a written notice under section 42A(1) —

    (d) alter, demolish or remove or cause to be altered,
         demolished or removed, the sign, shrine, altar, religious
         object, shelter, structure or building to avoid further danger

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  52

          or obstruction or a danger or an obstruction arising (as the
          case may be) to other users of the public park; and

          (e) move the sign, shrine, altar or religious object and any
              resulting debris from the altering, demolition or removal to
              a holding yard or another place.

 (2) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (1), the
Commissioner or an authorised officer may, with any assistance that
he or she considers necessary —

(a) enter any premises (without warrant) but only after
     declaring his or her office to any owner or occupier of
     the premises, or any other person who appears to be in
     charge of those premises, and is present during entry; and

(b) forcibly enter any premises without warrant, including by
     breaking open any outer or inner door or window leading
     to the premises and removing by force any obstruction to
     the entry, if the Commissioner or authorised officer (as the
     case may be) is unable to enter, or is refused entry to, the
     premises.

 (3) After a sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or
building is altered, demolished or removed under subsection (1), the
Commissioner or an authorised officer must, as soon as practicable,
serve a notice to any owner, or person having charge or control, of the
sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or building —

(a) about the altering, demolition or removal of the sign,
     shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or building
     and the moving it and any resulting debris to and detention
     at a holding yard or other place; and

(b) informing about —

          (i) the manner by which and the time within which an
              owner of the sign, shrine, altar, religious object,
              shelter, structure or building, and any resulting
              debris, so detained may procure its release; and

          (ii) the consequences that may follow under section 46A
               if the sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
53  Parks and Trees Act 2005  2020 Ed.

    structure or building and any resulting debris is not
    claimed within the time specified in the notice.

 (4) A notice under subsection (3) is not required if, by the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the name and the business address,
residential address or last email address of the owner, or person
having charge or control, of the sign, shrine, altar, religious object,
shelter, structure or building cannot be ascertained.

 (5) Subsection (2)(a) does not apply if the premises in question is
unoccupied at the time of entry.

    [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

                                    PART 8

          OFFENCES, PENALTIES AND PROCEEDINGS

Penalty for obstructing Commissioner, etc.

 43. Any person who —

       (a) hinders or obstructs the Commissioner, an authorised
            officer or a park ranger in the performance or execution of
            his or her duty or of any thing which he or she is
            empowered or required to do under this Act; or

       (b) interferes with any works authorised to be done by the
            Commissioner or any authorised officer or park ranger
            under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Parking of vehicles on green verges and turfed open spaces
prohibited

 44.—(1) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, parks a
vehicle on any green verge or any turfed open space which is
managed or maintained by the Board shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) In this section, “park” means to bring a vehicle to a stationary
position or to cause it to wait for any purpose.

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  54

Liability of owner, etc., of vehicle for offence committed

 45.—(1) When an offence under this Act is committed in relation to
a vehicle, the person who at the time of the commission of the offence
is the owner of the vehicle or, in the case of a deregistered vehicle, is
the person who immediately prior to the deregistration was registered
as the owner of the vehicle in respect of which the offence is
committed shall be guilty of the offence in all respects as if the person
were the actual offender guilty of the offence unless the court is
satisfied that the vehicle was at the relevant time a stolen vehicle or a
vehicle illegally taken or used.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the liability of the actual offender
but, where a penalty has been imposed on or recovered from a person
in relation to an offence, no further penalty may be imposed on or
recovered from any other person in relation thereto.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), no owner of a vehicle shall, by virtue of
this section, be guilty of an offence if the owner —

(a) within 14 days after service on the owner of a notice
     alleging that the owner has been guilty of an offence,
     provides by a statement in writing to the Commissioner
     stating truthfully the name and address of the person who
     was in charge of the vehicle at all relevant times relating to
     the offence concerned; or

(b) satisfies the court that the owner did not know and would
     not with reasonable diligence have ascertained such name
     and address.

 (4) A statement made under subsection (3) if produced in any
proceedings against the person named therein in respect of the
offence concerned is sufficient evidence that such person was in
charge of the vehicle at all relevant times relating to such offence
unless evidence to the contrary is adduced.

Default in compliance with notice or condition

 46.—(1) Any person who, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) fails to comply with the requirements of any of the
            following notices served on the person:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
55  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (i) a tree conservation notice under section 15(1);

    (ii) a reinstatement notice under section 11(1), 21(1),
         26(3) or 31(3);

    (iia) a notice under section 42A(1);

                                                                 [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

    (iii) an enforcement notice under section 24(3), 28(3),
          30(3) or 37;

    (iv) a maintenance notice under section 25(2) or 37A(2);
         or

    (v) a notice to plant or replant under section 27(1); or

    (b) contravenes any condition of approval imposed by the
         Commissioner under section 12, 20 or 32,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $200 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) In any proceedings against a person for an offence under
subsection (1), it is a defence for that person charged to prove to the
satisfaction of the court that that person has used all due diligence to
comply with the notice or condition of approval imposed.

 (3) The cost of any measures or works carried out in accordance
with any notice mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is to be borne by the
person on whom the notice is served.

 (4) If any notice or condition of approval mentioned in
subsection (1) is not complied with to the satisfaction of the
Commissioner, the Commissioner may at any time enter the
premises concerned and carry out or cause to be carried out any
works, activities or steps which are in the Commissioner’s opinion
necessary to secure compliance with the notice or condition of
approval (as the case may be), including all or any of the following:

    (a) cut or remove any tree;

    (b) alter, demolish or remove any sign, shrine, altar, religious
         object, shelter, structure or building erected, and removing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.     Parks and Trees Act 2005                               56

          to and detaining it and any resulting debris at a holding
          yard or other place;

          (c) remove to and detain any vehicle, boat, trailer, skip,
              dumpster or other thing at a holding yard or other place;

       (d) using reasonable force, including cutting or breaking open
            any lock, seal, fastener or other device.

                                                                                [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

 (5) All costs and expenses reasonably incurred by the
Commissioner in exercise of the powers conferred by
subsection (4) constitute a debt due from any person in default of
the notice or condition of approval mentioned in subsection (1), and
may be recoverable in the manner provided for in this Act.

(6) Where —

(a) any land has 2 or more occupiers; and

(b) any measures have been taken or works have been
     executed by the Commissioner under this Act pursuant
     to any contravention of the notice or condition of approval
     mentioned in subsection (1),

the occupiers shall be liable jointly for the whole costs and expenses
incurred by the Commissioner, and those costs and expenses must be
apportioned in such manner as appears to the Commissioner to be
reasonable.

 (7) The certificate of the Commissioner stating the amount of the
costs and expenses so incurred in exercise of the powers conferred by
subsection (4) is conclusive evidence of that amount.

 (8) Any person to whom a notice has been issued as an occupier of
the premises must, if the person is not the occupier of the premises in
respect of which the notice has been issued, within 7 days from the
date on which the notice was served on him or her, inform the
Commissioner in writing that he or she is not the occupier.

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (8) is, unless he
or she proves to the satisfaction of the court before which the question
of liability to pay the costs and expenses is determined under
section 48, deemed, for the purpose of recovering such costs and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
57  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

expenses, to be the occupier of the premises in respect of which the
notice was issued.

 (10) Where, in any case referred to in subsection (9), the court is
satisfied that the person in default has shown sufficient cause for his
or her default in not complying with any notice mentioned in
subsection (1), the costs and expenses incurred by the Commissioner
in exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (4) may, even
though the notice has not been issued to the occupier of the premises,
be recoverable by the Board from the occupier in the manner
provided for in this Act.

Disposal of moved vehicles, etc.

 46A.—(1) Unless subsection (2) applies, any vehicle, boat, trailer,
skip, dumpster or other thing, or any sign, shrine, altar or religious
object and any resulting debris from the altering, demolition or
removal of the sign, shrine, altar, religious object, shelter, structure or
building, which is removed to and detained at a holding yard or other
place under section 42B(1), 42C(1) or 46(4) (called in this section the
removed material) —

       (a) must be dealt with in accordance with section 364(1) of the
            Criminal Procedure Code 2010 where the removed
            material is to be produced in any criminal trial in
            connection with an offence under this Act;

       (b) is deemed to be forfeited to the Board where any owner of
            the removed material consents to its disposal; or

       (c) in any other case, must be —

               (i) returned to the owner; or

              (ii) reported to a Magistrate’s Court, in which event
                   sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure
                   Code 2010 then apply with the necessary
                   modifications.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), where it appears to the Commissioner
that any removed material —

       (a) is perishable;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  58

(b) may rapidly depreciate in value; or

          (c) is of such a nature or in such condition that it would be
              dangerous, not reasonably practicable or unduly costly for
              the Commissioner to retain custody of the removed
              material,

the Commissioner may, instead of storing the removed material at a
holding yard or other place and notifying the owner thereof, cause the
removed material —

(d) to be sold (by public auction or otherwise) at once; or

          (e) to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of at such time and in
              such manner as the Commissioner thinks fit.

 (3) If a person who appears, to the satisfaction of the Board, to be
the owner of any removed material, and not to be a person in default
with complying with the relevant notice or condition of approval in
section 46(1), claims —

(a) after that removed material has been sold, destroyed or
     disposed of under subsection (2); but

(b) before the end of one year starting the date the removed
     material was removed under section 42B(1), 42C(1) or
     46(4), whichever is applicable,

the Board may compensate, out of the funds of the Board, the person
for the loss of the removed material, less reasonable costs and
expenses incurred by the Board in storing and selling, destroying or
disposing of the removed material.

 (4) Subject to any order to the contrary by the Magistrate’s Court
under the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, any removed material
deemed forfeited under this section may be disposed of by the Board
in any manner that the Board thinks fit.

          [Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

Recovery of costs

 47.—(1) Where in any court proceedings against any person for an
offence under this Act which relates to any damaged or destroyed
property which is —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
59  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (a) owned by the Government or the Board;

    (b) maintained or managed by the Board; or

    (c) under the management or control of the Commissioner
        under this Act,

the court before which the person is convicted of the offence may, in
addition to passing any sentence for that offence, make an order
requiring that person to pay to the Government or the Board (as the
case may be) a sum of money to be fixed by the court which, in the
opinion of the court, represents the value (including any intrinsic
value) of the damaged or destroyed property.

 (2) The court may, in its discretion, allow time for the payment of
the sum of money under subsection (1) and grant extension of the
time so allowed, or direct payment of that sum to be made by
instalments.

Compensation, damages, fees, costs and expenses to be
determined by Magistrate’s Court or District Court

 48.—(1) Except as otherwise provided, in all cases where
compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses are provided under
this Act to be paid, the amount and (if necessary) the apportionment
of the amount and any question of liability are, in case of dispute, or
failure to pay, to be summarily ascertained and determined by a
Magistrate’s Court or, if the amount claimed exceeds the Magistrate’s
Court limit, by a District Court.

 (2) If the amount of compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses
is not paid by the party liable to pay it within 7 days after demand, that
amount may be reported to a Magistrate’s Court or District Court and
recovered in the same way as if it were a fine imposed by a
Magistrate’s Court or a District Court.

 (3) An appeal lies to the General Division of the High Court from
any decision of a Magistrate’s Court or a District Court under this
section, and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010
apply, with the necessary modifications, to all such appeals.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  60

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 49.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     a partner; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

(a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
     an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
     its governing body; or

(b) to be attributable to any act or default on the part of such an
     officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
61               Parks and Trees Act 2005                     2020 Ed.

(5) In this section —

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         member of the committee of management, chief
         executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
         of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of the president, secretary
         or member of the committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) The Minister may, by regulations made under this section,
provide for the application of any provision of this section, with such
modifications as the Minister considers appropriate, to any body
corporate or unincorporated association formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of court

 50. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 51.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under this
Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.     Parks and Trees Act 2005                               62

(b) $5,000.

                                                                    [9/2017]

 (2) Despite the payment of the composition amount under
subsection (1), any compensation, damages, fees, costs or expenses
which are provided to be paid under this Act remain payable.

 (3) On payment of the composition amount under subsection (1), no
further proceedings are to be taken against that person in respect of
the offence.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Prosecutions

 52. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act may, with
the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted by any police
officer or authorised officer authorised in writing in that behalf by the
Commissioner.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Evidence

 53.—(1) Subject to this section, the contents of any document
prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the purposes of
this Act are, until the contrary is proved, presumed to be correct.

 (2) In any proceedings instituted for the carrying out of any works
in contravention of the provisions of this Act, the occupier of the
premises at the time the works were carried out is presumed, until the
contrary is proved, to be the person carrying out the works.

 (3) Where any information in respect of any works or any matter
relating to or for the purposes of this Act is provided by electronic
means, the production of any document under the hand of the officer
responsible for providing such information purporting to be a hard
copy transcript of all or any such information is, in all courts and in all
proceedings, sufficient evidence of the information provided
electronically and all courts in all proceedings are to take judicial
notice of the signature of the officer.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
63  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

Presumptions and defences

 54.—(1) Where it is proved that a tree or plant was cut or damaged
in contravention of section 14(1) or (2), 18(1) or (2) or 27(2), it is
presumed, until the contrary is proved —

    (a) that the occupier of the premises on which the tree or plant
         was growing; or

    (b) where any building works were being carried out in that
         part of the premises where the tree or plant was growing at
         or about the time that the tree or plant was cut or damaged,
         that —

    (i) the person who was carrying out the works at the
        time;

    (ii) the employer of the person mentioned in
         sub‑paragraph (i) at the time of the offence; and

    (iii) the qualified person or other person who instructed
          or caused or permitted the person mentioned in
          sub‑paragraph (i) to cut or damage that tree or plant,

had cut or damaged the tree or plant.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under section 14(2), 18(2)
or 27(3) against any person referred to in subsection (1)(b)(ii) or (iii),
it is a defence for that person charged to prove to the satisfaction of
the court —

    (a) that the offence was committed without his or her consent
         or connivance; and

    (b) that he or she had exercised all such diligence to prevent
         the commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
         exercised having regard to the nature of his or her
         responsibilities as an employer or a qualified person or
         such other person and to all the circumstances.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  64

          PART 9

          GENERAL

Act not to affect liability in tort of occupier

 55. Nothing in this Act affects the liability in tort of an occupier for
any injury or damage caused to any person or property arising from
any tree or plant growing on his or her land.

Appeal to Minister

 56.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by —

       (a) a tree conservation notice under section 15(1);

       (b) a reinstatement notice under section 11(1), 21(1), 26(3)
            or 31(3);

       (c) an enforcement notice under section 24(3), 28(3), 30(3)
            or 37;

       (d) a maintenance notice under section 25(2) or 37A(2);

       (e) a notice to plant or replant under section 27(1); or

        (f) a decision of the Commissioner in refusing to grant an
            approval under section 12, 20 or 32,

may, within 14 days from the date of service of the notice, or the date
the person is notified of the Commissioner’s decision, appeal to the
Minister in the prescribed form and manner.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

 (2) Despite any appeal made under subsection (1), the notice or
decision appealed against takes effect and must be complied with
unless otherwise ordered by the Minister.

 (3) The Minister may, after considering the appeal, dismiss or allow
the appeal, unconditionally or subject to such conditions as he or she
thinks fit, and the notice or decision is confirmed, rescinded or varied
in such manner as the Minister may decide.

 (4) The Minister may, in considering an appeal under this section,
give the appellant an opportunity to make representations in writing.

 (5) The decision of the Minister in any appeal under this section is
final.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
65  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

Payment to Board of fees, charges, etc.

 57. Except as provided for in section 51(4), all fees, charges and
any other moneys collected under this Act must be paid to the Board.

                                                                                                             [9/2017]

Exemption

 58.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, with or without
conditions, exempt any class or description of person, thing, premises
or works from any of the provisions of this Act.

 (2) If an exemption is granted under this section with conditions,
the exemption operates only if the conditions are complied with.

Service of documents

 59.—(1) Any notice or document required or authorised by this Act
to be served on any person, and any summons issued by a court
against any person in connection with any offence under this Act may
be served on the person —

       (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
            employee of his or her family or household at his or her
            usual or last known place of residence;

       (b) by leaving it at the person’s usual or last known place of
            residence or business in an envelope addressed to the
            person;

       (c) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
            the person’s usual or last known place of residence or
            business; or

       (d) in the case of an incorporated company, a partnership or a
            body of persons —

               (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
                   of the company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business; or

              (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the
                   company, partnership or body of persons at its
                   registered office or principal place of business.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  66

 (2) Any notice, document or summons sent by registered post to
any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person at the time when the notice, document or
summons (as the case may be) would in the ordinary course of post be
delivered and, in proving service of the notice, document or
summons, it is sufficient to prove that the envelope containing the
same was properly addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

 (3) Any notice or document required or authorised by this Act to be
served on the owner or occupier of any premises or any summons
issued by a court against any such owner or occupier in connection
with any offence under this Act may be served by delivering it or a
true copy thereof to some adult person on the premises or, if there is
no such person on the premises to whom it can with reasonable
diligence be delivered, by affixing the notice, document or summons
to some conspicuous part of the premises.

 (4) Any notice or document required or authorised by this Act to be
served on the owner or occupier of any premises or any summons
issued by a court against any such owner or occupier in connection
with any offence under this Act is deemed to be properly addressed if
addressed by the description of the owner or occupier of the premises
without further name or description.

 (5) Despite subsection (1), a notice required or authorised by this
Act to be served on the owner of any vehicle may be served by
addressing the notice to the owner of that vehicle without stating the
owner’s name or address and may also be served personally or by
affixing the notice to the vehicle.

Use of electronic service for making applications in connection
with building works

 59A.—(1) The Commissioner may permit an application to him or
her under this Act, for any matter connected with any building works,
to be made through the electronic service described in section 42AA
of the Building Control Act 1989.

 (2) Where a person uses the electronic service mentioned in
subsection (1) to make an application to the Commissioner, the
Commissioner may serve on the person any acknowledgment,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
67  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

approval, certificate, direction, notice, permit or other document in
connection with the application, by sending it to the person’s account
with the electronic service.

 (3) Service of a document on a person under subsection (2) takes
effect at the time when an electronic record of the document reaches
the person’s account with the electronic service.

(4) This section applies despite anything to the contrary in this Act.

 (5) In this section, “electronic record” has the meaning given by
section 2(1) of the Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

    [Act 23 of 2023 wef 18/12/2023]

Inaccuracies in document

 60.—(1) No misnomer or inaccurate description of any person,
premises, building, holding, street or place named or described in any
document prepared, issued or served under, by virtue of or for the
purposes of this Act in any way affects the operation of this Act as
respects that person or place if that person or place is so designated in
the document as to be identifiable.

 (2) No proceedings taken under or by virtue of this Act are invalid
for want of form.

Protection from liability

 61.—(1) No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie personally
against the Commissioner, an authorised officer or a park ranger for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in the
execution or purported execution of this Act or any other written law.

 (2) Nothing in this Act makes it obligatory for the Commissioner or
any authorised officer —

       (a) to inspect any works or the site of any proposed works to
            ascertain —

               (i) whether the provisions of this Act are complied with;
                   or

              (ii) whether any plans or other documents submitted to
                   him or her are accurate;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  68

(b) to issue any notice under this Act; or

          (c) to take any action or carry out any works authorised under
              this Act.

Amendment of Schedule

 62.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting the Board, by order in
the Gazette, amend, add to, vary or revoke the whole or any part of the
Schedule.

 (2) Every order made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 63.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Board may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

       (a) in relation to the management and control of national
            parks, nature reserves and public parks —

               (i) the preservation of order and the prevention of
                   nuisance therein;

              (ii) prescribing the days and times of admission thereto
                   or to any part thereof;

             (iii) the conservation and protection of plants, animals
                   and other organisms and property;

             (iv) the admission of vehicles thereto and the regulation
                   of traffic therein;

              (v) the prohibition of any particular act therein;

             (vi) prescribing the fees payable in respect of admission
                   thereto or to any part thereof;

            (vii) prescribing the fees payable for the use of the
                   premises or the facilities therein;

            (viii) [Deleted by Act 42 of 2022 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
69  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  2020 Ed.

    (b) the applications for approval under this Act, including the
         manner of such applications and the documents to be
         submitted;

    (c) the management of heritage road green buffers, including
        the prohibition and regulation of any particular act within
        the heritage road green buffers and the conservation and
        protection of trees and plants growing on heritage road
        green buffers;

    (d) prescribing that any act or omission in contravention of any
         regulations shall be an offence and prescribing penalties
         for such offences, which penalties must not exceed a fine
         of $10,000;

    (e) prescribing the manner for measuring the dimensions of a
        planting area, and regulating and prescribing standards for
        the planting, aeration and maintenance of trees and plants
        within any planting areas, green verges and open spaces to
        be used as public parks;

    (f) the prescribing of fees and charges for the purposes of
        this Act; and

    (g) any other matter which by this Act is required or permitted
         to be prescribed or is necessary or convenient to be
         prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to any provision
         of this Act.

                                                                                                      [9/2017]

Transitional provisions

 64.—(1) A person who, immediately before 1 August 2005, is —

       (a) the Commissioner of Parks and Recreation;

       (b) an officer appointed by the Minister under section 3(2) of
            the repealed Act; or

       (c) an officer authorised by the Minister under section 3(5) of
            the repealed Act,

continues to hold such office as if he or she were appointed under
section 4(1) as the Commissioner, as an authorised officer under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.  Parks and Trees Act 2005                                  70

section 4(3) and as a park ranger under section 4(6) of this Act,
respectively.

 (2) Any permission, approval, decision, notice, summons, warrant,
order or other document prepared, made, granted, issued by the
Commissioner of Parks and Recreation under the repealed Act, so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continues and
is deemed to have been prepared, made, granted or issued under the
corresponding provisions of this Act and except as otherwise
expressly provided in this Act, continues to have effect accordingly.

 (3) All acts done by or on behalf of the Commissioner of Parks and
Recreation before 1 August 2005 under the repealed Act continue to
remain valid and applicable as though done by the Commissioner
under this Act, until such time as invalidated, revoked, cancelled or
otherwise determined by the Commissioner.

 (4) In any written law or document, a reference to the repealed Act
is, insofar as it is necessary for preserving its effect, to be construed as
a reference to this Act and a reference to the Commissioner of Parks
and Recreation is to be construed as a reference to the Commissioner
under this Act.

 (5) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Act and in
force immediately before 1 August 2005, so far as it is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continues in force as if
made under this Act until it is revoked or repealed by subsidiary
legislation made under this Act.

References in other written laws

 65. Any reference in any written law to the National Parks Act
(Cap. 198A, 1991 Revised Edition) is a reference to the National
Parks Board Act 1996.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
71                  Parks and Trees Act 2005                  2020 Ed.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                               Sections 2, 7 and 62

AREAS DESIGNATED AS NATIONAL PARKS AND NATURE RESERVES
                                           PART 1

                                    NATIONAL PARKS
 1. All those pieces of land situated in T.S. No. 25 known as the Singapore
Botanic Gardens, described as follows:

          T.S. No.            Lot No.              Area
No. 25                                       (square metres)
                    01748N             522,892.70
Total               01643A             34.4
                    01644K             305.8
                    01640V             4,550.3
                                       527,783.2

   The boundaries of these areas are more particularly delineated on Certified
Plans Nos. 38578, 38579, 85149 and 38065 filed in the office of the Chief
Surveyor.

 2. All those pieces of land situated in T.S. No. 20 known as Fort Canning Park,
described as follows:

          T.S. No.            Lot No.        Estimated Area
No. 20                                       (square metres)
                    Part of 00501X     166,837.6
Total               00500N             11,768.4
                    00551C             1,000
                                       179,606

     The boundaries of these areas are more particularly delineated on
Plan No. NP 5.9.1.9 (Fort Canning Park) filed in the Registry of the National
Parks Board.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.           Parks and Trees Act 2005                         72

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

                                           PART 2

                                   NATURE RESERVES

   All those pieces of land situated in the Mukims of Sembawang, Mandai, Ulu
Kalang, Bukit Timah and Toa Payoh, forming parts of the Public Utilities Board
Catchment Area, known as the Central Catchment Nature Reserve, described as
follows:

        Mukim No.            Lot No.        Estimated Area
No. 13 Sembawang                            (square metres)
                   Part of 04120X     339,879
No. 14 Mandai      Part of 04121L     1,911,045
                   Part of 04122C     409
No. 15 Ulu Kalang  04123M             31,379
                   04513P             52
                   04518X             1,951
                   04522L             16,587
                   04524M             65,406
                   Part of 00187M     11,867,890
                   Part of 00289C     1,832
                   Part of 01253P     193
                   Part of 01255A     85
                   Part of 01256K     190
                   Part of 99741N     25
                   Part of 99871P     1,053
                   00028N             14,438
                   00030K             22,877
                   00031N             7,660
                   Part of 00046X     284
                   Part of 01370W     747
                   01371V             550
                   Part of 02505T     6,273,325

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
73                  Parks and Trees Act 2005                  2020 Ed.

                    THE SCHEDULE — continued

        Mukim No.             Lot No.        Estimated Area
No. 16 Bukit Timah                           (square metres)
No. 17 Toa Payoh    Part of 02506A     4,336,843
Total               99676T             14,679
                    Part of 99686M     56,201
                    Part of 01224N     387
                    Part of 01226L     2,081
                    Part of 01231M     1,532
                    02041M             1,871,333
                    Part of 02044P     12,561
                    03797X             231
                    03799C             19
                    Part of 05941W     3,577,758
                                       30,431,482

     The boundaries of these areas are more particularly delineated on
Plan No. NP 5.9.1.9 (Central Catchment Nature Reserve) filed in the Registry
of the National Parks Board.

 2. All those pieces of land situated in Mukim No. 16, Bukit Timah, known as
Bukit Timah Nature Reserve, described as follows:

        Mukim No.             Lot No.        Estimated Area
No. 16 Bukit Timah                           (square metres)
                    Part of 00087A     43,680
                    00354A             7,595
                    Part of 00357X     654,750
                    01176P             365
                    01636T             9,698
                    Part of 01637A     244,306
                    Part of 01916P     11,347
                    Part of 02042W     357,229
                    Part of 02044P     24,027

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.             Parks and Trees Act 2005                           74

         Mukim No.   THE SCHEDULE — continued

Total                          Lot No.                 Estimated Area
                                                       (square metres)
                     99501L                      11,715
                     Part of 99509K              137,107
                     Part of 99531X              4,840
                     Part of 99679X              43,222
                     99762V                      31
                     Part of 99763P              76,530
                                                 1,626,442

     The boundaries of these areas are more particularly delineated on
Plan No. NP 5.9.1.9 (Bukit Timah Nature Reserve) filed in the Registry of the
National Parks Board.

 3. All those pieces of land (including foreshore) situated in Mukim No. 3, Pasir
Panjang, known as Labrador Nature Reserve, described as follows:

        Mukim No.              Lot No.                 Estimated Area
No. 3 Pasir Panjang                                    (square metres)
                     99995P                      993
Total                99992M                      1,553
                     Part of 01019A              40,316
                     Part of 01580X              49,135
                     Part of 00492M              7,881
                                                 99,878

     The boundaries of these areas are more particularly delineated on
Plan No. NP 5.9.1.9 (Labrador Nature Reserve) filed in the Registry of the
National Parks Board.

 4. All those pieces of land (including foreshore) situated in Mukim No. 12, Lim
Chu Kang, known as Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve, described as follows:

Mukim No.                               Lot No.        Estimated Area
                                                       (square metres)
No. 12 Lim Chu Kang 00990N
                                00020N           117,088

                                                 32,775

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
75                  Parks and Trees Act 2005              2020 Ed.
         Mukim No.
                    THE SCHEDULE — continued
Total
                              Lot No.        Estimated Area
                                             (square metres)
                    01312V             20,049
                    01311W             25,798
                    01313P             39,865
                    01314T             13,967
                    01324M             33,646
                    01325W             11,158
                    01023X             2,818
                    Part of 01255P     57,663
                    Part of 00989L     156,177
                    Part of 01310M     54,933
                    Part of 01240V     512,050
                    Part of 01590K     235,718
                                       1,313,705

     The boundaries of these areas are more particularly delineated on
Plan No. NP 5.9.1.9 (Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserve) filed in the Registry of
the National Parks Board.

                    PART 3

                                      MARINE PARK

   The waters within the limits bounded by straight lines joining the following
geographical positions (position in WGS84) (it is bounded by the coastline
whenever the line meets the coastline):

(a) (1) 1°13.715'N  103°50.373'E on the southern shore of Pulau
                    Tekukor

(2) 1°13.705'N      103°50.336'E

(3) 1°13.845'N      103°50.178'E

(4) 1°14.009'N      103°50.112'E

(5) 1°14.066'N      103°50.150'E

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
2020 Ed.            Parks and Trees Act 2005                        76

                    THE SCHEDULE — continued

(6) 1°13.983'N      103°50.193'E on the northern shore of Pulau
                    Tekukor,

including the seaward side of Pulau Tekukor;

(b) (1) 1°12.775'N  103°50.220'E

(2) 1°12.714'N      103°50.170'E

(3) 1°12.694'N      103°50.028'E

(4) 1°12.728'N      103°49.959'E

(5) 1°12.937'N      103°49.821'E

(6) 1°13.049'N      103°49.878'E

(7) 1°13.068'N      103°49.919'E

(8) 1°13.040'N      103°50.013'E

(9) 1°12.959'N      103°50.078'E

(10) 1°12.924'N     103°50.164'E

(11) 1°12.881'N     103°50.182'E

(12) 1°12.842'N     103°50.198'E,

to the point of origin at (1), including Pulau Subar Darat and Pulau Subar
Laut;

(c) (1) 1°12.801'N  103°51.099'E on the southern shore of Pulau
                    Sakijang Bendera

(2) 1°12.803'N      103°51.002'E

(3) 1°13.016'N      103°50.845'E

(4) 1°13.141'N      103°50.721'E

(5) 1°13.216'N      103°50.643'E

(6) 1°13.289'N      103°50.582'E

(7) 1°13.381'N      103°50.545'E

(8) 1°13.438'N      103°50.615'E

(9) 1°13.393'N      103°50.653'E on the northern shore of Pulau
                    Sakijang Bendera,

including the seaward side of Pulau Sakijang Bendera.

                                                                    [9/2017]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                     PARKS AND TREES ACT 2005

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                             PART 1
                BOTANIC GARDENS ACT
      (CHAPTER 300, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 32 of 1957 — Botanic Gardens Ordinance, 1957

Bill                  : 113/1957

First Reading         : 21 August 1957

Second Reading        : 11 September 1957

Notice of Amendments  : 11 September 1957

Third Reading         : 11 September 1957

Commencement          : 15 August 1958

Note: This Ordinance repealed the Raffles Societies Ordinance
        (Chapter 312, 1955 Revised Edition) so far as it relates to the
        Botanical Gardens.

2. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      ii

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

3. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

4. 1970 Revised Edition — Botanic Gardens Act (Chapter 300)

Operation             : 31 August 1971

                                       PART 2
TREES AND PLANTS (PRESERVATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF

                            AMENITIES) ACT, 1970
                                (ACT 59 OF 1970)

5. Act 59 of 1970 — Trees and Plants (Preservation and Improvement of
                           Amenities) Act, 1970

Bill                  : 48/1970

First Reading         : 4 November 1970

Second and Third Readings : 30 December 1970

Commencement          : 12 February 1971

                                  PART 3
                     PARKS AND TREES ACT
           (CHAPTER 216, 1996 REVISED EDITION)

6. Act 14 of 1975 — Parks and Trees Act, 1975

Bill                  : 18/1975

First Reading         : 17 March 1975

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1975

Commencement          : 15 May 1975

7. Act 27 of 1982 — Parks and Trees (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill                  : 18/1982

First Reading         : 27 July 1982

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
               iii

Second and Third Readings : 31 August 1982

Commencement   : 5 November 1982

8. 1985 Revised Edition — Parks and Trees Act (Chapter 216)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

9. Act 12 of 1987 — Parks and Trees (Amendment) Act 1987

Bill           : 3/1987

First Reading  : 4 March 1987

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1987

Commencement   : 1 May 1987

10. Act 10 of 1990 — National Parks Act 1990
     (Amendments made by section 42(2) of the above Act)

Bill           : 12/1990

First Reading  : 13 March 1990

Second and Third Readings : 29 March 1990

Commencement   : 6 June 1990 (section 42(2))

11. 1991 Revised Edition — Parks and Trees Act (Chapter 216)

Operation      : 1 March 1991

12. Act 25 of 1994 — Parks and Trees (Amendment) Act 1994

Bill           : 32/1994

First Reading  : 31 October 1994

Second and Third Readings : 5 December 1994

Commencement   : 29 January 1995

13. Act 22 of 1996 — National Parks Act 1996
     (Amendments made by section 42 read with the Sixth Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 13/1996

First Reading  : 2 May 1996

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 1996

Commencement   : 1 July 1996 (section 42 read with the
                     Sixth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                iv

14. 1996 Revised Edition — Parks and Trees Act (Chapter 216)

Operation       : 27 December 1996

                               PART 4
                PARKS AND TREES ACT 2005

                   (2020 REVISED EDITION)

15. Act 4 of 2005 — Parks and Trees Act 2005

Bill            : 55/2004

First Reading   : 19 October 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement    : 1 August 2005

16. 2006 Revised Edition — Parks and Trees Act (Chapter 216)

Operation       : 31 July 2006

17. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 70 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 70 of the Sixth Schedule)

18. Act 9 of 2017 — Parks and Trees (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill            : 4/2017

First Reading   : 9 January 2017

Second and Third Readings : 7 February 2017

Commencement    : 20 November 2017

19. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendments) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 14 of the above Act)

Bill            : 4/2019

First Reading   : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
                      v

Commencement          : 1 April 2019 (section 14)

20. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 109 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 109 of the Schedule)

21. 2020 Revised Edition — Parks and Trees Act 2005

Operation             : 31 December 2021

22. Act 23 of 2023 — Building and Related Works (Miscellaneous
                             Amendments) Act 2023

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 19/2023

First Reading         : 9 May 2023

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2023

Commencement          : 18 December 2023

23. Act 42 of 2022 — State Lands Protection Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 35/2022

First Reading         : 7 November 2022

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
.                                 vi
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
    COMPARATIVE TABLE
PARKS AND TREES ACT 2005

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                    2006 Ed.
4—(5)                      4—(4A)

   (6)                        (5)
   (7)                        (6)
   (8)                        (7)
   (9)                        (8)
   (10)                       (9)
41—(2)                     41—(1A)
   (3)                        (1B)
   (4)                        (1C)
   (5)                        (1D)
   (6)                        (2)
—                          42—(2) [Deleted by Act 9 of 2017]
42—(2)                        (3)
   (3)                        (4)
[Omitted as spent]         64—(4)
[Omitted as spent]            (5)
[Omitted as spent]            (6)
64—(4)                        (7)
[Omitted as spent]            (8)
[Omitted as spent]            (9)
   (5)                        (10)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/11/2024
