THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                        MEDISHIELD LIFE
                        SCHEME ACT 2015

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                                                                                                             2020 Ed.

            MediShield Life
           Scheme Act 2015

                           ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                                            PART 1
                                      PRELIMINARY
Section
     1. Short title and commencement
     2. Interpretation

                                            PART 2
                             MEDISHIELD LIFE SCHEME
     3. Establishment of MediShield Life Scheme
     3A. Approval of medical institution in respect of approved medical
            treatment or services
     3B. Revocation or suspension of approval of medical institution in
            respect of approved medical treatment or services
     4. Premium
     5. Refund
     6. Recovery of amounts paid in excess and short payments
     7. MediShield Life Fund
     8. MediShield Life Council
     9. Delegation of functions and powers
   10. Nature of rights and benefits under Scheme

                                            PART 3
               RECOVERY OF OUTSTANDING PREMIUMS, ETC.
   11. Demand note
   12. Defaulter’s agent for recovery of outstanding premiums
   13. Defaulter’s agent in relation to joint moneys
   14. Payment by Government
   15. Suit for outstanding premiums
   16. Recovery from defaulter leaving Singapore
   17. Penalty for late payment of premium

                                                           1

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                      MediShield Life

2020 Ed.              Scheme Act 2015                                  2

Section
   18. Recovery body

                                        PART 4

                                      OFFENCES

19. False or incorrect health declaration, means declaration or claim
         application

20. Investigators
21. Power to obtain information
22. Obstructing investigators in execution of their duties
23. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
24. Composition of offences
25. Conduct of prosecutions

                                        PART 5

                      DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

26. Confidential information
27. Health information
28. Means information, household composition, etc.
29. Offence and immunity relating to disclosure
30. General

                      PART 6

                      MISCELLANEOUS

31.       Change of address
32.       Certificate of officer authorised by Board to be evidence
33.       Protection from personal liability
33A.      Service of documents
33B.      Service of demand notes
34.       Regulations
35.       Transitional and saving provisions

An Act to provide for the MediShield Life Scheme and matters
  related thereto.

                [10 March 2015: Except sections 3 to 8, 10 to 18, 31, 32
                                                                 and 35 to 38 ;

                                                    31 July 2015: Section 8 ;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
   MediShield Life

3  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

   1 November 2015: Sections 3 to 7, 10, 31, 32(1) and 35
                                                             to 38 ;

                                    1 November 2016: Part 3 ;
                                 1 April 2020: Section 32(2) ]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “approved medical institution” means a medical institution that
         is approved under section 3A;

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

      “approved medical treatment or services” means any medical
         treatment or medical services approved by the Minister for
         the purposes of section 3;

      “authorised person” —

              (a) for the purposes of section 27, means a person
                   authorised by the Minister to have access to
                   information obtained under section 27(1) for the
                   purposes described in section 27(1)(a) or (b); and

              (b) for the purposes of section 28, means a person
                   authorised by the Minister to have access to means
                   information obtained under section 28(1) for a
                   purpose mentioned in section 28(1A);

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

      “Board” means the Central Provident Fund Board constituted
         under section 3 of the CPF Act;

      “Central Provident Fund” means the Central Provident Fund
         established under section 6 of the CPF Act;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          4

“claimable medical treatment or services”, in relation to an
   approved medical institution, means any approved medical
   treatment or services —

          (a) in respect of which the approved medical institution
               is approved under section 3A; and

        (b) that is provided in accordance with the conditions
             mentioned in section 3A;

                                                                       [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

“Council” means the MediShield Life Council established under
   section 8;

“CPF Act” means the Central Provident Fund Act 1953;

“CPF member” means a “member of the Fund” or “member” as
   defined in section 2(1) of the CPF Act;

“defaulter” means a person liable to pay an outstanding
   premium;

“Fund” means the MediShield Life Fund referred to in section 7,
   and includes the MediShield Fund;

“health declaration” means a declaration, as to whether a person
   has any pre‑existing medical condition, submitted to the
   Board for the purposes of determining whether premium
   loading under the Scheme applies to that person;

“healthcare-related public scheme” means a public scheme,
   prescribed for the purposes of Part 5, that is established to
   provide any grant, subsidy or benefit for the payment of any
   healthcare expenses, and includes a relevant public scheme;

“household composition” means information on the identity and
   particulars of the persons who comprise a household for the
   purposes of determining whether a member of that household
   satisfies the eligibility criteria for a grant, subsidy or benefit
   under a relevant public scheme or any tier or category within
   such eligibility criteria;

“insured person” means a person who is insured under the
   Scheme;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
   MediShield Life

5  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

   “investigator” means a public officer appointed under
      section 20(1) or an officer of the Board appointed under
      section 20(2);

   “IRAS” means the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore
      established under section 3 of the Inland Revenue Authority
      of Singapore Act 1992;

   “licensable healthcare service” has the meaning given by
      section 3(1) of the Healthcare Services Act 2020;

                                                                          [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   “means declaration” means a declaration, submitted to a person
      appointed by the Minister, for the purposes of determining a
      person’s household income or eligibility for a grant, subsidy
      or benefit under a relevant public scheme;

   “means information” means —

   (a) any documents, information, returns, assessment lists
        or copies of such lists relating to the income or items
        of income of any person to which section 6 of the
        Income Tax Act 1947 applies;

   (b) any documents, information, returns and assessments
        relating to the business, the value of the supply of any
        goods and services, or the income of any taxable
        person to which section 6 of the Goods and Services
        Tax Act 1993 applies;

   (c) information obtained under the Property Tax
       Act 1960, including the Valuation List;

   (d) information obtained under the Stamp Duties
        Act 1929; and

   (e) information relating to income or items of income of
       any person in the possession of any Government
       department or other public authority;

   “medical institution” means a provider of a licensable healthcare
      service that is licensed under the Healthcare Services Act
      2020 to provide that licensable healthcare service;

                                [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          6

“medisave account” means a medisave account maintained
   under section 13 of the CPF Act;

“MediShield Fund” means the fund called the MediShield Fund
   referred to in section 56 of the CPF Act as in force
   immediately before 1 November 2015;

“MediShield Scheme” means the medical insurance scheme
   called the MediShield Scheme referred to in section 53 of the
   CPF Act as in force immediately before 1 November 2015;

“outstanding premium” means the amount of premium due
   which remains unpaid, and includes any interest imposed
   under section 11(1)(a) in respect of the premium and any
   penalty imposed under section 17 in respect of the premium;

“premium” means a premium payable for insurance cover under
   the Scheme;

“prescribed public scheme” means a public scheme prescribed
   for the purposes of Part 5;

“public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
   under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

“public scheme” means any scheme to provide financial relief,
   assistance or support to citizens or permanent residents of
   Singapore, or any part of them, that is established —

          (a) by or under any written law and administered by a
               public authority; or

          (b) by the Government in any other manner;

“recovery body” means any statutory body prescribed as a
   recovery body under section 18(1);

“relevant authority” means IRAS, the Commissioner of Stamp
   Duties, the Comptroller of Goods and Services Tax, the
   Comptroller of Income Tax, the Comptroller of Property Tax,
   the Chief Assessor, or any Government department or public
   authority in possession of means information;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
   MediShield Life

7  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

   “relevant public scheme” means a public scheme to provide any
      grant, subsidy or benefit for the payment of a premium
      payable under this Act;

   “relevant regulations” means any regulations made under this
      Act;

   “Scheme” means the medical insurance scheme called the
      MediShield Life Scheme referred to in section 3.

 (2) A person has a pre-existing medical condition in relation to that
person’s insurance cover under the Scheme (called in this subsection
the relevant insurance cover), if the person has a medical condition
specified by the Minister for the purposes of premium loading under
this Act immediately before —

   (a) the date that person’s relevant insurance cover begins; or

   (b) if that person has continuously had relevant insurance
        cover since 1 November 2015, and was continuously
        insured under the MediShield Scheme immediately before
        that date, the earliest date from which that person was so
        continuously insured under the MediShield Scheme.

   (3) For the purposes of this Act —

   (a) “premium loading” means any additional amount payable
        as premium, over and above the premium payable for an
        insurance cover under the Scheme; and

   (b) the Minister is to determine the criteria for whether and
        when premium loading is to apply to any person.

 (4) For the purposes of this Act, the following apply for the
purposes of reckoning the age of an individual:

   (a) an individual is taken to have attained a particular age
        expressed in years on the relevant anniversary of the
        individual’s birth;

   (b) a reference to the anniversary of the birth of an individual
        in paragraph (a) is a reference to the day on which the
        anniversary occurs;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          8

          (c) where an individual was born on 29 February in any year,
              then in any subsequent year that is not a leap year, the
              anniversary of that individual’s birth is taken to be 1 March
              in that subsequent year;

(d) if the day on which an individual was born cannot be
     ascertained but the month of the individual’s birth can be
     ascertained, the individual is taken to be born on the first
     day of the month in which the individual was born;

       (e) if the month in which an individual was born cannot be
            ascertained, the individual is taken to be born in January.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (5) A reference to a health declaration or a means declaration in this
Act includes a reference to a health declaration or a means declaration
(as the case may be) made before 1 November 2015, in anticipation of
the establishment of the Scheme.

                                    PART 2

                      MEDISHIELD LIFE SCHEME

Establishment of MediShield Life Scheme

 3.—(1) A medical insurance scheme, known as the MediShield
Life Scheme, is established for the purpose of paying the whole or
part of the costs incurred by an insured person for any approved
medical treatment or services that is a claimable medical treatment or
services received by the insured person from an approved medical
institution during the period when the insured person is insured under
the Scheme.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) The Board is to administer the Scheme in accordance with this
Act.

 (3) The Scheme applies to every person who is a citizen or
permanent resident of Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
   MediShield Life

9  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

Approval of medical institution in respect of approved medical
treatment or services

 3A.—(1) A medical institution may apply to the Minister, in any
form and manner that the Minister requires, to be approved in respect
of any approved medical treatment or services.

 (2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), the
Minister may —

   (a) approve the medical institution in respect of any approved
        medical treatment or services that is or is part of a
        licensable healthcare service that the medical institution is
        licensed to provide under the Healthcare Services Act
        2020, subject to any conditions that the Minister thinks fit,
        including conditions specifying the service delivery mode
        by which the medical treatment or services is to be
        provided; or

   (b) refuse to grant the approval.

 (3) In addition, the Minister may grant the approval mentioned in
subsection (2)(a) on the Minister’s own initiative.

   (4) To avoid doubt, where —

   (a) a medical institution is licensed under the Healthcare
        Services Act 2020 to provide 2 or more licensable
        healthcare services (whether each of the same or a
        different type); and

   (b) the medical institution provides one or more approved
        medical treatments or services as part of each licensable
        healthcare service,

then, under subsection (2)(a) or (3) —

   (c) the Minister may, in respect of a licensable healthcare
       service, approve the medical institution for one or more of
       the approved medical treatments or services provided as
       part of that licensable healthcare service;

   (d) the Minister may approve different approved medical
        treatments or services under paragraph (c) for different
        licensable healthcare services; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          10

          (e) the Minister need not approve an approved medical
              treatment or services for the medical institution in
              respect of every one of its licensable healthcare services.

(5) To avoid doubt, where —

(a) a medical institution is licensed under the Healthcare
     Services Act 2020 to provide a licensable healthcare
     service by 2 or more service delivery modes (called in this
     section authorised service delivery modes); and

(b) the medical institution provides one or more approved
     medical treatments or services as part of the licensable
     healthcare service,

then, under subsection (2)(a) or (3) —

          (c) the Minister may, in respect of any approved medical
              treatment or services, approve the medical institution for
              that approved medical treatment or services when provided
              by any authorised service delivery mode, or only when
              provided by one or some of those authorised service
              delivery modes;

(d) the Minister may in an approval under paragraph (c)
     specify different authorised service delivery modes for
     different approved medical treatments or services; and

          (e) the Minister need not approve the medical institution for
              every one of those approved medical treatments or
              services.

 (6) The Minister may at any time modify a condition of an approval
imposed under this section.

 (7) Where an approved medical institution ceases to be approved
under the Healthcare Services Act 2020 to provide a licensable
healthcare service by a service delivery mode, the Minister may,
without giving the approved medical institution an opportunity to be
heard, modify a condition of the approval imposed under this section
for the purpose of providing that the approved medical treatment or
services must not be provided by that service delivery mode.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                       MediShield Life

11                     Scheme Act 2015                       2020 Ed.

(8) In this section —

    “modify”, in relation to a condition of an approval, includes
       deleting, varying and substituting a condition, and adding a
       condition;

    “service delivery mode” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
       of the Healthcare Services Act 2020.

                                                                           [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Revocation or suspension of approval of medical institution in
respect of approved medical treatment or services

 3B.—(1) The Minister may revoke an approval granted to a
medical institution in respect of any approved medical treatment or
services if —

       (a) the approval has been obtained by the medical institution
            by fraud, or the medical institution has, in connection with
            the application for the grant of the approval, made a
            statement or provided any information or document that is
            false, misleading or inaccurate in a material particular;

       (b) there is a reasonable likelihood that the medical institution
            is contravening or not complying with, or has contravened
            or failed to comply with, a condition of the approval
            imposed under section 3A, or any provision of this Act;

       (c) the medical institution is, or is likely to be, declared a
            bankrupt (if a natural person) or has gone, or is likely to go,
            into compulsory or voluntary liquidation other than for the
            purpose of amalgamation or reconstruction;

       (d) the medical institution has made any assignment to, or
            composition with, the medical institution’s creditors or is
            unable to pay its debts;

       (e) any of the following persons has been convicted, whether
            in Singapore or elsewhere, of an offence involving fraud or
            dishonesty, or of an offence the conviction for which
            involves a finding that the person convicted had acted
            fraudulently or dishonestly, whether the applicable offence
            is committed before, on or after the date of commencement

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          12

          of section 4 of the MediShield Life Scheme (Amendment)
          Act 2024:

          (i) the medical institution;

          (ii) any key appointment holder, Principal Officer or
               Clinical Governance Officer of the medical
               institution;

          (iii) any medical practitioner employed or engaged by the
                medical institution to provide any approved medical
                treatment or services;

          (f) the licence granted to the medical institution under the
              Healthcare Services Act 2020 authorising the medical
              institution to provide the licensable healthcare service that
              the approved medical treatment or services is or is a part of,
              is revoked or suspended;

(g) all of the following conditions are satisfied:

          (i) the medical institution was approved under
              section 3A in respect of that approved medical
              treatment or services on the condition that the
              approved medical treatment or services is provided
              by certain authorised service delivery modes (as
              defined in section 3A(5)(a));

          (ii) in respect of the licensable healthcare service that the
               approved medical treatment or services is or is a part
               of, the medical institution ceases to be approved
               under the Healthcare Services Act 2020 to provide
               the licensable healthcare service by every one of
               those authorised service delivery modes;

(h) the Minister considers it in the public interest to do so; or

          (i) any other ground that is prescribed by the Minister is
              satisfied.

 (2) The Minister may, if the Minister considers it desirable to do
so —

(a) suspend the approval of a medical institution in respect of
     any approved medical treatment or services for a specified

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                       MediShield Life

13                     Scheme Act 2015                       2020 Ed.

    period, instead of revoking the approval under
    subsection (1); and

    (b) at any time —

    (i) extend the suspension for a specified period; or

    (ii) cancel the suspension.

 (3) The Minister must not revoke an approval under subsection (1),
or suspend an approval under subsection (2), without giving the
medical institution concerned written notice of the Minister’s
intention to do so and a reasonable opportunity to make
representations as to why the approval should not be revoked or
suspended.

(4) Subsection (3) does not apply where the medical institution —

    (a) if a natural person — has died or is adjudged bankrupt; or

    (b) in any other case — has been dissolved or wound up or has
         otherwise ceased to exist.

 (5) Where any approval of a medical institution for an approved
medical treatment or services is revoked or suspended —

    (a) the approved medical treatment or services is not a
         claimable medical treatment or services in relation to
         that medical institution where it is provided during the
         period of suspension or on or after the date of revocation,
         unless the Minister otherwise permits; but

    (b) the revocation or suspension does not affect any claim for
         any such approved medical treatment or services provided
         before or after the period of suspension, or before the date
         of revocation.

 (6) Where the Minister revokes or suspends any approval of a
medical institution in respect of any approved medical treatment or
services under this section, the medical institution must immediately
inform all the patients and customers that are or may be provided the
licensable healthcare service that the approved medical treatment or
services is or is a part of, of the revocation or suspension.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                       MediShield Life

2020 Ed.               Scheme Act 2015                             14

(7) For the purposes of this section —

(a) a medical institution that is a company is unable to pay its
     debts if it is deemed to be unable to pay its debts under
     section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
     Dissolution Act 2018;

(b) a medical institution that is an unregistered company is
     unable to pay its debts if it is deemed to be unable to pay its
     debts under section 246(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring
     and Dissolution Act 2018; and

          (c) a medical institution that is a limited liability partnership is
              unable to pay its debts if it is deemed to be unable to pay its
              debts under paragraph 3(2) of the Fifth Schedule to the
              Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005.

(8) In this section —

“Clinical Governance Officer”, “key appointment holder” and
   “Principal Officer” have the meanings given by section 2(1)
   of the Healthcare Services Act 2020;

“company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“limited liability partnership” has the meaning given by
   section 4(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“unregistered company” has the meaning given by section 245
   of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                        [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Premium

 4.—(1) The premium for each insurance period (called in this
section the relevant insurance period) is to be paid —

       (a) not later than 30 days after the beginning of the relevant
            insurance period, or on or before such later date as the
            Board may permit;

       (b) in such manner as the Board may permit; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

15  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (c) by all or any of the following persons, and in such
        proportion, as the Board may require:

    (i) the insured person;

              (ii) a parent or both parents of the insured person, subject
                   to any provision in the relevant regulations, if the
                   insured person has not attained 21 years of age at the
                   beginning of the relevant insurance period.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (1A) The premium for each relevant insurance period is the amount
specified in a prescribed manner, which may include a website.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (1B) For the purposes of subsection (1A), different rates of
premiums may be specified for different classes of insured persons.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) Despite anything in the CPF Act, the Board is entitled to deduct,
from the amount standing to a person’s credit in that person’s
medisave account, the whole or any part of the premium for the
relevant insurance period (including any interest or penalty imposed
under section 11(1)(a) or 17, as the case may be, in respect of that
premium) —

    (a) payable by that person under subsection (1)(c)(i) or (ii); or

    (b) payable by any other person, in the circumstances
         prescribed in the relevant regulations.

 (3) In subsection (1), “parent”, in relation to an insured person who
has not attained 21 years of age, includes —

    (a) an adoptive parent of the insured person;

    (b) a step-parent of the insured person; or

    (c) a guardian, or any person who has the actual custody, of the
        insured person.

Refund

 5.—(1) Where the whole or any part of the premium paid by a
person is liable to be refunded under this Act, the amount may be
refunded —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                       MediShield Life

2020 Ed.               Scheme Act 2015                             16

(a) into that person’s account in the Central Provident Fund; or

(b) in such other manner as the Board may determine.

 (2) The Board is entitled to recover on behalf of the Government
from any amount which is liable to be refunded under this Act —

(a) any Government grant for the payment of the premium
     payable for a person’s insurance cover under the Scheme;
     and

(b) any interest which the person is liable to pay the
     Government under the terms of the Government grant.

 (3) Where a person who has paid in cash any sum towards the
premium for any insurance period (called in this section the relevant
person), whether for the relevant person or for any other person, dies
before the start of that insurance period, and the sum does not exceed
such amount as the Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,
specify —

(a) the Board may pay to a proper claimant the whole or any
     part, as the Board may determine, of the sum; and

(b) the receipt of the proper claimant is a discharge to the
     Board for the payment to the proper claimant under
     paragraph (a).

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect any recourse which any person
may have against a proper claimant for an amount paid to the proper
claimant under subsection (3)(a).

(5) In this section —

“child” means a legitimate child and includes any child adopted
   by virtue of an order of court under any written law for the
   time being in force in Singapore, Malaysia or Brunei
   Darussalam;

“parent” includes —

          (a) an adoptive parent of the relevant person;

          (b) a step-parent of the relevant person; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

17  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (c) a guardian, or any person who has the actual custody,
        of the relevant person;

    “proper claimant” means a person who —

    (a) claims to be entitled to a sum referred to in
         subsection (3) on the death of a relevant person, as
         personal representative of the relevant person; or

    (b) claims to be entitled (whether for the person’s own
         benefit or not) to a sum referred to in subsection (3)
         on the death of a relevant person, and is the widower,
         widow, child, grandchild, parent, brother, sister,
         nephew, niece, grandparent, uncle or aunt of the
         relevant person.

Recovery of amounts paid in excess and short payments

 6.—(1) If, on account of any material change in the information
available to the Board or the correction of any error, or in any other
circumstances prescribed in the relevant regulations, the Board finds
that there is any shortfall in any premium paid in respect of any
insurance period by or for any person insured or to be insured under
the Scheme, the amount of the shortfall is payable, by all or any of the
following persons, and in such proportion, as the Board may require:

       (a) a person by whom the premium is payable under
            section 4(1)(c)(i) or (ii);

       (b) a person by whom the premium is payable under
            section 4(2)(b).

 (2) If, on account of any material change in the information
available to the Board or the correction of any error, or in any other
circumstances prescribed in the relevant regulations, the Board finds
that any benefit under the Scheme has been paid in excess of the
amount that ought to have been paid under the Scheme, the excess
payment is to be repaid to the Fund in accordance with the relevant
regulations —

       (a) by the insured person; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          18

(b) if the excess payment has been paid by the Board directly
     to the credit of an approved medical institution, by that
     approved medical institution.

 (3) The Board may charge an insured person, a person by whom the
premium is payable or an approved medical institution an
administrative fee prescribed in the relevant regulations, if any
material change, error or prescribed circumstances referred to in
subsection (1) or (2) arises from incorrect information which is —

(a) provided by the insured person, the person by whom the
     premium is payable or the approved medical institution, as
     the case may be; and

(b) included in a health declaration, means declaration or
     claim application made under the Scheme.

 (4) Sections 4(2), 7(2), 32(2) and 34(2)(e) and Part 3 apply, with
such modifications as may be prescribed in the relevant regulations,
to any amount payable under this section as they apply to a premium.

MediShield Life Fund

 7.—(1) The MediShield Fund is renamed the MediShield Life Fund
and is to be administered in accordance with this Act.

 (2) The MediShield Life Fund comprises —

       (a) all premiums (including interest, costs and penalties under
            sections 11(1)(a), 15(3) and 17, respectively) and any other
            sums paid under the Scheme;

       (b) all premiums under the MediShield Scheme paid on or
            after 1 November 2015;

       (c) all Government grants paid to the credit of the Fund for the
            purposes of the Scheme;

       (d) all gifts or donations given or made by any person for
            payment into the Fund, or to the Government or the Board
            for the purposes of the Scheme or for payment into the
            Fund;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

19  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (e) all investments out of moneys in the Fund under
        subsection (5) and the proceeds of any such investments,
        including the net income from such investments;

    (f) all composition sums collected under section 24; and

    (g) all moneys in the MediShield Fund immediately before
         1 November 2015.

(3) All payments under the Scheme are to be met from the Fund.

 (4) Any costs or expenses incurred in the administration or
enforcement of the Scheme may be met from the Fund.

 (5) The Board may invest the moneys in the Fund in accordance
with the standard investment power of statutory boards as defined in
section 33A of the Interpretation Act 1965, except that the Board is
subject to any general or specific directions from the Minister
(instead of the Minister charged with the responsibility for the
Board).

 (6) Every amount paid into or out of the MediShield Fund before
1 November 2015 to defray any costs and expenses incurred for the
purposes of the MediShield Scheme or the Scheme is taken to be and
always to have been validly paid, and no legal proceedings are to lie
or be instituted or maintained in any court of law on account of or in
respect of any such payment.

 (7) The Board is not liable for any payment under the Scheme, or
for any costs or expenses incurred in the administration or
enforcement of the Scheme, by reason of anything done, purported
to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Board in good faith and with
reasonable care.

MediShield Life Council
 8.—(1) A MediShield Life Council is established, comprising the

following members, all of whom are to be appointed by the Minister:
       (a) a Chairperson;
       (b) a Deputy Chairperson;
       (c) at least 2 and not more than 15 other individuals.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          20

 (2) In addition to the functions and powers conferred on the Council
by other provisions of this Act, the Council also has the following
functions:

(a) to make recommendations to the Minister on policy and
     scheme parameters to ensure that the Scheme provides
     effective protection for citizens and permanent residents of
     Singapore in an affordable and sustainable manner;

(b) to review the administration of the Scheme to ensure
     alignment with the directions of the Council;

          (c) to advise the Minister on matters related to the investment
              of the Fund, and any other matters related to the Scheme or
              the Fund as the Minister may direct.

 (3) The terms and conditions of the appointment of the members of
the Council are to be determined by the Minister.

 (4) The Council may appoint from among its own members or from
other persons who are not members such number of committees as the
Council thinks fit for purposes which, in the opinion of the Council,
would be better managed by means of such committees.

 (5) Unless otherwise provided by or under this Act, the Council
may determine the procedure to be adopted by the Council for the
purposes of this Act.

Delegation of functions and powers

 9.—(1) The Council may in respect of a specified matter or class of
matters, by writing, delegate any of its functions, duties or powers
under this Act to a member of the Council or a committee appointed
under section 8(4), except the power of delegation conferred by this
subsection.

 (2) The Board may in respect of a specified matter or class of
matters, by writing, delegate any of its functions, duties or powers
under this Act to a member, an officer or a committee of the Board,
except the power of delegation conferred by this subsection.

 (3) The chief executive officer of the Board may in respect of a
specified matter or class of matters, by writing, delegate any of the
chief executive officer’s functions, duties or powers under this Act to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

21  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

a member or an officer of the Board, except the power of delegation
conferred by this subsection.

 (4) A recovery body may in respect of a specified matter or class of
matters, by writing, delegate any of its powers under this Act to any
officer of the recovery body, except the power of delegation conferred
by this subsection.

 (5) Without affecting the power of delegation under section 36 of
the Interpretation Act 1965, any Minister who has the power to issue
an approval or a direction under Part 5 may in respect of any specified
matter or class of matters, by writing, delegate that power to any
public officer.

 (6) Every member, officer, committee or public officer purporting
to act pursuant to a delegation under this section is, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, presumed to be acting in accordance with the
terms of the delegation.

 (7) A delegation under this section is revocable at will, and no such
delegation prevents the exercise of any power, function or duty by the
Minister, the Council, the Board, the chief executive officer of the
Board or the recovery body (as the case may be) which makes the
delegation.

Nature of rights and benefits under Scheme

 10.—(1) The rights and benefits of an insured person arising from
the insured person’s insurance cover under the Scheme are not
assignable or transferable.

 (2) A policy of insurance issued under the Scheme does not create
any legal or equitable trust.

 (3) Section 73 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act 1886
and section 132 of the Insurance Act 1966 do not apply to any policy
of insurance issued under the Scheme.

 (4) The Insurance Act 1966 does not apply to the Scheme or
anything done under this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
             MediShield Life

2020 Ed.     Scheme Act 2015                                       22

             PART 3

RECOVERY OF OUTSTANDING PREMIUMS, ETC.

Demand note

 11.—(1) If the whole or any part of the premium payable for an
insurance period remains unpaid at the expiry of such period as the
Board may permit (being not less than one month) after the beginning
of that insurance period —

(a) interest may be imposed from time to time on any
     outstanding premium for that insurance period
     (excluding any penalty imposed under section 17), to run
     from the beginning of that insurance period or from such
     later period as the Board may determine at the prescribed
     rates; and

(b) sections 12 to 16 may be applied to the outstanding
     premium.

 (2) A recovery body must serve a demand note on a defaulter liable
to pay any outstanding premium —

(a) if any interest or penalty is to be imposed on the defaulter
     under subsection (1)(a) or section 17, as the case may be;
     and

(b) before any power under section 12, 13, 14, 15 or 16 is
     exercised to recover that outstanding premium from the
     defaulter.

(3) A demand note must state —

(a) the outstanding premium which is payable by the defaulter;
     and

(b) any interest imposed under subsection (1)(a) and any
     penalty imposed under section 17.

 (4) This Part applies to an outstanding premium despite any appeal
pending against liability to pay the whole or any part of that
outstanding premium.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

23  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

Defaulter’s agent for recovery of outstanding premiums

 12.—(1) A recovery body may, if it considers necessary, by written
notice declare any person to be a defaulter’s agent.

 (2) The person declared to be the defaulter’s agent under
subsection (1) is to be treated as the agent of the defaulter for the
purposes of this Act, and may be required by the recovery body to pay
any outstanding premium payable by the defaulter from any moneys
which may be held by the defaulter’s agent for, or due from the
defaulter’s agent to, the defaulter —

    (a) on or not more than 90 days after the date on which the
         defaulter’s agent receives the notice; or

    (b) at any time on or after the date on which the defaulter’s
         agent receives the notice, if the moneys are earnings and
         the defaulter’s agent is liable, as a principal and not as an
         employee or agent, to pay the earnings to the defaulter.

 (3) Where separate amounts of moneys come to be held by the
defaulter’s agent for, or become due from the defaulter’s agent to, the
defaulter at different times within the period in subsection (2)(a) or
(b) (as the case may be) the recovery body may require the
outstanding premium to be paid in instalments of such sums as the
recovery body may specify from one or more of those separate
amounts.

 (4) Any person who is declared by a recovery body to be a
defaulter’s agent under subsection (1) and is aggrieved by the
declaration may object to the declaration by written notice to the
recovery body within 14 days after the date of receipt of the notice, or
within such longer period as the recovery body in its discretion may
allow.

 (5) The recovery body must examine the objection and may cancel,
vary or confirm the declaration.

 (6) An objector in subsection (4) who is aggrieved by the recovery
body’s decision upon the objection in subsection (5) may appeal
against that decision in accordance with the relevant regulations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          24

 (7) If the defaulter’s agent fails to make any payment under
subsection (2), the outstanding premium is recoverable from the
defaulter’s agent in the manner provided in section 15.

 (8) For the purposes of this section, a recovery body may require
any person to give information as to —

(a) any moneys, funds or other assets which may be held by
     that person for any defaulter; or

(b) any moneys due from that person to any defaulter.

 (9) In this section, “earnings”, in relation to a defaulter, means any
sum payable to the defaulter —

(a) by way of wages or salary, including any fees, bonus,
     commission, overtime pay or other emoluments payable in
     addition to wages or salary by the person paying the wages
     or salary, or payable under a contract of service; or

(b) by way of pension, including an annuity in respect of past
     services, whether or not the services were rendered to the
     person paying the annuity, and including periodical
     payments by way of compensation for the loss, abolition
     or relinquishment, or any diminution in the emoluments, of
     any office or employment.

 (10) Where a defaulter’s agent makes any payment of moneys to
the recovery body under this section or section 13 —

(a) the defaulter’s agent is deemed to have been acting under
     the authority of the defaulter;

(b) the defaulter’s agent is, by this provision, indemnified in
     respect of the payment to the recovery body;

          (c) the outstanding premium due from the defaulter is reduced
              by the amount paid by the defaulter’s agent to the recovery
              body; and

(d) the amount paid by the defaulter’s agent to the recovery
     body is deemed to have been paid to the defaulter in
     accordance with any law, contract or scheme governing the
     payment of moneys held by the defaulter’s agent for, or due
     from the defaulter’s agent to, the defaulter.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

25  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

Defaulter’s agent in relation to joint moneys

 13.—(1) This section applies where the moneys mentioned in
section 12(2) are moneys in a joint account of which the defaulter is a
joint account holder, or are the proceeds of sale of any immovable
property of which the defaulter was a joint owner.

(2) The defaulter’s agent must —

    (a) within 14 days after the date of the receipt of the notice
         under section 12(2), send a notice, by registered post
         addressed to every owner of the moneys in the bank
         account or the proceeds of sale (called in this section joint
         moneys) at the owner’s address last known to the
         defaulter’s agent, informing the owner of the declaration
         under section 12(1);

    (b) retain such amount of the joint moneys as is presumed
         under subsection (3) to be owned by the person from whom
         the outstanding premium is due; and

    (c) subject to subsections (6) and (7), within the time specified
        in the notice (being at least 42 days after the date of the
        receipt of the notice under section 12(2)) pay the
        outstanding premium due from the retained amount to
        the recovery body.

 (3) It is presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the joint account
holders of a joint account have equal shares of the moneys in the
account as at the date of the receipt of the notice under section 12(2),
and that the joint owners of any immovable property share the
proceeds of sale of the property equally.

 (4) Any owner of joint moneys who objects to the share presumed
under subsection (3) may give written notice of the owner’s objection
to the defaulter’s agent within 28 days after the date of the receipt of
the agent’s notice under subsection (2)(a), or within such longer
period as the recovery body may allow, and furnish proof as to the
owner’s share of the joint moneys together with the notice of
objection.

 (5) Where an objection under subsection (4) is received, the
defaulter’s agent must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          26

(a) inform the recovery body of the objection within 7 days
     after the date of the receipt of the objection; and

(b) retain the amount of the joint moneys referred to in
     subsection (2)(b) until such time as the recovery body by
     notice under subsection (6) informs the defaulter’s agent of
     the recovery body’s decision on the objection.

 (6) The recovery body must consider the objection under
subsection (4) and, by written notice, inform the objector of its
decision.

 (7) An owner of joint moneys aggrieved by the decision of the
recovery body under subsection (6) may appeal against that decision
in accordance with the relevant regulations.

 (8) Where the recovery body has decided under subsection (6) on
the amount of the defaulter’s share of the joint moneys, the defaulter’s
agent must, despite any appeal under subsection (7), pay that amount,
from the amount of the joint moneys retained under subsection (5)(b),
towards any outstanding premium due from the defaulter.

 (9) In this section, “joint account” means a bank account in the
names of 2 or more persons, but excludes any partnership account,
any trust account and any account where a minor is one of the joint
account holders.

Payment by Government

 14.—(1) Where —

       (a) any outstanding premium is due from any person under this
            Act other than as a defaulter’s agent under section 12 or 13;

       (b) an amount is or would be payable by the Government to the
            person by or under any written law, contract or scheme —

               (i) on or not more than 90 days after the date on which
                   the public officer in paragraph (c) receives the notice
                   in paragraph (c); or

              (ii) at any time on or after the date on which the public
                   officer in paragraph (c) receives the notice in
                   paragraph (c), if the amount is earnings (as defined

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

27  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    in section 12(9)) payable to the person by the
    Government as a principal and not as an agent; and

    (c) before the amount mentioned in paragraph (b) is paid to the
        person, the recovery body serves a notice on any public
        officer by whom the payment is to be made that the
        outstanding premium mentioned in paragraph (a) is due
        from the person,

then the public officer is, despite that or any other written law,
contract or scheme, entitled to pay the whole or any part of the
amount mentioned in paragraph (b) towards the whole or any part of
the outstanding premium mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) If a public officer makes a payment under subsection (1)
towards the outstanding premium mentioned in subsection (1)(a) —

    (a) the amount of the outstanding premium is to be reduced by
         the amount of that payment; and

    (b) that payment is deemed to have been made to the person in
         accordance with the law, contract or scheme mentioned in
         subsection (1)(b).

Suit for outstanding premiums

 15.—(1) All outstanding premiums imposed under this Act, and all
sums due to the Fund, may be sued for and recovered by a recovery
body in its own name by way of specially endorsed originating claim.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) A recovery body is entitled to all costs and interest allowed by
law against the person sued.

 (3) All sums (including costs and interest) recovered in a suit
brought under this section are to be paid into the Fund.

Recovery from defaulter leaving Singapore

 16.—(1) Where a recovery body is of the opinion that any defaulter
is about or likely to leave Singapore without paying all outstanding
premiums payable by the defaulter, the recovery body may issue a
certificate containing particulars of such outstanding premiums and a
direction to the Commissioner of Police or the Controller of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          28

Immigration, or both, to prevent the defaulter from leaving Singapore
without paying the outstanding premiums or furnishing security to
the recovery body for the payment.

 (2) Subject to the provisions of any order issued or made under any
law for the time being in force relating to banishment or immigration,
upon receiving a direction under subsection (1), the Commissioner of
Police or the Controller of Immigration, or both (as the case may be)
are to take, or cause any police officer or immigration officer to take,
such measures as may be necessary to prevent the defaulter from
leaving Singapore until every outstanding premium has been paid or
secured.

(3) The measures mentioned in subsection (2) may include —

(a) the use of such force as may be necessary; and

(b) if appropriate, the detention of any passport, certificate of
     identity or travel document and any exit permit or other
     document authorising the defaulter to leave Singapore.

 (4) At the time the recovery body issues the certificate under
subsection (1), the recovery body must issue to the defaulter, by
personal service or registered post, a notification of the issue of the
certificate; but a non‑receipt of the notification does not invalidate
any proceedings under this section.

 (5) Payment of the outstanding premium to an officer in charge of a
police station or an immigration officer, or production of a certificate
issued by the recovery body stating that the outstanding premium has
been paid or secured, is sufficient authority for allowing the defaulter
to leave Singapore.

 (6) A defaulter who, knowing that a direction has been issued under
this section to prevent the defaulter’s departure from Singapore,
voluntarily leaves or attempts to leave Singapore without paying the
outstanding premium or furnishing security to the recovery body’s
satisfaction for that payment —

(a) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
     conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
     imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
     both; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

29  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (b) may be arrested, without warrant, by any police officer or
         immigration officer.

 (7) No civil or criminal proceedings are to be instituted or
maintained against the Commissioner of Police, the Controller of
Immigration or any other police officer or immigration officer, in
respect of anything done in good faith and with reasonable care under
the authority of this section.

Penalty for late payment of premium

 17.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), if the whole or any part of the
premium for an insurance period, or any interest imposed under
section 11(1)(a), remains unpaid at the expiry of such period as the
Board may permit (being at least one month) after the beginning of
that insurance period, a penalty may be added to the premium and
interest at the rates and times prescribed in the relevant regulations.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the relevant regulations may provide
for penalties to be imposed at different rates for premiums and
interest imposed under section 11(1)(a) which remain unpaid for
different periods.

 (3) The total amount of the penalties imposed on the premium and
interest for an insurance period must not exceed 17% of the total
amount of the premium for that insurance period and any interest
imposed under section 11(1)(a) on the outstanding premiums for that
insurance period.

 (4) The recovery body may, subject to such terms and conditions as
the recovery body may specify, extend the time limit within which
payment of any penalty is to be made.

 (5) A recovery body may for any good cause shown remit the whole
or any part of the penalty imposed by it under subsection (1).

Recovery body

 18.—(1) The Minister may prescribe one or more statutory bodies
as recovery bodies for the purposes of this Part.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          30

(2) A recovery body may —

(a) only exercise any powers under this Part which the
     Minister authorises it to exercise; and

(b) must, in exercising those powers, comply with any
     directions of the Council.

 (3) Despite the provisions of any written law, a legal officer of a
recovery body who is an advocate and solicitor may appear for the
recovery body in any civil proceedings arising from the exercise of
the recovery body’s powers under this Part, and may make and do all
acts and applications in respect of such proceedings on behalf of the
recovery body.

                                    PART 4

                                  OFFENCES

False or incorrect health declaration, means declaration or
claim application

 19.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) makes a health declaration, means declaration or claim
            application under the Scheme which is false or misleading
            in a material particular, knowing that the declaration or
            application is false or misleading in a material particular;

       (b) omits any matter or thing without which the health
            declaration, means declaration or claim application (as
            the case may be) is misleading in a material particular,
            knowing that the omission makes the declaration or
            application misleading; or

       (c) provides any information to any person which is false or
            misleading in a material particular, knowing that —

               (i) the information provided is false or misleading in a
                   material particular; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

31  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (ii) the information provided may —

    (A) be included in a health declaration, means
         declaration or claim application made under
         the Scheme;

    (B) affect the amount of any benefit or claim to be
         paid under the Scheme or whether any such
         benefit or claim is payable; or

                     (C) affect the amount of any grant, subsidy or
                          benefit to be paid or given under a relevant
                          public scheme or whether any such grant,
                          subsidy or benefit is payable or may be given.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) A person shall be liable on conviction of an offence under
subsection (1) —

    (a) in any case where the person is an individual, to a penalty
         equal to the relevant amount; or

    (b) in any other case, to a penalty equal to 5 times the relevant
         amount.

 (3) A person who commits an offence under subsection (1), with the
intention of causing any premium to be undercharged, any benefit or
claim to be overpaid under the Scheme or a higher amount of any
grant, subsidy or benefit to be given under a relevant public scheme,
shall be guilty of an offence under this subsection and shall be liable
on conviction of the offence under this subsection —

    (a) in any case where the person is an individual —

    (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
        a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; and

    (ii) in addition, to a penalty equal to 2 times the relevant
         amount; or

    (b) in any other case —

    (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          32

            (ii) in addition, to a penalty equal to 4 times the relevant
                  amount.

                                                                             [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

(4) In this section, “relevant amount” means —

(a) the amount by which any premium has been undercharged
     as a result of the offence, or that would have been so
     undercharged if the false or misleading declaration,
     application or information (as the case may be) had been
     accepted as correct;

(b) the amount of any benefit or claim under the Scheme that
     has been overpaid as a result of the offence, or that would
     have been so overpaid if the false or misleading
     declaration, application or information (as the case may
     be) had been accepted as correct; or

          (c) the amount of any grant, subsidy or benefit under a relevant
              public scheme that has been wrongly given as a result of
              the offence, or that would have been so wrongly given if
              the false or misleading information had been accepted as
              correct.

                                                                              [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Investigators

 20.—(1) The Minister may, in writing, appoint any public officer to
investigate any offence under this Act.

 (2) The chief executive officer of the Board may, in writing, appoint
any officer of the Board to investigate any offence under this Act.

 (3) An investigator, when exercising any powers and carrying out
any duties under this Act, must comply with such general or special
directions as may be given —

       (a) by the Minister, if the investigator is a public officer; or

       (b) by the chief executive officer of the Board, if the
            investigator is an officer of the Board.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

33  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

Power to obtain information

 21.—(1) An investigator who has a reasonable suspicion that any
person has committed an offence under this Act may —

    (a) by written notice require any person to attend at such
         reasonable time and at such place as may be specified by
         the investigator to answer any question or to provide a
         signed statement in writing concerning the suspected
         offence;

    (b) require any person —

    (i) to furnish any information within the person’s
        knowledge; or

    (ii) to produce for inspection any document or record in
         the person’s possession,

    (b) that the investigator believes on reasonable grounds to be
         connected with the suspected offence; and

    (c) retain the original copy of any document or record that the
        investigator believes on reasonable grounds to be
        connected with the suspected offence, or make or cause
        to be made, without payment, copies of or extracts from
        that document or record.

 (2) Where any document or record required by an investigator is
kept in electronic form, then —

    (a) the power of an investigator to require that document or
         record to be produced for inspection under
         subsection (1)(b)(ii) includes the power to require a copy
         of that document or record to be made available for
         inspection in legible form; and

    (b) subsection (1)(c) applies to any copy so made available.

 (3) Any copy of or extract from any document or record made under
subsection (1)(c) and certified as such by the investigator is
admissible as evidence in any proceedings under this Act.

 (4) Any person who, when required by an investigator to furnish
under subsection (1)(b) any information or produce any document or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          34

record, refuses or fails, without reasonable excuse, to furnish the
information or to produce the document or record within the time
allowed by the investigator shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

Obstructing investigators in execution of their duties

 22. Any person who, without reasonable excuse, obstructs, hinders
or impedes any investigator in the performance or execution of a duty
or anything which the investigator is authorised, empowered or
required to do under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 23.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) is to apply in relation to the acts and defaults
of a member in connection with the member’s functions of
management as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                       MediShield Life

35                     Scheme Act 2015                       2020 Ed.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or a member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership as
       defined in section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the board of management, chief
         executive, manager, secretary or other similar officer
         of the body corporate and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a partnership), means the president, the
         secretary, or any member of the committee of the
         unincorporated association, or any person holding a
         position analogous to that of president, secretary or
         member of such a committee and includes any person
         purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Composition of offences

 24.—(1) A public officer authorised by the Minister, or an officer of
the Board authorised by the chief executive officer of the Board, may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
             MediShield Life

2020 Ed.     Scheme Act 2015                                       36

suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding the
lower of the following:

(a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
     prescribed for the offence;

(b) $1,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

(3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the Fund.

Conduct of prosecutions

 25. Proceedings in respect of any offence under this Act may, with
the authorisation of the Public Prosecutor, be conducted —

       (a) by any public officer appointed by the Minister to conduct
            such proceedings; or

       (b) by any officer of the Board appointed by the chief
            executive officer of the Board to conduct such
            proceedings.

                                    PART 5

                  DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

Confidential information

 26.—(1) Where the Minister certifies, under the Minister’s hand,
that a public officer, a public authority or any other organisation or
person (called in this subsection the recipient organisation) requires
any particular class of confidential information about a person (called
in this subsection the person concerned), which is in the possession of
a Government department or another public authority, for the
administration or enforcement of the Scheme or in order to
disburse or facilitate the disbursement of any grant, subsidy or
benefit under a healthcare‑related public scheme, in relation to the
person concerned —

       (a) the Minister charged with the responsibility for that
            Government department or other public authority may, in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

37  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    addition to any other power conferred by any written law,
    direct that Government department or other public
    authority to provide so much of the confidential
    information to the recipient organisation as the recipient
    organisation requires for that purpose; and

    (b) that Government department or other public authority is to
         comply with the direction under paragraph (a).

 (2) The Board may use so much of the confidential information
about a person, obtained by the Board before, on or after 10 March
2015 in the course of performing the Board’s functions or duties
under the CPF Act, to administer or enforce the Scheme in relation to
that person as —

    (a) the Minister certifies, under the Minister’s hand, to be
         required by the Board for that purpose; and

    (b) the Minister charged with the responsibility for the Board
         approves to be used for that purpose.

 (3) The Board may use so much of the confidential information
about a person obtained by the Board in the course of performing its
functions or duties under this Act to perform the Board’s functions
and duties under the CPF Act in relation to that person as the Minister
approves to be used for that purpose.

 (4) A person who had consented, before 10 March 2015, to the
Board disclosing information about that person in the Board’s
possession to an insurer to administer or operate an insurance scheme
referred to in section 77(1)(k) of the CPF Act in relation to that
person, or that person’s dependant, is deemed to consent to the Board
disclosing information, obtained by the Board on or after that date in
the course of administering or enforcing the CPF Act or this Act, to
that insurer to administer or operate that insurance scheme (whether
pursuant to regulations made under section 77(1)(k) of the CPF Act or
regulations made under section 34(2)(j)), until the deemed consent is
withdrawn.

(5) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) do not apply to —

    (a) confidential information about a person obtained directly
         or indirectly from a medical institution or a medical

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          38

     practitioner employed or engaged by that medical
     institution, who attended to that person; and

                                                                    [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

(b) means information.

Health information

 27.—(1) Where the Minister certifies, under the Minister’s hand,
that an authorised person requires confidential information about a
person (called in this section a person concerned) which is in the
possession of a medical institution or a medical practitioner
employed or engaged by that medical institution, who attended to
the person concerned, in order to —

       (a) assess whether premium loading under the Scheme applies
            to the person concerned on account of a pre‑existing
            medical condition; or

       (b) assess a claim for benefits under the Scheme by the person
            concerned,

the authorised person may request that medical institution or medical
practitioner to provide so much of the confidential information to the
authorised person as the authorised person needs for that purpose.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) Where any confidential information about a person concerned
has been obtained under subsection (1), an authorised person may —

       (a) access or use, or disclose to another authorised person,
            such confidential information for the purposes certified by
            the Minister under subsection (1); or

       (b) disclose such confidential information to any person for
            the administration or enforcement of the Scheme, or to an
            insurer to administer or operate an insurance scheme
            referred to in section 77(1)(k) of the CPF Act or
            section 34(2)(j) in relation to the person concerned but
            only if the information is disclosed —

               (i) with the approval of the Minister; and

              (ii) in the form of a report stating whether that person
                   concerned has any pre‑existing medical condition

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

39  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (without identifying the pre‑existing medical
    condition) and the amount of premium loading
    applicable to the premium payable by that person.

 (3) If a person concerned opts out, in the manner determined by the
Minister, from the provision of information about the person
concerned for the purposes of subsection (1)(a), an authorised
person must not, from the time the authorised person is notified that
the person concerned has opted out, except with the consent of the
person concerned —

    (a) request a medical institution or a medical practitioner to
         provide the information under subsection (1)(a); or

    (b) access or use any information obtained under
         subsection (1)(a).

 (4) A person who has not attained 21 years of age (called in this
subsection the minor) may opt out from the provision of information
about the minor for the purposes of subsection (1)(a) only if —

    (a) the minor has attained 16 years of age; and

    (b) any other person who is liable to pay the minor’s premium
         under section 4(1)(c)(ii) does not object to the opting out
         by the minor.

Means information, household composition, etc.

 28.—(1) Where an authorised person requests for means
information about a person (called in this section the person
concerned), which is in the possession of a relevant authority, for
any purpose mentioned in subsection (1A), the relevant authority is to
provide to the authorised person so much of that means information
as —

       (a) the Minister certifies, under the Minister’s hand, to be
            required by the authorised person for that purpose; and

       (b) the Minister charged with the responsibility for the
            relevant authority approves to be provided for that purpose.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (1A) The purpose mentioned in subsection (1) is any of the
following:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          40

(a) to assess the eligibility of any person for any grant, subsidy
     or benefit under a relevant public scheme;

       (b) to determine if any of the powers in Part 3 should be
            exercised in relation to any person.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (2) An authorised person may access or use, or disclose to another
authorised person, any means information provided under
subsection (1) for the purposes for which the information was
provided.

 (3) An authorised person may provide means information about a
person concerned obtained under subsection (1) for the purpose
mentioned in subsection (1A)(a) to any public authority or other
organisation or person that is responsible for a prescribed public
scheme (called in this subsection a recipient organisation) or any
officer, employee or agent of the recipient organisation, for the
recipient organisation to disburse, or facilitate the disbursement of, a
grant, subsidy or benefit under the prescribed public scheme, only —

(a) in the form of a report derived from such means
     information stating whether any person satisfies the
     eligibility criteria for a grant, subsidy or benefit under a
     relevant public scheme or any tier or category within such
     eligibility criteria (whether or not the report includes any
     information other than means information);

(b) at the request of the recipient organisation; and

       (c) with the approval of the Minister.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (4) If a person concerned opts out, in the manner determined by the
Minister, from the provision of means information about the person
concerned for the purpose mentioned in subsection (1A)(a), an
authorised person must not, from the time the authorised person is
notified that the person concerned has opted out, except with the
consent of the person concerned —

(a) request the information under subsection (1) for that
     purpose; or

                                                                    [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

41  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

       (b) access or use any information obtained under
            subsection (1) for that purpose.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (5) If a person concerned opts out, in the manner determined by the
Minister, from the provision of information about the person
concerned under subsection (3) for the disbursement, or for
facilitating the disbursement, of all grants, subsidies or benefits
under all prescribed public schemes, an authorised person must not
from the time the authorised person is notified that the person
concerned has opted out, disclose the information under
subsection (3), except with the consent of the person concerned.

 (6) A person who has not attained 21 years of age (called in this
subsection the minor) may opt out from the provision of means
information about the minor under subsection (1) (for the purpose
mentioned in subsection (1A)(a)) or (3) only if —

    (a) the minor has attained 16 years of age; and

       (b) any other person who is liable to pay the minor’s premium
            under section 4(1)(c)(ii) does not object to the opting out
            by the minor.

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

 (7) Information on a person’s household composition and whether
that person satisfies the eligibility criteria for a grant, subsidy or
benefit under a relevant public scheme or any tier or category within
such eligibility criteria, derived from information obtained under this
section may be disclosed to that person.

 (8) IRAS may, if it is prescribed as a recovery body, use to enforce
the Scheme so much of the means information or other confidential
information obtained by it (whether before, on or after 10 March
2015) in the course of performing its functions under section 6 of the
Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992 as the Minister
charged with the responsibility for finance approves to be used for
such purpose.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          42

Offence and immunity relating to disclosure

 29.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (3) and (4), any person who,
knowing that any information about any other person was provided or
obtained under any provision of section 26, 27 or 28, accesses, uses or
discloses the information, without the written consent of that other
person, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (2) No person or organisation shall be guilty of an offence under
any written law or of any breach of confidence, shall incur any civil
liability or shall be liable to any disciplinary action by a professional
body, by virtue merely of doing any of the following in good faith and
with reasonable care:

(a) complying with a direction under section 26(1)(a) or a
     request under section 27(1) or 28(1);

(b) providing or disclosing information in accordance with
     any provision of section 26, 27 or 28;

          (c) accessing or using information provided or obtained under
              any provision of section 26, 27 or 28 in accordance with
              the requirements of such provision and any terms and
              conditions imposed under section 30(1);

(d) with the approval of the Minister —

          (i) disclosing any information obtained under
              section 26, 27 or 28 to the Council for the exercise
              of the Council’s functions and powers under this Act;
              or

          (ii) where the organisation is the Council, using that
               information to exercise its functions and powers
               under this Act.

(3) Sections 26, 27 and 28 and subsection (2) apply —

(a) despite any other written law; and

(b) whether or not any person accessing, using or disclosing
     information under those provisions is under any obligation

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

43  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (imposed by any written law or otherwise) not to access,
    use or disclose such information.

 (4) Sections 26, 27 and 28 do not affect the exercise of any right or
authority under any other written law or rule of law to access, use or
disclose confidential information.

General

 30.—(1) An approval under section 26(2)(b) or (3), 27(2)(b)(i),
28(1)(b), (3)(c) or (8) or 29(2)(d) or a direction under section 26(1)(a)
may be given on such terms and conditions, as the Minister giving the
approval or direction considers appropriate, regarding access to the
information provided or disclosed pursuant to the approval or
direction, as the case may be.

 (2) A certification, an approval or a direction by a Minister under
this Part may be given in relation to a particular class of confidential
information about persons within a class of persons specified in the
certification, approval or direction.

 (3) References in this Part to the Scheme and to other provisions of
this Act are to apply, before the commencement of the provisions
establishing the Scheme and the commencement of those other
provisions of this Act, respectively, as if those provisions were
already in force.

                                    PART 6

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Change of address

 31.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), every person who is liable to pay
any premium under section 4(1)(c)(i) or (ii) must inform the Board in
writing of any change in that person’s residential address.

 (2) If a person has changed that person’s residential address and has
made a report of the change under section 10 of the National
Registration Act 1965, that person is taken to have informed the
Board of the change of that residential address in accordance with
subsection (1).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          44

Certificate of officer authorised by Board to be evidence

 32.—(1) In any legal proceedings, a copy of an entry in the
accounts of the Fund duly certified under the hand of an officer of the
Board authorised by the Board to sign the certification is prima facie
evidence of the entry having been made and of the truth of the
contents of the entry.

 (2) In any suit under section 15, the production of a certificate
signed by an officer of the Board authorised by the Board to sign the
certification stating the following is sufficient evidence of the amount
due and sufficient authority for the court to give judgment for that
amount:

(a) the name and address of the defaulter; and

(b) the amount of the outstanding premium payable by the
     defaulter.

Protection from personal liability

 33. No liability is incurred by any public officer, any member of the
Council or of any committee appointed under section 8(4), any
member, officer or employee of the Board or a recovery body, or any
other person acting under the direction of the Council or the Board,
for anything which is done or purported to be done, or omitted to be
done, in good faith and with reasonable care in —

       (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
            Act; or

       (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
            or duty under this Act.

Service of documents

 33A.—(1) A document (other than a demand note mentioned in
section 11(2)) that is permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document may be served on an individual —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

45  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
         specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
         if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
         address or business address;

    (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
        adult person apparently residing there, or at the
        individual’s business address with an adult person
        apparently employed there;

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;

    (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the
        individual as the fax number for the service of documents
        under this Act; or

    (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s email address.

 (3) A document may be served on a partnership (other than a
limited liability partnership) —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s email address.

 (4) A document may be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association or the limited
         liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                       MediShield Life

2020 Ed.               Scheme Act 2015                             46

          (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
              corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
              office or principal office in Singapore; or

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s email address.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of the
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person; and

          (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
              after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
              undelivered).

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court or whose manner of service is otherwise
provided by or under this Act.

(8) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; and

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned as the email address for the service of
   documents under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore and includes an address
   provided in accordance with section 31.

                                        [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                         MediShield Life

47                       Scheme Act 2015                     2020 Ed.

Service of demand notes

 33B.—(1) A demand note may be served as described in this
section.

(2) A demand note may be served on a person —

    (a) by giving it to the person personally;

    (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
         specified by the person generally for the service of
         documents permitted or required by or under this Act to
         be served or specifically for demand notes;

    (c) if no address mentioned in paragraph (b) is so specified, by
        sending it by prepaid registered post to —

    (i) the person’s residential address;

    (ii) the person’s business address;

    (iii) any correspondence address provided by the
          person —

    (A) in relation to the administration of this Act; or

    (B) in accordance with regulations made under
         section 34; or

    (iv) if the person is an insured person who has not
         attained 21 years of age —

    (A) the residential address of the insured person’s
         parent;

    (B) the business address of the insured person’s
         parent; or

    (C) any correspondence address mentioned in
         sub‑paragraph (iii) provided by the insured
         person’s parent;

    (d) by leaving it at the person’s residential address with an
         adult person apparently residing there, or at the person’s
         business address with an adult person apparently employed
         there;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          48

          (e) by affixing a copy of the demand note in a conspicuous
              place at the person’s residential address or business
              address;

          (f) by sending it by fax to the fax number given by the person
              generally for the service of documents permitted or
              required by or under this Act to be served or specifically
              for demand notes; or

(g) by sending it by email in any manner provided in
     subsection (3).

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2)(g), a demand note may be
served on a person (A) —

(a) by sending it by email to the last email address given by A
     to the recovery body, as the email address for the service of
     demand notes under this Act, if A has given prior written
     consent to service in this manner; or

(b) by sending it by email to an email address of A, if —

          (i) the recovery body sends A an email at that email
              address;

          (ii) the email contains a prominent notice stating —

          (A) that if A sends any reply to the recovery body
               from that email address, A is treated as
               consenting to service of any demand note on
               A, by sending it by email to that email address;
               and

          (B) that A may, at any time, give the recovery body
               a notice in writing —

          (BA) refusing service on A by email at that
                 email address; and

          (BB) specifying a valid address or valid
                 email address at which A may be
                 served with a demand note;

          (iii) A sends a reply to the recovery body from that email
                address and does not give the recovery body the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

49  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    notice mentioned in sub‑paragraph (ii)(B) in that
    reply; and

    (iv) in the period between the date A sends the reply and
         the date immediately before the day the demand note
         is served (both dates inclusive), A does not give the
         recovery body the notice mentioned in
         sub‑paragraph (ii)(B).

 (4) Service of a demand note on a person under this section takes
effect —

    (a) if the demand note is sent by fax and a notification of
         successful transmission is received, on the day of the
         transmission;

    (b) if the demand note is sent by email, at the time that the
         email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person;
         and

    (c) if the demand note is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
        after the day the demand note was posted (even if it is
        returned undelivered).

 (5) In addition, the Minister may by regulations made under
section 34 prescribe, in relation to an electronic service of a recovery
body, that despite anything in the relevant written law, the provisions
of the relevant written law (so far as relevant) apply in relation to the
service by the recovery body of a demand note under this Act using
the electronic service as they apply to the service of documents
permitted or required to be served by the electronic service under the
relevant written law, with any exceptions, modifications and
adaptations that may be prescribed.

 (6) Service of a demand note in accordance with any relevant
written law as applied by regulations made for the purpose of
subsection (5) takes effect at the time when an electronic record of it
enters the person’s account with the electronic service.

 (7) This section does not affect the service of a demand note in
accordance with any other written law or in any manner agreed by the
person to be served.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
                          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.                  Scheme Act 2015                          50

(8) In this section —

“business address” has the meaning given by section 33A(8);

“demand note” means a demand note mentioned in
   section 11(2);

“electronic service”, in relation to a recovery body, means any
   prescribed system established under any written law that
   enables the recovery body to serve any document, and
   includes —

          (a) if the Board is prescribed as a recovery body, the
               electronic service platform provided under
               section 74(1) of the CPF Act; and

          (b) if IRAS is prescribed as a recovery body, the system
               established under section 29(1) of the Inland
               Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992;

“parent”, in relation to an insured person, means any parent of an
   insured person who is required under section 4(1)(c)(ii) to
   pay any premium for the insured person;

“relevant written law”, in relation to an electronic service,
   means —

          (a) the written law under which the electronic service is
               established; and

          (b) any written law that provides for the procedure for
               the use of the electronic service, the circumstances in
               which a document may be served through the
               electronic service, and the manner in which a
               person who has been served a document through
               the electronic service is to be notified of such service,

          and includes —

          (c) if the electronic service platform provided under
              section 74(1) of the CPF Act is prescribed as an
              electronic service, the CPF Act and any subsidiary
              legislation mentioned in section 74(4) or (5) of that
              Act; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

51  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (d) if the system established under section 29(1) of the
         Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore Act 1992 is
         prescribed as an electronic service, any provision or
         subsidiary legislation mentioned in paragraph (a) or
         (c) of the definition of “relevant tax legislation” (for
         any document or information permitted or required
         under such legislation to be served or given) in
         section 29(7) of that Act;

    “residential address” means a person’s usual or last known place
       of residence in Singapore and includes an address provided in
       accordance with section 31.

                     [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

Regulations

 34.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), such regulations may —

       (a) despite section 3(3), provide for the circumstances in
            which a person ceases to be an insured person or may be
            reinstated as an insured person, including —

               (i) refunds and payments to be made to adjust for such
                   changes; and

              (ii) interest paid into that person’s medisave account to
                   be deducted and paid to the general moneys of the
                   Central Provident Fund;

       (b) impose premium loading for insured persons who do not
            satisfy the Board that they have no pre‑existing medical
            conditions;

                                                                               [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

       (c) prescribe the benefits payable under the Scheme (which
            may differ for different classes of insured persons) and
            make provision for claims for such benefits, including —

               (i) the circumstances in which an insured person is
                   entitled to claim such benefits, including limiting
                   benefits to any approved medical treatment or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          52

          services which are assessed by the Council or a
          committee appointed under section 8(4) to be
          appropriate in the circumstances of any particular
          case;

          (ii) the form and manner of submitting claims under the
               Scheme, including provision for direct submission of
               such claims by approved medical institutions; and

          (iii) providing for any payments which an insured person
                is liable to make under this Act to be deducted from
                the benefits payable to that person;

(d) prescribe the circumstances for imposing and the manner
     of computing premiums (which may be at different rates
     for different classes of insured persons), interest (including
     compound interest) under section 11(1)(a) and penalties
     imposed under section 17, and the order in which payments
     are applied to such premiums, interest and penalties;

                                                                    [Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

(e) prescribe the circumstances in which premiums, interest
     under section 11(1)(a) and penalties imposed under
     section 17 are payable by a person (other than an insured
     person) and may be deducted from that person’s medisave
     account under section 4(2)(b);

          (f) provide for any payment under this Act to be deducted
              from the medisave account of the person liable to make
              that payment;

(g) provide for the refund of any premium, interest under
     section 11(1)(a), penalty under section 17 or other payment
     made under this Act (called in this paragraph the refunded
     payment), including —

          (i) the rate, manner or circumstances for the refund to be
              made;

          (ii) for any payments which the insured person is liable
               to make under this Act to be deducted from the
               amount to be refunded; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

53  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

    (iii) if the refunded payment was deducted from an
          account of a CPF member in the Central Provident
          Fund, the refund, to that or any other account of that
          CPF member in the Central Provident Fund, of the
          whole or such part of the interest which would have
          been payable if the refunded payment had not been
          so deducted;

    (h) prescribe the fees and charges for the purposes of this Act;

    (i) provide in respect of any offence under the regulations —

    (i) in a case where the offender is an individual, for a
        penalty not exceeding a fine of $5,000 or
        imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months
        or both for each offence; or

    (ii) in any other case, for a penalty not exceeding a fine
         of $10,000 for each offence;

    (j) provide, in any case where a CPF member or the CPF
        member’s dependant is insured under a medical insurance
        scheme or other insurance scheme approved by the
        Minister, for —

    (i) the withdrawal of money from the CPF member’s
        medisave account for the payment of any premium
        payable by the CPF member or the dependant in
        respect of the medical insurance scheme or other
        insurance scheme;

    (ii) the refund of any premium paid by the CPF member
         or the dependant in respect of the medical insurance
         scheme or other insurance scheme, the
         circumstances under which any such refund is to
         be made, and the determination of the manner in
         which any such refund will be made (including the
         person who will make any such determination);

    (iii) the payment of any rebate given in respect of the
          medical insurance scheme or other insurance
          scheme, the circumstances under which any such
          payment will be made, and the determination of the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
          MediShield Life

2020 Ed.  Scheme Act 2015                                          54

          manner in which any such payment will be made
          (including the person who will make any such
          determination);

          (iv) the insurer to pay administrative fees to the Board for
               any material change or error in relation to any
               withdrawal, refund or payment by the Board arising
               from incorrect information provided by the insurer or
               from such other circumstances as may be prescribed;
               and

          (v) transitional provisions for a medical insurance
               scheme or other insurance scheme approved by the
               Minister for the purposes of this paragraph, if
               regulations made under section 77(1)(k) of the
               CPF Act applying to that medical insurance
               scheme or other insurance scheme are revoked;

          (k) [Deleted by Act 40 of 2024 wef 01/04/2025]

          (l) exempt any person or class of persons from the Scheme or
              any provision of this Act, or modify the application of this
              Act in relation to any person insured under the Scheme by
              virtue of section 35(1) or any other class of persons;

(m) prescribe the circumstances for the termination of
     insurance cover under the Scheme in relation to any
     person or class of persons insured under the Scheme by
     virtue of section 35(1);

(n) make transitional and saving provisions for the MediShield
     Fund and MediShield Scheme, including for the payment
     of benefits, the recovery of premiums payable and the
     refund of payments made under that Scheme on or after
     1 November 2015;

(o) make financial provisions in relation to the Fund and the
     Scheme, including the audit of the Fund and the Scheme
     and the submission of reports on the administration and
     enforcement of the Fund or the Scheme; and

(p) prescribe anything that is required or permitted to be
     prescribed under this Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
    MediShield Life

55  Scheme Act 2015                                          2020 Ed.

 (3) The regulations made under this Act may make different
provisions for different classes of persons.

 (4) All regulations made under this Act are to be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Transitional and saving provisions

 35.—(1) Every person who, not being a citizen or permanent
resident of Singapore, is an insured person under the MediShield
Scheme immediately before 1 November 2015 continues to be
insured under the Scheme —

       (a) with such modifications as may be prescribed in the
            relevant regulations; and

       (b) until that insurance cover is terminated under the relevant
            regulations.

 (2) Except as provided in subsection (1), the Scheme does not apply
to any person who is not a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore.

 (3) Section 13(1)(b) of the CPF Act in force before 1 November
2015 continues to apply to withdrawals from a person’s medisave
account for the payment of premiums payable for insurance cover
under the MediShield Scheme as if that section was not amended by
this Act.

 (4) Section 16A of the CPF Act in force before 1 November 2015
continues to apply to premiums payable for a person’s insurance
cover under the MediShield Scheme as if that section was not
amended by this Act.

 (5) Section 53A of the CPF Act in force immediately before
1 November 2015 continues to apply to any thing done before that
date by any person who was below the age of 16 years or 21 years (as
the case may be) when that thing was done.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                  MEDISHIELD LIFE
                  SCHEME ACT 2015

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 4 of 2015 — MediShield Life Scheme Act 2015

Bill           : 3/2015

First Reading  : 19 January 2015

Second and Third Readings : 29 January 2015

Commencement   : 10 March 2015 (except sections 3 to 8,
                     10 to 18, 31, 32 and 35 to 38)
                     31 July 2015 (section 8)
                     1 November 2015 (sections 3 to 7, 10,
                     31, 32(1) and 35 to 38)
                     1 November 2016 (Part 3)
                     1 April 2020 (section 32(2))

2. 2020 Revised Edition — MediShield Life
                                    Scheme Act 2015

Operation      : 31 December 2021

3. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 158 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

4. Act 40 of 2024 — MediShield Life Scheme (Amendment) Act 2024
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 39/2024

First Reading  : 14 October 2024

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2024

Commencement   : 1 April 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
COMPARATIVE TABLE

  MEDISHIELD LIFE
  SCHEME ACT 2015

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                  2020 Ed.              Act 4 of 2015
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  36—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  37—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (5)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (6)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (7)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (8)
                                   (9)

                                38

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2025
