THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                      TRUSTEES ACT 1967

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Trustees Act 1967

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1

                             PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Application of Act
     1.  Interpretation
     2.
     3.

                                      PART 1A
                       STATUTORY DUTY OF CARE
3A. Trustees’ statutory duty of care

                                        PART 2

                                   INVESTMENTS

 4. General power of investment
 5. Standard investment criteria
 6. Advice
 7. Power to retain investment which has ceased to be authorised
 8. [Repealed]
 9. Loans and investments by trustees not chargeable as breaches of

         trust
10. Liability for loss by reason of improper investment
11. Powers supplementary to powers of investment
12. Power to deposit at bank, to pay calls and to purchase dwelling

         house for beneficiary

                                        PART 3

                 GENERAL POWERS OF TRUSTEES AND
                       PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVES

                                   General powers

13. Power of trustees for sale to sell by auction, etc.
14. Power to sell subject to depreciatory conditions

                                                      1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                              2

Section   Power of trustees to give receipts
   15.    Power to compound liabilities
   16.    Powers of trustees of renewable leaseholds to renew and raise
   17.    money for the purpose
          Power to raise money by sale, mortgage, etc.
   18.    Protection to purchasers and mortgagees dealing with trustees
   19.    Devolution of powers or trusts
   20.    Power to insure
   21.    Application of insurance money where policy kept up under any
   22.    trust, power or obligation
          [Repealed]
   23.    Reversionary interests, valuations and audit
   24.    [Repealed]
   25.    Power to concur with others
   26.    Delegation of trustee’s functions by power of attorney
   27.

                                      Indemnities

28. Protection against liability in respect of rents and covenants
29. Protection by means of advertisement
30. Protection in regard to notice
31. Exoneration of trustees in respect of certain powers of attorney
32. Implied indemnity of trustees

               Maintenance, advancement and protective trusts

33. Power to apply income for maintenance and to accumulate
         surplus income during a minority

34. Power of advancement
35. Protective trusts

                                        PART 4

           APPOINTMENT AND DISCHARGE OF TRUSTEES

36. Limitation of the number of trustees
37. Power of appointing new or additional trustees
38. Supplemental provisions as to appointment of trustees
39. Evidence as to a vacancy in a trust
40. Retirement of trustee without a new appointment
41. Vesting of trust property in new or continuing trustees

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
3  Trustees Act 1967                                                       2020 Ed.

                                  PART 4A

   AGENTS, NOMINEES AND CUSTODIANS

Section
   41A. Application of this Part

                                            Agents

   41B. Power to appoint agents
   41C. Persons who may act as agents
   41D. Linked functions, etc.
   41E. Terms of agency
   41F. Asset management — special restrictions

                                Nominees and custodians

   41G. Power to appoint nominees
   41H. Power to appoint custodians
   41I. Investment in bearer securities
   41J. Persons who may be appointed as nominees or custodians
   41K. Terms of appointment of nominees and custodians

        Review of and liability for agents, nominees and custodians, etc.

   41L. Application of sections 41M and 41N
   41M. Review of agents, nominees and custodians, etc.
   41N. Liability for agents, nominees and custodians, etc.

                                       Supplementary
   41O. Effect of trustees exceeding their powers

                                          PART 4B

                                    REMUNERATION

   41P. Application of this Part
   41Q. Trustee’s entitlement to payment under trust instrument
   41R. Remuneration of certain trustees
   41S. Trustees’ expenses
   41T. Remuneration and expenses of agents, nominees and custodians

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                            4

          PART 5

          POWERS OF COURT

Section   Power of court to appoint new trustees
          Power to authorise remuneration
   42.    Powers of new trustee appointed by the court
   43.
   44.

                                    Vesting orders

45. Vesting orders of land
46. Orders as to contingent rights of unborn persons
47. Vesting order in place of conveyance by infant mortgagee
48. Vesting order consequential on order for sale or mortgage of land
49. Vesting order consequential on judgment for specific

         performance, etc.
50. Effect of vesting order
51. Power to appoint person to convey
52. Vesting orders as to stock and thing in action
53. Vesting orders of charity or society property
54. Vesting orders in relation to infant’s beneficial interest
55. Orders made upon certain allegations to be conclusive evidence

                         Jurisdiction to make other order

56. Power of court to authorise dealings with trust property
57. Persons entitled to apply for orders
58. Power to give judgment in absence of trustee
59. Power to charge costs on trust estate
60. Power to relieve trustee from personal liability
61. Power to make beneficiary indemnify for breach of trust

                                 Payment into court
62. Payment into court by trustees

                                        PART 6

                              CHARITABLE TRUSTS

63. Public Trustee may administer property of charitable trust
         without trustee

64. Validation of certain imperfect charitable trusts

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
5        Trustees Act 1967                                          2020 Ed.

         Incorporation of trustees

Section  Grant of certificate of incorporation of trustees
   65.   Estate to vest in body corporate
   66.   Particulars respecting application
   67.   Nomination of trustees and filling up vacancies
   68.   Liability of trustees and others, despite incorporation
   69.   Certificate to be evidence of compliance with requirements
   70.   Record of applications and documents to be kept, and supply of
   71.   copies
         Enforcement of conditions and directions
   72.   [Repealed]
   73.   Gifts to vest in body corporate
   74.   Common seal
   75.   Contracts not under seal to be binding in certain cases
   76.   Payments on transfers in reliance on corporate seal protected
   77.   Trustees to keep accounts and to render annual returns of
   78.   accounts
         Application to decide question whether person is a member of a
   79.   body corporate
         Dissolution of body corporate
   80.   Penalty for false statement
   81.   Penalty for not filing returns, etc.
   82.

                                           PART 7
                                 TRANSPARENCY AND
                                 EFFECTIVE CONTROL

                                Division 1 — Preliminary
   83. Interpretation of this Part
   84. Application of this Part
   84A. Appointment of Commissioner of Trust Enforcement
   84B. Appointment of authorised officers

                     Division 2 — Investigation and enforcement
                               Subdivision (1) — General

   84C. Purpose of powers
   84D. Protection from liability for compliance with requirements

                      Subdivision (2) — Examination of persons
   84E. Requirement to appear for examination

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                                6

Section
   84F. Power to examine person

          Subdivision (3) — Powers to obtain information

84G.      Power to require production of information, etc.
84H.      Issuance of warrant to enter premises, etc.
84I.      Procedure for execution of warrant
84J.      Power to seize property, etc., in certain circumstances
84K.      Power of court over seized property, etc.

          Division 3 — General offences

84L. Producing false information to Commissioner, etc.
84M. Obstruction of investigation, etc.

          Division 4 — Miscellaneous

84N.      Protection from personal liability for Commissioner, etc.
84O.      Codes of practice, guidelines and standards of performance
84P.      Composition of offences under this Part
84Q.      Regulations

                                 PART 8

          GENERAL PROVISIONS

85.       Indemnity
85A.      Offences by corporations
85B.      Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
86.       Dispositions and trusts created to defraud creditors
87.       Effect of Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 on
          transactions at undervalue and unfair preferences
88.       Accumulation of income for duration of trusts
89.       Perpetuity period applicable to trusts
90.       Validity of certain trusts
91.       Saving and transitional provisions
          First Schedule — Application of statutory duty of care under

                                    Part 1A
          Second Schedule — Particulars to be inserted in application for

                                    incorporation of trustees
          Third Schedule — Form of power of attorney under

                                    section 27(5)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
7  Trustees Act 1967                        2020 Ed.

An Act relating to trustees.  [15 July 1967]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Trustees Act 1967.

Application of Act

 2.—(1) This Act, except where otherwise expressly provided,
applies to trusts including, so far as this Act applies to them,
executorships and administratorships constituted or created either
before, on or after 1 September 1929.

 (2) The powers conferred by this Act on trustees are in addition to
the powers conferred by the instrument (if any) creating the trust, but
those powers, unless otherwise stated, apply if and so far only as a
contrary intention is not expressed in the instrument (if any) creating
the trust, and have effect subject to the terms of that instrument.

 (3) This Act does not affect the legality or validity of anything done
before 1 September 1929, except as otherwise expressly provided.

Interpretation

 3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised investments” means investments authorised by the
         instrument (if any) creating the trust for the investment of
         money subject to the trust, or by law;

      “contingent right”, as applied to land, includes a contingent or
         executory interest, a possibility coupled with an interest,
         whether the object of the gift or limitation of the interest or
         possibility is or is not ascertained, also a right of entry,
         whether immediate or future, and whether vested or
         contingent;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         8

“convey” and “conveyance”, as applied to any person, include
   the execution by that person of every necessary or suitable
   assurance (including an assent) for conveying, assigning,
   appointing, surrendering, or otherwise transferring or
   disposing of land of which the person is seised or
   possessed, or in which the person is entitled to a contingent
   right, either for the person’s whole estate or for any less
   estate, together with the performance of all formalities
   required by law for the validity of the conveyance;

“court” means the General Division of the High Court and
   includes, in any case where the trust concerned is an
   executorship or administratorship, a Family Court;

“debentures” includes debenture stock, loan stock, bonds, notes
   and any other document which creates or acknowledges a
   debt, whether constituting a charge on assets or not;

“general power of investment”, in relation to a trustee, means the
   general power of investment conferred on the trustee by
   section 4;

“income” includes rents and profits;

“instrument” includes a written law;

“land” has the meaning given by section 4 of the Land Titles
   Act 1993;

“mortgage”, “mortgagee” and “mortgagor” include “charge”,
   “chargee” and “chargor” respectively, and further include and
   relate to every estate and interest regarded in equity as merely
   a security for money, and every person deriving title under
   the original mortgagee;

“pay” and “payment”, as applied in relation to stocks and
   securities and in connection with the expression “into court”,
   include the deposit or transfer of the same in or into court;

“personal representative” means the executor, original or by
   representation, or administrator for the time being of a
   deceased person;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
9  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

   “possessed” applies to receipt of income of and to any vested
      estate less than a life interest in possession or in expectancy in
      any land;

   “possession” includes receipt of rents and profits or the right to
      receive the same, if any;

   “property” includes movable and immovable property, and any
      estate, share and interest in any property, movable or
      immovable, and any debt, and any thing in action, and any
      other right or interest, whether in possession or not;

   “rights” includes estates and interests;

   “sale” includes an exchange;

   “securities” includes debentures, stocks, funds and shares; and
      so far as relates to payments into court has the same meaning
      as in the written laws relating to funds in court;

   “securities payable to bearer” includes securities transferable by
      delivery or by delivery and endorsement;

   “shareholders equity”, in relation to a company, means the total
      assets of the company less the total liabilities of the company
      as disclosed in —

   (a) the last audited accounts of the company laid before a
        general meeting of the company in accordance with
        section 201 of the Companies Act 1967 (or the
        equivalent provision of the law of any other country
        which applies to that company); or

   (b) if a prospectus has subsequently been registered by
        the company in accordance with the requirements of
        law, the accounts contained in that prospectus;

   “solicitor” means an advocate and solicitor of the Supreme
      Court;

   “standard investment criteria”, in relation to a trust, means the
      standard investment criteria set out in section 5(3);

   “statutory duty of care”, in relation to a trustee, means the duty
      of care required to be exercised by the trustee under Part 1A;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         10

“stock” includes fully paid-up shares, and, so far as relates to
   vesting orders made by the court under this Act, includes any
   fund, annuity or security transferable in books kept by any
   corporation, company or society, or by instrument of transfer
   either alone or accompanied by other formalities or
   otherwise, and any share or interest therein;

“transfer”, in relation to stock or securities, includes the
   performance and execution of every deed, power of
   attorney, act, and thing on the part of the transferor to
   effect and complete the title in the transferee;

“trust” does not include the duties incident to an estate conveyed
   by way of mortgage, but with this exception “trust” and
   “trustee” extend to implied and constructive trusts, and to
   cases where the trustee has a beneficial interest in the trust
   property, and to the duties incident to the office of a personal
   representative, and “trustee”, where the context admits,
   includes a personal representative, and “new trustee”
   includes an additional trustee;

“trust corporation” means the Public Trustee or a corporation
   either appointed by the court in any particular case to be a
   trustee, or licensed as a trust company under the Trust
   Companies Act 2005;

“trust for sale”, in relation to land, means an immediate binding
   trust for sale, whether or not exercisable at the request or with
   the consent of any person, and with or without power at
   discretion to postpone the sale;

“trustees for sale” means the persons (including a personal
   representative) holding land on trust for sale.

          [11/2005; 21/2008; 16/2016; 40/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
11  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    PART 1A

    STATUTORY DUTY OF CARE

Trustees’ statutory duty of care

 3A.—(1) In exercising any power, carrying out any duty or doing
any act referred to in the First Schedule, a trustee must exercise such
care and skill as is reasonable in the circumstances, having regard in
particular —

    (a) to any special knowledge or experience that the trustee has
         or holds himself or herself out as having; and

    (b) if the trustee acts as trustee in the course of a business or
         profession, to any special knowledge or experience that
         may reasonably be expected of a person acting in the
         course of that kind of business or profession.

 (2) This section applies in relation to trusts whether created before,
on or after 15 December 2004 except if, or insofar as, it appears from
the trust instrument that the requirements of subsection (1) are not
meant to apply.

                                    PART 2

                               INVESTMENTS

General power of investment

 4.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act —

       (a) a trustee may make any kind of investment that the trustee
            could have made if the trustee were absolutely entitled to
            the assets of the trust; and

       (b) without limiting paragraph (a), a trustee may —

               (i) invest any funds in the trustee’s hands, whether at the
                   time in a state of investment or not, in any manner
                   specified in Part I, II or III of the First Schedule in
                   force immediately before 15 December 2004; and

              (ii) from time to time vary any such investment.

                                                                                                             [2/2012]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         12

 (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), “investment” includes
investment in assets that do not yield any income.

 (3) This section applies in relation to trusts whether created before,
on or after 15 December 2004.

Standard investment criteria

 5.—(1) In exercising any power of investment, whether arising
under this Part or otherwise, a trustee must have regard to the standard
investment criteria.

 (2) A trustee must, from time to time, review the investments of the
trust and consider whether, having regard to the standard investment
criteria, they should be varied.

 (3) The standard investment criteria, in relation to a trust, are —

       (a) the suitability to the trust of investments of the same kind
            as any particular investment proposed to be made or
            retained and of that particular investment as an investment
            of that kind; and

       (b) the need for diversification of investments of the trust,
            insofar as is appropriate to the circumstances of the trust.

 (4) This section applies in relation to trusts whether created before,
on or after 15 December 2004.

Advice

 6.—(1) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (3), a trustee
must, before exercising any power of investment, whether arising
under this Part or otherwise, obtain and consider proper advice about
the way in which the power should be exercised, having regard to the
standard investment criteria.

 (2) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (3), a trustee must,
when reviewing the investments of the trust, obtain and consider
proper advice about whether the investments should be varied, having
regard to the standard investment criteria.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
13  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (3) A trustee need not obtain the advice required under
subsection (1) or (2) if the trustee reasonably concludes that in all
the circumstances it is unnecessary or inappropriate to do so.

 (4) In this section, “proper advice” means the advice of a person
who is reasonably believed by the trustee to be qualified to give such
advice by the person’s ability in and practical experience of financial
and other matters relating to the proposed investment.

 (5) This section applies in relation to trusts whether created before,
on or after 15 December 2004.

Power to retain investment which has ceased to be authorised

 7. A trustee shall not be liable for breach of trust by reason only of
the trustee continuing to hold an investment which has ceased to be an
investment authorised by the trust instrument or by this Act.

 8. [Repealed by Act 45 of 2004]

Loans and investments by trustees not chargeable as breaches
of trust

 9.—(1) A trustee lending money on the security of any property on
which the trustee can properly lend is not chargeable with breach of
trust by reason only of the proportion borne by the amount of the loan
to the value of the property at the time when the loan was made, if it
appears to the court that —

       (a) in making the loan the trustee was acting upon proper
            advice obtained in accordance with section 6; and

       (b) the amount of the loan does not exceed two‑thirds of the
            value of the property as stated in the report made by the
            person giving proper advice in accordance with section 6.

 (2) This section applies to transfers of existing securities as well as
to new securities and to investments made before, on or after 26 June
1992.

Liability for loss by reason of improper investment

 10.—(1) Where a trustee improperly advances trust money on a
mortgage security which would at the time of the investment be a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         14

proper investment in all respects for a smaller sum than is actually
advanced on the security, the security is deemed to be an authorised
investment for the smaller sum, and the trustee is only liable to make
good the sum advanced in excess of the smaller sum with interest.

 (2) This section applies to investments made before, on or after
26 June 1992.

Powers supplementary to powers of investment

 11.—(1) Trustees lending money on the security of any property on
which they can lawfully lend may contract that such money must not
be called in during any period not exceeding 5 years from the time
when the loan was made, provided that —

       (a) interest be paid within a specified time not exceeding
            10 days after every monthly or other day on which it
            becomes due; and

       (b) there be no breach of any covenant by the mortgagor
            contained in the instrument of mortgage or charge for the
            maintenance and protection of the property.

 (2) On a sale by trustees of land for an estate in fee simple, or held
under a grant issued under the State Lands Act 1920, or for a term
having at least 30 years to run, the trustees may, where the proceeds
are liable to be invested, contract that the payment of any part, not
exceeding two-thirds, of the purchase money must be secured by
mortgage of the land sold, with or without the security of any other
property, but such mortgage, if any buildings are comprised in the
mortgage, must contain a covenant by the mortgagor to keep those
buildings insured against loss or damage by fire to the full value of the
buildings.

 (3) Where any securities of a company are subject to a trust, the
trustees may concur in any scheme or arrangement —

       (a) for the reconstruction of the company;

       (b) for the sale of any or any part of the property and
            undertaking of the company to another company;

       (c) for the acquisition of the securities of the company, or of
            control of the securities, by another company;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
15  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (d) for the amalgamation of the company with another
         company;

    (e) for the release, modification, or variation of any rights,
        privileges or liabilities attached to the securities or any of
        them,

in the like manner as if they were entitled to those securities
beneficially, with power to accept any securities of any denomination
or description of the reconstructed or purchasing or new company in
lieu of or in exchange for all or any of the firstmentioned securities.

 (4) The trustees shall not be responsible for any loss occasioned by
any act or thing so done if they have discharged the statutory duty of
care, and may retain any securities so accepted as specified in
subsection (3) for any period for which they could have properly
retained the original securities.

 (5) If any conditional or preferential right to subscribe for any
securities in any company is offered to trustees in respect of any
holding in the company, they may, as to all or any of the securities,
either exercise that right and apply capital money subject to the trust
in payment of the consideration, or renounce that right, or assign for
the best consideration that can be reasonably obtained the benefit of
that right or the title to it to any person, including any beneficiary
under the trust, without being responsible for any loss occasioned by
any act or thing so done by them if they have discharged the statutory
duty of care.

 (6) The consideration for any assignment referred to in
subsection (5) must be held as capital money of the trust.

 (7) The powers conferred by this section are exercisable subject to
the consent of any person whose consent to a change of investment is
required by law or by the instrument (if any) creating the trust.

 (8) Where the loan mentioned in subsection (1), or the sale
mentioned in subsection (2), is made under the order of the court,
the powers conferred by those subsections, respectively, apply only if
and as far as the court may by order direct.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.            Trustees Act 1967                               16

Power to deposit at bank, to pay calls and to purchase dwelling
house for beneficiary

 12.—(1) Trustees may, pending the negotiation and preparation of
any mortgage or charge, or during any other time while an investment
is being sought for, pay any trust money into a bank to deposit or
other account, and all interest (if any) payable in respect of the money
must be applied as income.

 (2) Trustees may apply capital money subject to a trust in payment
of the calls on any shares subject to the same trust.

(3) Trustees may —

(a) where they are of the opinion that it is desirable to purchase
     a dwelling house for the use of any beneficiary under the
     trust, purchase a dwelling house with any trust funds,
     whether at the time in a state of investment or not; or

(b) retain any dwelling house that forms part of the trust
     despite any trust for conversion contained in the instrument
     creating the trust,

and permit the beneficiary to reside in the dwelling house upon such
terms and conditions consistent with the trust and the extent of the
interest of the beneficiary as the trustee thinks fit.

 (4) In subsection (3), “dwelling house” means a place of residence
and includes a building or tenement wholly or principally used,
constructed or adapted for human habitation.

                                    PART 3

             GENERAL POWERS OF TRUSTEES AND
                   PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVES

                               General powers

Power of trustees for sale to sell by auction, etc.

 13.—(1) Where a trust for sale or a power of sale of property is
vested in a trustee, the trustee may sell or concur with any other
person in selling all or any part of the property, either subject to prior
charges or not, and either together or in lots, by public auction or by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
17  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

private contract, subject to any such conditions respecting title or
evidence of title or other matter as the trustee thinks fit, with power to
vary any contract for sale, and to buy in at any auction, or to rescind
any contract for sale and to resell, without being answerable for any
loss.

 (2) A trust or power to sell or dispose of land includes a trust or
power to sell or dispose of part of the land, whether the division is
horizontal, vertical, or made in any other way.

Power to sell subject to depreciatory conditions

 14.—(1) No sale made by a trustee may be impeached by any
beneficiary upon the ground that any of the conditions subject to
which the sale was made may have been unnecessarily depreciatory,
unless it also appears that the consideration for the sale was thereby
rendered inadequate.

 (2) No sale made by a trustee may, after the execution of the
conveyance, be impeached as against the purchaser upon the ground
that any of the conditions subject to which the sale was made may
have been unnecessarily depreciatory, unless it appears that the
purchaser was acting in collusion with the trustee at the time when the
contract for sale was made.

 (3) No purchaser, upon any sale made by a trustee, is at liberty to
make any objection against the title upon any of the grounds as
mentioned in subsection (2).

 (4) This section applies to sales made before, on or after
1 September 1929.

Power of trustees to give receipts

 15.—(1) The written receipt of a trustee for any money, securities,
investments or other personal property or effects payable,
transferable or deliverable to the trustee under any trust or power —

       (a) is a sufficient discharge to the person paying, transferring
            or delivering the same; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         18

(b) effectually exonerates the person from seeing to the
     application or being answerable for any loss or
     misapplication thereof.

 (2) This section does not, except where the trustee is a trust
corporation, enable a sole trustee to give a valid receipt for the
proceeds of sale or other capital money arising under a trust for sale of
land.

 (3) Despite anything to the contrary in a disposition on trust for sale
of land or in the settlement of the net proceeds, the proceeds of sale or
other capital money arising under the disposition must not be paid to
or applied by the direction of fewer than 2 persons as trustees of the
disposition, except where the trustee is a trust corporation.

 (4) Subsection (3) does not affect the right of a sole personal
representative as such to give valid receipts for or direct the
application of the proceeds of sale or other capital money
mentioned in that subsection; nor, except where capital money
arises on a transaction, render it necessary to have more than one
trustee.

 (5) This section applies despite anything to the contrary in the
instrument (if any) creating the trust.

Power to compound liabilities

 16.—(1) A personal representative, or 2 or more trustees acting
together, or, subject to the restrictions imposed in regard to receipts
by a sole trustee not being a trust corporation, a sole acting trustee
where by the instrument (if any) creating the trust, or by statute, a sole
trustee is authorised to execute the trusts and powers reposed in him
or her, may, if and as he, she or they think fit —

       (a) accept any property before the time at which it is made
            transferable or payable;

       (b) sever and apportion any blended trust funds or property;

       (c) pay or allow any debt or claim on any evidence that he, she
            or they think sufficient;

       (d) accept any composition or any security for any debt or for
            any property claimed;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
19  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (e) allow any time for payment of any debt; or

    (f) compromise, compound, abandon, submit to arbitration or
        otherwise settle any debt, account, claim or thing whatever
        relating to the testator’s or intestate’s estate or to the trust.

 (2) For any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (f),
any of those persons may enter into, give, execute and do any
agreements, instruments of composition or arrangement, releases,
and other things as to him, her or them seem expedient, without being
responsible for any loss occasioned by any act or thing so done by
him, her or them if he or she has or they have discharged the statutory
duty of care.

Powers of trustees of renewable leaseholds to renew and raise
money for the purpose

 17.—(1) A trustee of any leaseholds for lives or years which are
renewable from time to time either under any covenant or contract, or
by custom or usual practice, may, if the trustee thinks fit, and must, if
required by any person having any beneficial interest, present or
future, or contingent, in the leaseholds, use the trustee’s best
endeavours to obtain from time to time a renewed lease of the
same hereditaments on the accustomed and reasonable terms, and for
that purpose may, from time to time, make or concur in making a
surrender of the lease for the time being subsisting, and do all other
requisite acts.

 (2) Where by the terms of the settlement or will the person in
possession for his or her life or other limited interest is entitled to
enjoy the same without any obligation to renew or to contribute to the
expense of renewal, this section does not apply unless the written
consent of that person is obtained to the renewal on the part of the
trustee.

 (3) If money is required to pay for the renewal, the trustee effecting
the renewal may pay the same out of any money then in the trustee’s
hands in trust for the persons beneficially interested in the lands to be
comprised in the renewed lease, and if the trustee has not in the
trustee’s hands sufficient money for the purpose the trustee may raise
the money required by mortgage of the hereditaments to be

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         20

comprised in the renewed lease or of any other hereditaments for the
time being subject to the uses or trusts to which those hereditaments
are subject.

 (4) No person advancing money upon a mortgage purporting to be
under subsection (3), is bound to see that the money is wanted, or that
no more is raised than is wanted for the purpose, or otherwise as to the
application of the money.

Power to raise money by sale, mortgage, etc.

 18.—(1) Where trustees are authorised by the instrument (if any)
creating the trust or by law to pay or apply capital money subject to
the trust for any purpose or in any manner, they have and are deemed
always to have had power to raise the money required by sale,
conversion, calling in, or mortgage of all or any part of the trust
property for the time being in possession.

 (2) This section applies despite anything to the contrary contained
in the instrument (if any) creating the trust, but does not apply to
trustees of property held for charitable purposes.

Protection to purchasers and mortgagees dealing with trustees

 19. No purchaser or mortgagee, paying or advancing money on a
sale or mortgage purporting to be made under any trust or power
vested in trustees, needs to be concerned to see that the money is
wanted, or that no more is raised than is wanted, or otherwise as to the
application of the money.

Devolution of powers or trusts

 20.—(1) Where a power or trust is given to or imposed on 2 or more
trustees jointly, the same may be exercised or performed by the
survivors or survivor of them for the time being.

 (2) Until the appointment of new trustees, the personal
representatives or representative for the time being of a sole
trustee, or, where there were 2 or more trustees, of the last
surviving or continuing trustee, is capable of exercising or
performing any power or trust which was given to, or capable of

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
21  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

being exercised by, the sole or last surviving or continuing trustee, or
other trustees or trustee for the time being of the trust.

 (3) This section takes effect subject to the restrictions imposed in
regard to receipts by a sole trustee, not being a trust corporation.

 (4) In this section, “personal representative” does not include an
executor who has renounced or has not proved.

Power to insure

 21.—(1) A trustee may —

       (a) insure any property which is subject to the trust against
            risks of loss or damage due to any event; and

       (b) pay the premiums out of the trust funds.

 (2) In the case of property held on a bare trust, the power to insure is
subject to any direction given by the beneficiary or each of the
beneficiaries that any property specified in the direction —

       (a) is not to be insured; or

       (b) is not to be insured except on such conditions as may be
            specified.

 (3) If a direction under subsection (2) is given, the power to insure,
so far as it is subject to the direction, ceases to be a delegable function
for the purposes of section 41B.

 (4) For the purposes of this section —

       (a) property is held on a bare trust if it is held on trust for —

               (i) a beneficiary who is of full age and capacity and
                   absolutely entitled to the property subject to the trust;
                   or

              (ii) beneficiaries each of whom is of full age and
                   capacity and who (taken together) are absolutely
                   entitled to the property subject to the trust; and

       (b) “trust funds” means any income or capital funds of the
            trust.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         22

 (5) This section applies in relation to trusts whether created before,
on or after 15 December 2004.

Application of insurance money where policy kept up under
any trust, power or obligation

 22.—(1) Money receivable by trustees or any beneficiary under a
policy of insurance against the loss or damage of any property that is
subject to a trust is capital money for the purpose of the trust, where
the policy has been kept up under any trust in that behalf or under any
power statutory or otherwise, or in the performance of any covenant
or of any obligation statutory or otherwise, or by a tenant for life
impeachable for waste.

 (2) If any such money is receivable by any person, other than the
trustees of the trust, that person must use that person’s best
endeavours to recover and receive the money, and must pay the net
residue of the money after discharging any costs of recovering and
receiving it, to the trustees of the trust, or, if there are no trustees
capable of giving a discharge, into court.

 (3) Any such money must —

       (a) if it was receivable in respect of property held upon trust
            for sale, be held upon the trusts and subject to the powers
            and provisions applicable to money arising by a sale under
            such trust; and

       (b) in any other case, be held upon trusts corresponding as
            nearly as may be with the trusts affecting the property in
            respect of which it was payable.

 (4) Such money, or any part of it, may also be applied by the
trustees, or, if in court, under the direction of the court, in rebuilding,
reinstating, replacing or repairing the property lost or damaged, but
any such application by the trustees is subject to the consent of any
person whose consent is required by the instrument (if any) creating
the trust to the investment of money subject to the trust.

 (5) Nothing in this section affects the right of any person to require
any such money or any part of the money to be applied in rebuilding,
reinstating, replacing or repairing the property lost or damaged, or the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
23  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

right of any mortgagee, lessor or lessee, whether under any statute or
otherwise.

 (6) This section applies to policies effected either before, on or after
1 September 1929, but only to money received on or after that date.

23. [Repealed by Act 45 of 2004]

Reversionary interests, valuations and audit

 24.—(1) Where trust property includes any share or interest in
property not vested in the trustees, or the proceeds of the sale of any
such property, or any other thing in action, the trustees on the same
falling into possession, or becoming payable or transferable, may —

       (a) agree or ascertain the amount or value thereof or any part
            thereof in any manner that they think fit;

       (b) accept in or towards satisfaction thereof, at the market or
            current value, or upon any valuation or estimate of value
            which they think fit, any authorised investments;

       (c) allow any deductions for duties, costs, charges and
            expenses which they think proper or reasonable;

       (d) execute any release in respect of the premises so as
            effectually to discharge all accountable parties from all
            liability in respect of any matters coming within the scope
            of the release,

without being responsible in any such case for any loss occasioned by
any act or thing so done by them if they have discharged the statutory
duty of care.

 (2) The trustees are not under any obligation and are not chargeable
with any breach of trust by reason of any omission —

       (a) to apply for any stop or other similar order upon any
            securities or other property out of or on which any share or
            interest or other thing in action mentioned in subsection (1)
            is derived, payable or charged; or

       (b) to take any proceedings on account of any act, default or
            neglect on the part of the persons in whom those securities

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         24

          or other property or any of them or any part of them is for
          the time being, or had at any time been, vested,

unless required in writing to do so by some person, or the guardian of
some person, beneficially interested under the trust, and unless also
due provision is made to their satisfaction for payment of the costs of
any proceedings required to be taken.

 (3) Nothing in subsection (2) relieves the trustees of the obligation
to get in and obtain payment or transfer of the share or interest or
other thing in action on the same falling into possession.

 (4) Trustees may, for the purpose of giving effect to the trust, or any
of the provisions of the instrument (if any) creating the trust or of any
statute, from time to time (by duly qualified agents) ascertain and fix
the value of any trust property in any manner that they think proper
and any valuation so made in discharge of the statutory duty of care is
binding upon all persons interested under the trust.

 (5) Trustees may, in their absolute discretion, from time to time, but
not more than once in every year unless the nature of the trust or any
special dealings with the trust property make a more frequent exercise
of the right reasonable, cause the accounts of the trust property to be
examined or audited by an independent accountant, and must, for that
purpose, produce such vouchers and give such information to the
accountant as the accountant may require.

 (6) The costs of the examination or audit, including the fee of the
auditor, must be paid out of the capital or income of the trust property,
or partly in one way and partly in the other as the trustees, in their
absolute discretion, think fit, but, in default of any direction by the
trustees to the contrary in any special case, costs attributable to capital
must be borne by capital and those attributable to income by income.

25. [Repealed by Act 45 of 2004]

Power to concur with others

 26. Where an undivided share in the proceeds of sale of land
directed to be sold, or in any other property, is subject to a trust, or
forms part of the estate of a testator or intestate, the trustees or
personal representatives may (without prejudice to the trust for sale

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
25  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

affecting the entirety of the land and the powers of the trustees for sale
in reference to the trust for sale) execute or exercise any trust or
power vested in them in relation to that share in conjunction with the
persons entitled to or having power in that behalf over the other share
or shares, and even though any one or more of the trustees or personal
representatives may be entitled to or interested in any such other
share, either in his, her or their own right or in a fiduciary capacity.

Delegation of trustee’s functions by power of attorney

 27.—(1) Despite any rule of law or equity to the contrary, a trustee
may, by power of attorney, delegate the execution or exercise of all or
any trusts, powers and discretions vested in the trustee as trustee
either alone or jointly with any other person or persons.

 (2) A delegation under this section —

       (a) commences as provided by the instrument creating the
            power or, if the instrument makes no provision as to the
            commencement of the delegation, on the date of the
            execution of the instrument by the donor; and

       (b) continues for a period of 18 months or any shorter period
            provided by the instrument creating the power.

 (3) The persons who may be donees of a power of attorney under
this section include a trust corporation.

 (4) Before or within 7 days after giving a power of attorney under
this section, the donor must give written notice of it (specifying the
date on which the power comes into operation and its duration, the
donee of the power, the reason why the power is given and, where
only some trusts, powers and discretions are delegated, the trusts,
powers and discretions delegated) to —

       (a) each person (other than the donor), if any, who under any
            instrument creating the trust has power (whether alone or
            jointly) to appoint a new trustee; and

       (b) each of the other trustees, if any,

but failure to comply with this subsection does not, in favour of a
person dealing with the donee of the power, invalidate any act done or
instrument executed by the donee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         26

 (5) A power of attorney given under this section by a single
donor —

(a) in the form set out in the Third Schedule; or

(b) in a form to the like effect but expressed to be made under
     this subsection,

operates to delegate to the person, identified in the form as the single
donee of the power, the execution and the exercise of all the trusts,
powers and discretions vested in the donor as trustee (either alone or
jointly with any other person or persons) under the single trust so
identified.

 (6) The donor of a power of attorney given under this section shall
be liable for the acts or defaults of the donee in the same manner as if
they were the acts or defaults of the donor.

 (7) For the purpose of executing or exercising the trusts or powers
delegated to the donee, the donee may exercise any of the powers
conferred on the donor as trustee by statute or by the instrument
creating the trust, including power, for the purpose of the transfer of
any inscribed stock or securities, for the donee to delegate to an
attorney the power to transfer, but not including the power of
delegation conferred by this section.

 (8) The fact that it appears from any power of attorney given under
this section, or from any evidence required for the purposes of any
such power of attorney or otherwise, that in dealing with any stock or
securities the donee of the power is acting in the execution of a trust,
is not deemed for any purpose to affect —

(a) the Depository (as defined in section 81SF of the Securities
     and Futures Act 2001);

(b) any person in whose books the stock is inscribed or
     registered; or

          (c) the issuer of the securities,

with any notice of the trust.

                                                                    [36/2014]

 (9) This section applies to a personal representative as it applies to a
trustee except that subsection (4) applies as if it required the notice

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
27  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

mentioned in it to be given to each of the other personal
representatives (if any) except any executor who has renounced
probate.

                                  Indemnities

Protection against liability in respect of rents and covenants

 28.—(1) This section applies to a personal representative or trustee
liable as such for —

       (a) any rent, covenant or agreement reserved by or contained
            in any lease;

       (b) any rent, covenant or agreement payable under or
            contained in any grant made in consideration of a
            rentcharge; or

       (c) any indemnity given in respect of any rent, covenant or
            agreement mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b).

 (2) Where a personal representative or trustee mentioned in
subsection (1) —

       (a) satisfies all liabilities under the lease or grant which may
            have accrued and been claimed, up to the date of any
            conveyance mentioned in paragraph (c); and

       (b) where necessary, sets apart a sufficient fund to answer any
            future claim that may be made in respect of any fixed and
            ascertained sum which the lessee or grantee agreed to lay
            out on the property demised or granted, although the period
            for laying out the same may not have arrived,

then and in any such case the personal representative or trustee —

       (c) may convey the property demised or granted to a
            purchaser, legatee, devisee, or other person entitled to
            call for a conveyance of the property; and

       (d) may then distribute the residuary estate of the deceased
            testator or intestate, or (as the case may be) the trust estate
            (other than the fund, if any, set apart as referred to in
            paragraph (b)) to or among the persons entitled to it,
            without appropriating any part, or any further part (as the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.               Trustees Act 1967                            28

          case may be) of the estate of the deceased or of the trust
          estate to meet any future liability under the lease or grant.

 (3) Despite any distribution referred to in subsection (2)(d), the
personal representative or trustee shall not be personally liable in
respect of any subsequent claim under the lease or grant.

(4) This section —

(a) operates without affecting the right of the lessor or grantor,
     or the persons deriving title under the lessor or grantor, to
     follow the assets of the deceased or the trust property into
     the hands of the persons among whom the same may have
     been respectively distributed; and

(b) applies despite anything to the contrary in the will or other
     instrument (if any) creating the trust.

(5) In this section —

“grant” applies to a grant whether the rent is created by
   limitation, grant, reservation, or otherwise, and includes an
   agreement for a grant and any instrument giving any
   indemnity mentioned in subsection (1) or varying the
   liabilities under the grant;

“lease” includes an underlease and an agreement for a lease or
   underlease and any instrument giving any indemnity
   mentioned in subsection (1) or varying the liabilities under
   the lease;

“lessee” and “grantee” include persons respectively deriving
   title under them.

Protection by means of advertisement

 29.—(1) With a view to the conveyance to or distribution among
the persons entitled to any movable or immovable property, the
trustees or personal representatives may give notice by advertisement
in the Gazette, and such other similar notices (including notices
elsewhere than in Singapore) as would, in any special case, have been
directed by a court of competent jurisdiction in an action for
administration, of their intention to make the conveyance or
distribution and requiring any person interested to send to the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
29  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

trustees or personal representatives within the time, being at least
2 months, fixed in the notice or, where more than one notice is given,
in the last of the notices, particulars of the person’s claim in respect of
the property or any part of the property to which the notice relates.

 (2) At the expiry of the time fixed by the notice, the trustees or
personal representatives may convey or distribute the property or any
part of the property to which the notice relates, to or among the
persons entitled to the property, having regard only to the claims
whether formal or not, of which the trustees or personal
representatives then had notice and shall not, as respects the
property so conveyed or distributed, be liable to any person of
whose claim the trustees or personal representatives have not had
notice at the time of conveyance or distribution.

(3) Nothing in this section —

    (a) affects the right of any person to follow the property, or any
         property representing the same, into the hands of any
         person, other than a purchaser, who may have received it;
         or

    (b) frees the trustees or personal representatives from any
         obligation to make searches similar to those which an
         intending purchaser would be advised to make or obtain.

 (4) This section applies despite anything to the contrary in the will
or other instrument (if any) creating the trust.

Protection in regard to notice

 30. A trustee or personal representative acting for the purposes of
more than one trust or estate is not, in the absence of fraud, affected
by notice of any instrument, matter, fact or thing in relation to any
particular trust or estate if the trustee or representative has obtained
notice thereof merely by reason of the trustee’s or representative’s
acting or having acted for the purposes of another trust or estate.

Exoneration of trustees in respect of certain powers of attorney

 31.—(1) A trustee acting or paying money in good faith under or
pursuant to any power of attorney shall not be liable for any such act
or payment by reason of the fact that at the time of the act or payment

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         30

the person who gave the power of attorney was subject to any
disability or bankrupt or dead, or had done or suffered some act or
thing to avoid the power, if this fact was not known to the trustee at
the time of the act or payment.

 (2) Nothing in this section affects the right of any person entitled to
the money against the person to whom the payment is made.

 (3) The person so entitled has the same remedy against the person to
whom the payment is made as the person so entitled would have had
against the trustee.

Implied indemnity of trustees

 32. A trustee is —

       (a) chargeable only for money and securities actually received
            by the trustee despite signing any receipt for the sake of
            conformity; and

       (b) answerable and accountable only for the trustee’s own acts,
            receipts, neglects or defaults, and not for those of any other
            trustee, or of any banker, broker or other person with whom
            any trust money or securities may be deposited, nor for the
            insufficiency or deficiency of any securities, nor for any
            other loss, unless the same happens through the trustee’s
            wilful default.

           Maintenance, advancement and protective trusts

Power to apply income for maintenance and to accumulate
surplus income during a minority

 33.—(1) Where any property is held by trustees in trust for any
person for any interest, whether vested or contingent, then, subject to
any prior interests or charges affecting that property —

       (a) during the infancy of that person, so long as his or her
            interest continues, the trustees may, at their sole discretion,
            pay to his or her parent or guardian (if any) or otherwise
            apply for or towards his or her maintenance, education or
            benefit, the whole or such part (if any) of the income of that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
31  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    property as may, in all the circumstances, be reasonable,
    whether or not there is —

    (i) any other fund applicable to the same purpose; or

    (ii) any person bound by law to provide for his or her
         maintenance or education; and

    (b) if that person on attaining 21 years of age has not a vested
         interest in the income, the trustees must from that time pay
         the income of that property and of any accretion mentioned
         in subsection (3) to him or her, until he or she either attains
         a vested interest in the income or dies, or until failure of his
         or her interest.

 (2) In deciding whether the whole or any part of the income of the
property is during a minority to be paid or applied for the purposes
mentioned in subsection (1), the trustees must have regard to the age
of the infant and the infant’s requirements and generally to the
circumstances of the case, and in particular to what other income (if
any) is applicable for the same purposes; and where trustees have
notice that the income of more than one fund is applicable for those
purposes, then, so far as practicable, unless the entire income of the
funds is paid or applied as mentioned in subsection (1) or the court
otherwise directs, a proportionate part only of the income of each
fund must be so paid or applied.

 (3) During the infancy of the person, so long as his or her interest
continues, the trustees must accumulate all the residue of that income
by investing it, and any profits from so investing it, from time to time
in authorised investments, and must hold those accumulations as
follows:

    (a) if the person —

    (i) attains 21 years of age, or marries under that age, and
        his or her interest in the income during his or her
        infancy or until marriage is a vested interest; or

    (ii) on attaining 21 years of age, or on marriage under
         that age, becomes entitled to the property from which
         the income arose in fee simple, absolute or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         32

          determinable, or under a grant issued under the State
          Lands Act 1920 or absolutely,

(a) the trustees must hold the accumulations in trust for that
     person absolutely, and so that the receipt of that person
     after marriage, and though still an infant, is a good
     discharge; and

(b) in any other case the trustees must, even though the person
     had a vested interest in the income, hold the accumulations
     as an accretion to the capital of the property from which the
     accumulations arose, and as one fund with such capital for
     all purposes,

but the trustees may, at any time during the infancy of the person, so
long as his or her interest continues, apply all or part of those
accumulations as if they were income arising in the then current year.

 (4) This section applies in the case of a contingent interest only if
the limitation or trust carries the intermediate income of the property,
but it applies to a future or contingent legacy by the parent of, or a
person standing in loco parentis to, the legatee, if and for such period
as, under the general law, the legacy carries interest for the
maintenance of the legatee, and in the latter case the rate of
interest is (if the income available is sufficient and subject to any
provision of the Rules of Court to the contrary) 5% per annum.

 (5) This section applies to a vested annuity in the same manner as if
the annuity were the income of property held by trustees in trust to
pay the income to the annuitant for the same period for which the
annuity is payable, except that in any case accumulations made
during the infancy of the annuitant must be held in trust for the
annuitant or the annuitant’s personal representatives absolutely.

 (6) This section does not apply where the instrument (if any) under
which the interest arises came into operation before 1 September
1929.

Power of advancement

 34.—(1) Trustees may at any time pay or apply any capital money
subject to a trust, for the advancement or benefit in any manner that

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
33  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

they may, in their absolute discretion, think fit, of any person entitled
to the capital of the trust property or of any share thereof, whether
absolutely or contingently on the person attaining any specified age
or on the occurrence of any other event, or subject to a gift over on the
person’s death under any specified age or on the occurrence of any
other event, and whether in possession or in remainder or reversion.

 (2) Any payment or application may be made under subsection (1)
even though the person’s interest is liable to be defeated by the
exercise of a power of appointment or revocation, or to be diminished
by the increase of the class to which the person belongs.

 (3) The money paid or applied under subsection (1) for the
advancement or benefit of any person must not exceed altogether
in amount one‑half of the presumptive or vested share or interest of
that person in the trust property; and if that person is or becomes
absolutely and indefeasibly entitled to a share in the trust property the
money so paid or applied must be brought into account as part of such
share.

 (4) No payment or application may be made under subsection (1) so
as to affect any person’s entitlement to any prior life or other interest,
whether vested or contingent, in the money paid or applied unless that
person is in existence and of full age and consents in writing to the
payment or application.

 (5) This section does not apply to trusts constituted or created
before 1 September 1929.

Protective trusts

 35.—(1) Where any income, including an annuity or other
periodical income payment, is directed to be held on protective
trusts for the benefit of any person (called in this section the principal
beneficiary) for the period of the person’s life or for any less period,
then, during the period (called in this section the trust period) such
income must, without prejudice to any prior interest, be held on the
following trusts:

       (a) upon trust for the principal beneficiary during the trust
            period or until the principal beneficiary, whether before or
            after the termination of any prior interest, does or attempts

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         34

          to do or suffers any act or thing, or until any event happens,
          other than an advance under any statutory or express
          power, whereby, if the income were payable during the
          trust period to the principal beneficiary absolutely during
          that period, the principal beneficiary would be deprived of
          the right to receive the same or any part of it, in any of
          which cases, as well as on the termination of the trust
          period, whichever first happens, this trust of the income
          fails or determines;

(b) if the trust referred to in paragraph (a) fails or determines
     during the subsistence of the trust period, then, during the
     residue of that period, the income must be held upon trust
     to be applied for the maintenance or support, or otherwise
     for the benefit, of all or any one or more exclusively of the
     other or others of the following persons as the trustees in
     their absolute discretion, without being liable to account
     for the exercise of their discretion, think fit:

          (i) the principal beneficiary and his or her wife or
              husband (if any) and his or her children or more
              remote issue, if any; or

          (ii) if there is no wife or husband or issue of the principal
               beneficiary in existence, the principal beneficiary
               and the persons who would, if the principal
               beneficiary were actually dead, be entitled to the
               trust property or its income or to the annuity fund (if
               any) or arrears of the annuity, as the case may be.

 (2) This section does not apply to trusts coming into operation
before 1 September 1929 and has effect subject to any variation of the
implied trusts aforesaid contained in the instrument creating the trust.

 (3) Nothing in this section operates to validate any trust which
would, if contained in the instrument creating the trust, be liable to be
set aside.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
35  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    APPOINTMENT AND DISCHARGE OF TRUSTEES

Limitation of the number of trustees

 36.—(1) In the case of settlements and dispositions on trust of
property, whether movable or immovable, made or coming into
operation on or after 1 September 1929 —

    (a) the number of trustees must not in any case exceed 4, and
         where more than 4 persons are named as trustees, the 4 first
         named (who are able and willing to act) must alone be the
         trustees, and the other persons named must not be trustees
         unless appointed on the occurrence of a vacancy; and

    (b) the number of the trustees must not be increased beyond 4.

 (2) The restrictions imposed on the number of trustees do not apply
in the case of property vested in trustees for charitable, religious or
public purposes.

Power of appointing new or additional trustees

 37.—(1) Where a trustee, either original or substituted, and whether
appointed by a court or otherwise —

       (a) is dead;

       (b) remains out of Singapore for more than 12 months;

       (c) desires to be discharged from all or any of the trusts or
            powers reposed in or conferred on the trustee;

       (d) refuses or is unfit to act in the trust;

       (e) is incapable of acting in the trust; or

        (f) is an infant,

then, subject to the restrictions imposed by this Act on the number of
trustees —

       (g) the person or persons nominated for the purpose of
            appointing new trustees by the instrument (if any)
            creating the trust; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         36

(h) if there is no such person, or no such person able and
     willing to act, then the surviving or continuing trustees or
     trustee for the time being, or the personal representatives of
     the last surviving or continuing trustee,

may, by writing, appoint one or more other persons (whether or not
being the persons exercising the power) to be a trustee or trustees in
the place of the trustee so deceased, remaining out of Singapore,
desiring to be discharged, refusing, or being unfit or being incapable,
or being an infant.

 (2) Where a trustee has been removed under a power contained in
the instrument creating the trust, a new trustee or new trustees may be
appointed in the place of the trustee who is removed, as if the
removed trustee were dead, or, in the case of a corporation, as if the
corporation desired to be discharged from the trust, and this section
applies accordingly, but subject to the restrictions imposed by this Act
on the number of trustees.

 (3) Where a corporation being a trustee is or has been dissolved,
either before, on or after 1 September 1929, then, for the purposes of
this section and of any written law replaced by this section, the
corporation is deemed to be and to have been from the date of the
dissolution incapable of acting in the trusts or powers reposed in or
conferred on the corporation.

 (4) The power of appointment given by subsection (1) or any
similar previous written law to the personal representatives of a last
surviving or continuing trustee is and is deemed always to have been
exercisable by the executors for the time being (whether original or
by representation) of the surviving or continuing trustee who have
proved the will of their testator or by the administrators for the time
being of such trustee without the concurrence of any executor who
has renounced or has not proved.

 (5) But a sole or last surviving executor intending to renounce, or
all the executors where they all intend to renounce, has or have and is
or are deemed always to have had power, at any time before
renouncing probate, to exercise the power of appointment given by
this section, or by any similar previous written law, if willing to act
for that purpose and without thereby accepting the office of executor.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
37  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (6) Where a sole trustee, other than a trust corporation, is or has
been originally appointed to act in a trust, or where, in the case of any
trust, there are not more than 3 trustees (none of them being a trust
corporation) either original or substituted and whether appointed by
the court or otherwise, then and in any such case —

    (a) the person or persons nominated for the purpose of
         appointing new trustees by the instrument (if any)
         creating the trust; or

    (b) if there is no such person, or no such person able and
         willing to act, then the trustee or trustees for the time being,

may, by writing, appoint another person or other persons to be an
additional trustee or additional trustees.

 (7) It is not obligatory to appoint any additional trustee under
subsection (6) unless the instrument (if any) creating the trust, or any
written law provides to the contrary, nor is the number of trustees to
be increased beyond 4 by virtue of any such appointment.

 (8) Every new trustee appointed under this section, as well before
as after all the trust property becomes by law, or by assurance, or
otherwise, vested in the new trustee, has the same powers, authorities
and discretions, and may in all respects act as if the new trustee had
been originally appointed a trustee by the instrument (if any) creating
the trust.

 (9) The provisions of this section relating to a trustee who is dead
include the case of a person nominated a trustee in a will but dying
before the testator, and those relative to a continuing trustee include a
refusing or retiring trustee, if willing to act in the execution of the
provisions of this section.

 (10) Where a trustee lacks capacity (within the meaning of the
Mental Capacity Act 2008) to exercise his or her functions as trustee
and is also entitled in possession to some beneficial interest in the
trust property, no appointment of a new trustee in his or her place is to
be made by the continuing trustees or trustee, under this section,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         38

unless permission has been given by the court to make the
appointment.

                                                                                                           [21/2008]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Supplemental provisions as to appointment of trustees

 38.—(1) On the appointment of a trustee for the whole or any part
of trust property —

       (a) the number of trustees may, subject to the restrictions
            imposed by this Act on the number of trustees, be
            increased;

       (b) a separate set of trustees, not exceeding 4, may be
            appointed for any part of the trust property held on trusts
            distinct from those relating to any other part or parts of the
            trust property, even though no new trustees or trustee are or
            is to be appointed for other parts of the trust property, and
            any existing trustee may be appointed or remain one of
            such separate set of trustees, or, if only one trustee was
            originally appointed, then, except as hereinafter provided,
            one separate trustee may be appointed;

       (c) it is not obligatory, except as hereinafter provided, to
            appoint more than one new trustee where only one trustee
            was originally appointed, or to fill up the original number
            of trustees where more than 2 trustees were originally
            appointed, but, except where only one trustee was
            originally appointed, and a sole trustee when appointed
            will be able to give valid receipts for all capital money, a
            trustee must not be discharged from the trust unless there
            will be either a trust corporation or at least 2 individuals to
            act as trustees to perform the trust; and

       (d) any assurance or thing requisite for vesting the trust
            property or any part of that property in a sole trustee, or
            jointly in the persons who are the trustees, must be
            executed or done.

 (2) Nothing in this Act authorises the appointment of a sole trustee,
not being a trust corporation, where the trustee, when appointed,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
39  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

would not be able to give valid receipts for all capital money arising
under the trust.

Evidence as to a vacancy in a trust

 39.—(1) A statement contained in any instrument coming into
operation on or after 1 September 1929 by which a new trustee is
appointed for any purpose connected with land, to the effect that a
trustee has remained out of Singapore for more than 12 months or
refuses or is unfit to act, or is incapable of acting, or that the trustee is
not entitled to a beneficial interest in the trust property in possession,
is, in favour of a purchaser of a legal estate, conclusive evidence of
the matter stated.

 (2) In favour of such purchaser, any appointment of a new trustee
depending on that statement and any vesting declaration, express or
implied, consequent on the appointment, is valid.

Retirement of trustee without a new appointment

 40.—(1) Where a trustee is desirous of being discharged from the
trust, and after the trustee’s discharge there will be either a trust
corporation or at least 2 individuals to act as trustees to perform the
trust, then —

       (a) if the trustee by deed declares that he or she is desirous of
            being discharged from the trust; and

       (b) if his or her co‑trustees and such other person (if any) as is
            empowered to appoint trustees, by deed consent to the
            discharge of the trustee, and to the vesting in the
            co‑trustees alone of the trust property,

the trustee desirous of being discharged is deemed to have retired
from the trust, and is, by the deed, discharged from the trust under this
Act, without any new trustee being appointed in his or her place.

 (2) Any assurance or thing requisite for vesting the trust property in
the continuing trustees alone must be executed or done.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         40

Vesting of trust property in new or continuing trustees

 41.—(1) Where by a deed a new trustee is appointed to perform any
trust, then —

(a) if the deed contains a declaration by the appointor to the
     effect that any estate or interest in any land subject to the
     trust, or in any chattel so subject, or the right to recover or
     receive any debt or other thing in action so subject, vests in
     the persons who by virtue of the deed become or are the
     trustees for performing the trust, the deed operates, without
     any conveyance or assignment, to vest in those persons as
     joint tenants and for the purposes of the trust the estate,
     interest or right to which the declaration relates; and

(b) if the deed is made on or after 1 September 1929 and does
     not contain such a declaration, the deed operates, subject to
     any express provision to the contrary in the deed, as if it
     had contained such a declaration by the appointor
     extending to all the estates, interests and rights with
     respect to which a declaration could have been made.

 (2) Where by a deed a retiring trustee is discharged under the
statutory power without a new trustee being appointed, then —

(a) if the deed contains a declaration as mentioned in
     subsection (1) by the retiring and continuing trustees,
     and by the other person (if any) empowered to appoint
     trustees, the deed operates, without any conveyance or
     assignment, to vest in the continuing trustees alone, as joint
     tenants, and for the purposes of the trust, the estate, interest
     or right to which the declaration relates; and

(b) if the deed is made on or after 1 September 1929 and does
     not contain such a declaration, the deed operates, subject to
     any express provision to the contrary in the deed, as if it
     had contained such a declaration by such persons as
     referred to in paragraph (a) extending to all the estates,
     interests and rights with respect to which a declaration
     could have been made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
41  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

(3) An express vesting declaration —

    (a) whether made before, on or after 1 September 1929;

    (b) even though the estate, interest or right to be vested is not
         expressly referred to; and

    (c) provided that the other statutory requirements were or are
        complied with,

operates and is deemed always to have operated (but without
prejudice to any express provision to the contrary contained in the
deed of appointment or discharge) to vest in the persons respectively
referred to in subsections (1) and (2), as the case may require, such
estates, interests and rights as are capable of being and ought to be
vested in those persons.

(4) This section does not extend —

    (a) to land conveyed by way of mortgage for securing money
         subject to the trust, except land conveyed on trust for
         securing debentures or debenture stock;

    (b) to land held under a lease which contains any covenant,
         condition or agreement against assignment or disposing of
         the land without licence or consent, unless, prior to the
         execution of the deed containing expressly or impliedly the
         vesting declaration, the requisite licence or consent has
         been obtained, or unless by virtue of any written law or rule
         of law, the vesting declaration, express or implied, would
         not operate as a breach of covenant or give rise to a
         forfeiture; or

    (c) to any share, stock, annuity or property which is only
        transferable in books kept by a company or other body, or
        in the manner directed by or under any written law.

 (5) In subsection (4), “lease” includes an underlease and an
agreement for a lease or underlease.

 (6) This section applies to deeds of appointment or discharge
executed on or after 1 August 1886.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.                  Trustees Act 1967                         42

                          PART 4A

          AGENTS, NOMINEES AND CUSTODIANS

Application of this Part

 41A.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Part applies in relation to
trusts whether created before, on or after 15 December 2004.

 (2) Except as otherwise provided in section 41I(4), this Part applies
in relation to a trust having a sole trustee as it applies in relation to
other trusts, and references to trustees in this Part (except in
sections 41C(1) and (3) and 41J(4)) are to be read accordingly.

                                     Agents

Power to appoint agents

 41B.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the trustees of a
trust may authorise any person to exercise all or any of their delegable
functions as their agent.

 (2) In the case of a trust other than a charitable trust, the trustees’
delegable functions consist of any function other than —

       (a) any function relating to whether or in what way any assets
            of the trust should be distributed;

       (b) any power to decide whether any fees or other payment due
            to be made out of the trust funds should be made out of
            income or capital;

       (c) any power to appoint a person to be a trustee of the trust; or

       (d) any power conferred by any other written law or the trust
            instrument which permits the trustees to delegate any of
            their functions or to appoint a person to act as a nominee or
            custodian.

 (3) In the case of a charitable trust, the trustees’ delegable functions
are —

       (a) any function relating to carrying out a decision that the
            trustees have taken;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
43  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) any function relating to the investment of assets subject to
         the trust (including, in the case of land held as an
         investment, managing the land and creating or disposing
         of an interest in the land); and

    (c) any function relating to the raising of funds for the trust
        otherwise than by means of profits of a trade which is an
        integral part of carrying out the trust’s charitable purpose.

 (4) For the purposes of subsection (3)(c), a trade is an integral part
of carrying out a trust’s charitable purpose if, whether carried on in
Singapore or elsewhere, the profits are applied solely to the purposes
of the trust and either —

    (a) the trade is exercised in the course of the actual carrying
         out of a primary purpose of the trust; or

    (b) the work in connection with the trade is mainly carried out
         by beneficiaries of the trust.

Persons who may act as agents

 41C.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the persons whom the trustees
may under section 41B authorise to exercise functions as their agent
include one or more of their number.

 (2) The trustees may not authorise 2 or more persons to exercise the
same function unless they are to exercise the function jointly.

 (3) The trustees may not, under section 41B, authorise a beneficiary
to exercise any function as their agent (even if the beneficiary is also a
trustee).

 (4) The trustees may, under section 41B, authorise a person to
exercise functions as their agent even though the person is also
appointed to act as their nominee or custodian (whether under
section 41G, 41H or 41I or any other power).

Linked functions, etc.

 41D.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person who is authorised
under section 41B to exercise any function is, despite the terms of the
agency, subject to any specific duties or restrictions attached to the
function.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         44

.         Example

       A person who is authorised under section 41B to exercise the general
   power of investment is subject to the duties under section 5 in relation to
   that power.

 (2) A person who is authorised under section 41B to exercise a
power which is subject to a requirement to obtain advice is not subject
to the requirement if the person is the kind of person from whom it
would have been proper for the trustees, in compliance with the
requirement, to obtain advice.

Terms of agency

 41E.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and sections 41F(2), 41R, 41S
and 41T, the trustees may authorise a person to exercise functions as
their agent on any terms as to remuneration and other matters that
they may determine.

 (2) The trustees may not authorise a person to exercise functions as
their agent on any of the terms set out in subsection (3) unless it is
reasonably necessary for them to do so.

 (3) The terms for the purposes of subsection (2) are —

       (a) a term permitting the agent to appoint a substitute;

       (b) a term restricting the liability of the agent or the agent’s
            substitute to the trustees or any beneficiary; and

       (c) a term permitting the agent to act in circumstances capable
            of giving rise to a conflict of interest.

Asset management — special restrictions

 41F.—(1) The trustees may not authorise a person to exercise any
of their asset management functions as their agent except by an
agreement which is in writing or evidenced in writing.

 (2) The trustees may not authorise a person to exercise any of their
asset management functions as their agent unless —

       (a) the trustees have provided that person with a statement that
            gives guidance as to how the functions should be exercised
            (called in this Act a policy statement); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
45  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) the agreement under which the agent is to act includes a
         term to the effect that the agent will secure compliance
         with —

    (i) the policy statement; or

    (ii) if the policy statement is revised or replaced under
         section 41M, the revised or replacement policy
         statement.

 (3) The trustees must formulate any guidance given in the policy
statement with a view to ensuring that the functions will be exercised
in the best interests of the trust.

(4) The policy statement must be in writing or evidenced in writing.

 (5) For the purposes of this section, the asset management functions
of trustees are their functions relating to —

    (a) the investment of assets subject to the trust;

    (b) the acquisition of property which is to be subject to the
         trust; and

    (c) the management of property which is subject to the trust
        and the disposal of, or the creation or disposal of an interest
        in, such property.

                         Nominees and custodians

Power to appoint nominees

 41G.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the trustees of a
trust may —

       (a) appoint a person to act as their nominee in relation to such
            of the assets of the trust as they may determine (other than
            settled land); and

       (b) take any steps that are necessary to secure that those assets
            are vested in a person so appointed.

 (2) An appointment under this section must be in writing or
evidenced in writing.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         46

Power to appoint custodians

 41H.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the trustees of a
trust may appoint a person to act as a custodian in relation to such of
the assets of the trust as the trustees may determine.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person is a custodian in relation to
assets if the person undertakes the safe custody of the assets or of any
document or record concerning the assets.

 (3) An appointment under this section must be in writing or
evidenced in writing.

Investment in bearer securities

 41I.—(1) If trustees retain or invest in securities payable to bearer,
they must appoint a person to act as a custodian of the securities.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply if the trust instrument or any
written law contains any provision which (however expressed)
permits the trustees to retain or invest in securities payable to bearer
without appointing a person to act as a custodian.

 (3) An appointment under this section must be in writing or
evidenced in writing.

 (4) This section does not impose a duty on a sole trustee if that
trustee is a trust corporation.

Persons who may be appointed as nominees or custodians

 41J.—(1) A person may not be appointed under section 41G, 41H
or 41I as a nominee or custodian or continue to act as such nominee or
custodian unless —

       (a) the person carries on a business which consists of or
            includes acting as a nominee or custodian; or

       (b) the person is a body corporate which is controlled by the
            trustees.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1)(b), a body corporate is
controlled by the trustees if the trustees have power to secure —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
47  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) by means of the holding of shares or the possession of
         voting power in or in relation to that or any other body
         corporate; or

    (b) by virtue of any powers conferred by the articles of
         association or other document regulating that or any other
         body corporate,

that the affairs of the firstmentioned body corporate are conducted in
accordance with the wishes of the trustees.

 (3) The trustees of a charitable trust which is registered under the
Charities Act 1994 must act in accordance with any guidance given
by the Commissioner of Charities concerning the selection of a
person for appointment as a nominee or custodian under section 41G,
41H or 41I.

 (4) Subject to subsections (1) and (3), the persons whom the
trustees may, under section 41G, 41H or 41I, appoint as a nominee or
custodian include —

    (a) one of their number, if that one is a trust corporation; or

    (b) 2 or more of their number, if they are to act as joint
         nominees or joint custodians.

 (5) The trustees may, under section 41G, appoint a person to act as
their nominee even though the person is also —

    (a) appointed to act as their custodian (whether under
         section 41H or 41I or any other power); or

    (b) authorised to exercise functions as their agent (whether
         under section 41B or any other power).

 (6) The trustees may, under section 41H or 41I, appoint a person to
act as their custodian even though the person is also —

    (a) appointed to act as their nominee (whether under
         section 41G or any other power); or

    (b) authorised to exercise functions as their agent (whether
         under section 41B or any other power).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         48

Terms of appointment of nominees and custodians

 41K.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and sections 41R, 41S and 41T,
the trustees may, under section 41G, 41H or 41I, appoint a person to
act as a nominee or custodian on any terms as to remuneration and
other matters that they may determine.

 (2) The trustees may not, under section 41G, 41H or 41I, appoint a
person to act as a nominee or custodian on any of the terms set out in
subsection (3) unless it is reasonably necessary for them to do so.

(3) The terms for the purposes of subsection (2) are —

(a) a term permitting the nominee or custodian to appoint a
     substitute;

(b) a term restricting the liability of the nominee or custodian,
     or a substitute of the nominee or custodian, to the trustees
     or to any beneficiary; and

          (c) a term permitting the nominee or custodian to act in
              circumstances capable of giving rise to a conflict of
              interest.

 Review of and liability for agents, nominees and custodians, etc.

Application of sections 41M and 41N

 41L.—(1) Sections 41M and 41N apply in a case where trustees
have, under section 41B, 41G, 41H or 41I —

       (a) authorised a person to exercise functions as their agent; or

       (b) appointed a person to act as a nominee or custodian.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), sections 41M and 41N also apply in a
case where trustees have, under any power conferred on them by the
trust instrument or by any written law —

       (a) authorised a person to exercise functions as their agent; or

       (b) appointed a person to act as a nominee or custodian.

 (3) If the application of section 41M or 41N in a case is inconsistent
with the terms of the trust instrument or any written law, that section
does not apply to that case.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
49  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

Review of agents, nominees and custodians, etc.

 41M.—(1) While the agent, nominee or custodian continues to act
for the trust, it is the duty of the trustees —

    (a) to keep under review the arrangements under which the
         agent, nominee or custodian acts and the manner in which
         those arrangements are being put into effect;

    (b) if circumstances make it appropriate to do so, to consider
         whether there is a need to exercise any power of
         intervention that they have; and

    (c) if they consider that there is a need to do so, to exercise the
        power of intervention.

 (2) If the agent has been authorised to exercise asset management
functions, the duty under subsection (1) includes, in particular —

    (a) a duty to consider whether there is any need to revise or
         replace the policy statement made for the purposes of
         section 41F;

    (b) if the trustees consider that there is a need to revise or
         replace the policy statement, a duty to do so; and

    (c) a duty to assess whether the policy statement (as it has
        effect for the time being) is being complied with.

 (3) Section 41F(3) and (4) applies to the revision or replacement of
a policy statement under this section as it applies to the making of a
policy statement under that section.

(4) In this section, “power of intervention” includes —

    (a) a power to give directions to the agent, nominee or
         custodian; and

    (b) a power to revoke the authorisation or appointment of the
         agent, nominee or custodian.

Liability for agents, nominees and custodians, etc.

 41N.—(1) A trustee shall not be liable for any act or default of the
agent, nominee or custodian unless the trustee fails to comply with

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         50

the statutory duty of care applicable to the trustee under paragraph 3
of the First Schedule when —

(a) entering into the arrangements under which the person acts
     as agent, nominee or custodian; or

(b) carrying out the trustee’s duties under section 41M.

 (2) If a trustee has agreed to a term under which the agent, nominee
or custodian is permitted to appoint a substitute, the trustee is not
liable for any act or default of the substitute unless the trustee has
failed to comply with the statutory duty of care applicable to the
trustee under paragraph 3 of the First Schedule —

(a) when agreeing to that term; or

(b) when carrying out the trustee’s duties under section 41M
     insofar as they relate to the use of the substitute.

                                Supplementary
Effect of trustees exceeding their powers

 41O. A failure by the trustees to act within the limits of the powers
conferred by this Part —

       (a) in authorising a person to exercise a function of theirs as an
            agent; or

       (b) in appointing a person to act as a nominee or custodian,
does not invalidate the authorisation or appointment.

                                   PART 4B

                             REMUNERATION

Application of this Part

 41P.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), sections 41Q to 41T apply in
relation to —

       (a) services provided to or on behalf of trusts, whenever
            created; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
51  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) expenses incurred on or after 15 December 2004 on behalf
         of trusts, whenever created.

 (2) Nothing in section 41Q or 41R is to be treated as affecting the
operation of —

    (a) section 57(4) of the Probate and Administration Act 1934
         (Administration of assets); or

    (b) section 10 of the Wills Act 1838 (Gifts to attesting witness
         or to wife or husband of attesting witness to be void),

in relation to any death occurring before 15 December 2004.

Trustee’s entitlement to payment under trust instrument

 41Q.—(1) Except to the extent (if any) to which the trust
instrument makes an inconsistent provision, subsections (2), (3)
and (4) apply to a trustee if —

       (a) there is a provision in the trust instrument entitling the
            trustee to receive payment out of trust funds in respect of
            services provided by the trustee to or on behalf of the trust;
            and

       (b) the trustee is a trust corporation or is acting in a
            professional capacity.

 (2) The trustee is treated as being entitled under the trust instrument
to receive payment in respect of services even if the services are
capable of being provided by a lay trustee.

 (3) Subsection (2) applies to a trustee of a charitable trust who is not
a trust corporation only —

       (a) if the trustee is not a sole trustee; and

       (b) to the extent that a majority of the other trustees have
            agreed that it should apply to the trustee.

 (4) Any payment to which the trustee is entitled in respect of
services is treated as remuneration for services (and not as a gift) for
the purposes of —

       (a) section 57(4) of the Probate and Administration Act 1934
            (Administration of assets); and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         52

(b) section 10 of the Wills Act 1838 (Gifts to attesting witness
     or to wife or husband of attesting witness to be void).

 (5) For the purposes of this Part, a trustee acts in a professional
capacity if the trustee acts in the course of a profession or business
which consists of or includes the provision of services in connection
with —

(a) the management or administration of trusts generally or a
     particular kind of trust; or

(b) any particular aspect of the management or administration
     of trusts generally or a particular kind of trust,

and the services the trustee provides to or on behalf of the trust fall
within that description.

 (6) For the purposes of this Part, a person acts as a lay trustee if the
person —

(a) is not a trust corporation; and

(b) does not act in a professional capacity.

Remuneration of certain trustees

 41R.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), a trustee who is a trust
corporation is entitled to receive reasonable remuneration out of the
trust funds for any services that the trust corporation provides to or on
behalf of the trust.

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), a trustee who —

       (a) acts in a professional capacity; and

       (b) is not a trust corporation or a sole trustee,

is entitled to receive reasonable remuneration out of the trust funds
for any services that the trustee provides to or on behalf of the trust if
each other trustee has agreed in writing that the firstmentioned trustee
may be remunerated for the services.

 (3) A trustee is entitled to remuneration under this section even if
the services in question are capable of being provided by a lay trustee.

 (4) A trustee is not entitled to remuneration under this section if any
provision about the entitlement to remuneration has been made —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
53  Trustees Act 1967                                          2020 Ed.

    (a) by the trust instrument; or

    (b) by any written law.

 (5) This section applies to a trustee who has been authorised under a
power conferred by Part 4A or the trust instrument —

    (a) to exercise functions as an agent of the trustees; or

    (b) to act as a nominee or custodian,

as it applies to any other trustee.

 (6) In this section, “reasonable remuneration” means, in relation to
the provision of services by a trustee, such remuneration as is
reasonable in the circumstances for the provision of those services to
or on behalf of that trust by that trustee.

Trustees’ expenses
 41S.—(1) A trustee —
       (a) is entitled to be reimbursed from the trust funds; or
       (b) may pay out of the trust funds,

reasonable expenses properly incurred by the trustee when acting on
behalf of the trust.

 (2) This section applies to a trustee who has been authorised under a
power conferred by Part 4A or any other written law, or by the trust
instrument —

       (a) to exercise functions as an agent of the trustees; or
       (b) to act as a nominee or custodian,
as it applies to any other trustee.

Remuneration and expenses of agents, nominees and
custodians

 41T.—(1) This section applies if, under a power conferred by
Part 4A or any other written law, or by the trust instrument, a person
other than a trustee has been —

       (a) authorised to exercise functions as an agent of the trustees;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                      54

(b) appointed to act as a nominee or custodian.

 (2) The trustees may remunerate the person mentioned in
subsection (1) out of the trust funds for services if —

(a) the person is engaged on terms entitling the person to be
     remunerated for those services; and

(b) the amount does not exceed such remuneration as is
     reasonable in the circumstances for the provision of those
     services by the person to or on behalf of that trust.

 (3) The trustees may reimburse the person mentioned in
subsection (1) out of the trust funds for any reasonable expenses
properly incurred by the person in exercising functions as an agent,
nominee or custodian.

                                    PART 5

                           POWERS OF COURT

Power of court to appoint new trustees

 42.—(1) The court may, whenever it is expedient to appoint a new
trustee or new trustees, and it is found inexpedient, difficult or
impracticable to do so without the assistance of the court, make an
order appointing a new trustee or new trustees either in substitution
for or in addition to any existing trustee or trustees, although there is
no existing trustee.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the court may make an order
appointing a new trustee in substitution for a trustee who is —

       (a) sentenced to a term of imprisonment;

       (b) found to lack capacity (within the meaning of the Mental
            Capacity Act 2008) to exercise the trustee’s functions as
            trustee;

       (c) a bankrupt; or

       (d) a corporation which is in liquidation or has been dissolved.

                                                                                                           [21/2008]

 (3) An order made under this section, and any consequential vesting
order or conveyance, does not operate further, or otherwise as a

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
55  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

discharge to any former or continuing trustee, than an appointment of
new trustees under any power for that purpose contained in any
instrument would have operated.

(4) Nothing in this section —

    (a) gives power to appoint an executor or administrator;

    (b) prevents a donee of a lasting power of attorney created by a
         trustee from acting for the trustee when the trustee lacks
         capacity to exercise the trustee’s functions as trustee.

                                                                                                     [22/2008]

Power to authorise remuneration

 43. The court may allow any trustee, other than the Public Trustee,
such remuneration for the trustee’s services as trustee as the court
thinks fit.

Powers of new trustee appointed by the court

 44. Every trustee appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction
has, as well before as after the trust property becomes by law, or by
assurance, or otherwise, vested in the trustee, the same powers,
authorities and discretions, and may in all respects act as if the trustee
had been originally appointed a trustee by the instrument (if any)
creating the trust.

                                Vesting orders

Vesting orders of land

 45.—(1) Subsection (2) applies to the following cases:

       (a) where the court appoints or has appointed a trustee, or
            where a trustee has been appointed out of court under any
            statutory or express power;

       (b) where a trustee entitled to or possessed of any land or
            interest in land, whether by way of mortgage or otherwise,
            or entitled to a contingent right in land, either solely or
            jointly with any other person —

               (i) is under disability;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         56

          (ii) is out of the jurisdiction of the court; or

          (iii) cannot be found, or, being a corporation, has been
                dissolved;

          (c) where it is uncertain who was the survivor of 2 or more
              trustees jointly entitled to or possessed of any interest in
              land;

(d) where it is uncertain whether the last trustee known to have
     been entitled to or possessed of any interest in land is living
     or dead;

          (e) where there is no personal representative of a deceased
              trustee who was entitled to or possessed of any interest in
              land, or where it is uncertain who is the personal
              representative of a deceased trustee who was entitled to
              or possessed of any interest in land;

          (f) where there is no personal representative of a deceased
              mortgagee who was entitled to or possessed of any interest
              in land, or where it is uncertain who is the personal
              representative of a deceased mortgagee who was entitled to
              or possessed of any interest in land, or where it is uncertain
              whether any mortgagee entitled to or possessed of any
              interest in land is living or dead, or where any mortgagee
              entitled to or possessed of any interest in land is out of the
              jurisdiction of the court or cannot be found or being a
              corporation has been dissolved;

(g) where a trustee jointly or solely entitled to or possessed of
     any interest in land, or entitled to a contingent right therein,
     has been required, by or on behalf of a person entitled to
     require a conveyance of the land or interest or a release of
     the right, to convey the land or interest or to release the
     right, and has wilfully refused or neglected to convey the
     land or interest or release the right for 28 days after the date
     of the requirement; or

(h) where land or any interest in land is vested in a trustee
     whether by way of mortgage or otherwise and it appears to

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
57  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    the court to be expedient to make an order under
    subsection (2).

 (2) In any of the cases mentioned in subsection (1), the court may
make an order (called in this Act a vesting order) —

    (a) vesting the land or interest in the land in any person in any
         manner and for any estate or interest that the court may
         direct; or

    (b) releasing or disposing of the contingent right to any person
         that the court may direct.

 (3) Where the order is consequential on the appointment of a
trustee, the land or interest in the land is vested for such estate as the
court may direct in the persons who on the appointment are the
trustees.

 (4) Where the order relates to a trustee entitled or formerly entitled
jointly with another person, and the trustee is under disability or out
of the jurisdiction of the court or cannot be found, or being a
corporation has been dissolved, the land, interest or right is vested in
such other person who remains entitled, either alone or with any other
person, as the court may appoint.

Orders as to contingent rights of unborn persons

 46. Where any interest in land is subject to a contingent right in an
unborn person or class of unborn persons who, on coming into
existence would, in respect thereof, become entitled to or possessed
of that interest on any trust, the court may make an order —

       (a) releasing the land or interest in the land from the
            contingent right; or

       (b) vesting in any person the estate or interest to or of which
            the unborn person or class of unborn persons would, on
            coming into existence, be entitled or possessed in the land.

Vesting order in place of conveyance by infant mortgagee

 47. Where any person entitled to or possessed of any interest in
land, or entitled to a contingent right in land, by way of security for
money, is an infant, the court may make an order vesting or releasing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         58

or disposing of the interest in the land or the right in the like manner
as in the case of a trustee under disability.

Vesting order consequential on order for sale or mortgage of
land

 48.—(1) Where any court gives a judgment or makes an order
directing the sale or mortgage of any land, every person who is
entitled to or possessed of any interest in the land, or entitled to a
contingent right therein, and is a party to the action or proceeding in
which the judgment or order is given or made or is otherwise bound
by the judgment or order, is deemed to be so entitled or possessed (as
the case may be) as a trustee for the purposes of this Act.

 (2) The court may, if it thinks expedient, make an order vesting the
land or any part of the land, for such estate or interest as the court
thinks fit, in the purchaser or mortgagee or in any other person.

Vesting order consequential on judgment for specific
performance, etc.

 49.—(1) Where a judgment is given for the specific performance of
a contract concerning any interest in land, or for sale or exchange of
any interest in land, or generally where any judgment is given for the
conveyance of any interest in land either in cases arising out of the
doctrine of election or otherwise, the court may declare that —

       (a) any of the parties to the action are trustees of any interest in
            the land or any part thereof within the meaning of this Act;
            or

       (b) the interests of unborn persons who might claim under any
            party to the action, or under the will or voluntary settlement
            of any deceased person who was during his or her lifetime
            a party to the contract or transaction concerning which the
            judgment is given, are the interests of persons who, on
            coming into existence, would be trustees within the
            meaning of this Act.

 (2) Upon the judgment mentioned in subsection (1), the court may
make a vesting order relating to the rights of those persons, born and
unborn, as if they had been trustees.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
59                       Trustees Act 1967                    2020 Ed.

Effect of vesting order

50. A vesting order made under this Act has —

    (a) in the case of a vesting order consequential on the
         appointment of a trustee, the same effect —

    (i) as if the persons who before the appointment were
        the trustees (if any) had duly executed all proper
        conveyances of the land for such estate or interest as
        the court directs; or

    (ii) if there is no such person, or no such person of full
         capacity, as if such person had existed and been of
         full capacity and had duly executed all proper
         conveyances of the land for such estate or interest
         as the court directs; and

    (b) in every other case, the same effect as if the trustee,
         mortgagee or other person or description or class of
         persons to whose rights or supposed rights the relevant
         provisions respectively relate had been an ascertained and
         existing person of full capacity, and had executed a
         conveyance or release to the effect intended by the order.

Power to appoint person to convey

 51. In all cases where a vesting order can be made under this Act,
the court may, if it is more convenient, appoint a person to convey the
land or any interest in the land or release the contingent right, and a
conveyance or release by that person in conformity with the order has
the same effect as an order under the appropriate provision.

Vesting orders as to stock and thing in action

 52.—(1) In any of the following cases:

       (a) where the court appoints or has appointed a trustee, or
            where a trustee has been appointed out of court under any
            statutory or express power;

       (b) where a trustee entitled, whether by way of mortgage or
            otherwise, alone or jointly with another person, to stock or
            to a thing in action —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         60

          (i) is under disability;

          (ii) is out of the jurisdiction of the court;

          (iii) cannot be found, or, being a corporation, has been
                dissolved;

          (iv) neglects or refuses to transfer stock or receive the
               dividends or income of stock, or to sue for or recover
               a thing in action, according to the direction of the
               person absolutely entitled thereto for 28 days next
               after a written request has been made to the trustee by
               the person so entitled; or

          (v) neglects or refuses to transfer stock or receive the
               dividends or income of stock, or to sue for or recover
               a thing in action for 28 days next after an order of the
               court for that purpose has been served on the trustee;

          (c) where it is uncertain whether a trustee entitled alone or
              jointly with another person to stock or to a thing in action is
              alive or dead;

(d) where stock is standing in the name of a deceased person
     whose personal representative is under disability; or

          (e) where stock or a thing in action is vested in a trustee
              whether by way of mortgage or otherwise and it appears to
              the court to be expedient,

the court may make an order vesting the right to transfer or call for a
transfer of stock, or to receive the dividends or income of stock, or to
sue for or recover the thing in action, in any person that the court may
appoint.

 (2) Where the order is consequential on the appointment of a
trustee, the right is vested in the persons who, on the appointment, are
the trustees.

 (3) Where the person whose right is dealt with by the order was
entitled jointly with another person, the right is vested in that other
person either alone or jointly with any other person whom the court
may appoint.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
61  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (4) In all cases where a vesting order can be made under this
section, the court may, if it is more convenient, appoint some proper
person to make or join in making the transfer.

 (5) The person appointed under subsection (4) to make or join in
making a transfer of stock must be a proper officer of the company
whose stock is to be transferred.

 (6) The person in whom the right to transfer or call for the transfer
of any stock is vested by an order of the court under this Act, may
transfer the stock to himself, herself or itself or any other person,
according to the order, and all companies must obey every order
under this section according to its tenor.

 (7) After written notice of an order under this section it is not lawful
for any company to transfer any stock to which the order relates or to
pay any dividends on the stock except in accordance with the order.

 (8) The court may make declarations and give directions
concerning the manner in which the right to transfer any stock or
thing in action vested under the provisions of this Act is to be
exercised.

 (9) The provisions of this Act as to vesting orders apply to shares in
ships registered under any written law relating to merchant shipping
as if they were stock.

Vesting orders of charity or society property

 53. The powers conferred by this Act as to vesting orders may be
exercised for vesting any interest in land, stock or thing in action in
any trustee of a charity or society over which the court would have
jurisdiction upon action duly instituted, whether the appointment of
the trustee was made by instrument under a power or by the court
under its general or statutory jurisdiction.

Vesting orders in relation to infant’s beneficial interest

 54. Where an infant is beneficially entitled to any property, the
court may, with a view to the application of the capital or income of
the property for the maintenance, education or benefit of the infant,
make an order —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         62

(a) appointing a person to convey the property; or

(b) in the case of stock, or a thing in action, vesting in any
     person the right to transfer or call for a transfer of the stock,
     or to receive the dividends or income of the stock, or to sue
     for and recover such thing in action, upon terms that the
     court thinks fit.

Orders made upon certain allegations to be conclusive evidence

 55.—(1) Where a vesting order is made as to any land under this
Act founded on an allegation of any of the following matters:

       (a) the personal incapacity of a trustee or mortgagee;

       (b) that a trustee or mortgagee or the personal representative of
            or other person deriving title under a trustee or mortgagee
            is out of the jurisdiction of the court, or cannot be found, or
            being a corporation has been dissolved;

       (c) that it is uncertain which of 2 or more trustees, or which of
            2 or more persons interested in a mortgage, was the
            survivor;

       (d) that it is uncertain whether the last trustee or the personal
            representative of or other person deriving title under a
            trustee or mortgagee, or the last surviving person interested
            in a mortgage is living or dead; or

       (e) that any trustee or mortgagee has died intestate without
            leaving a person beneficially interested under the intestacy
            or has died and it is not known who is his or her personal
            representative or the person interested,

the fact that the order has been so made is conclusive evidence of the
matter so alleged in any court upon any question as to the validity of
the order.

 (2) Nothing in this section prevents the court from directing a
reconveyance or surrender or the payment of costs occasioned by any
such order if improperly obtained.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
63  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    Jurisdiction to make other order

Power of court to authorise dealings with trust property

 56.—(1) Where in the management or administration of any
property vested in trustees, any sale, lease, mortgage, surrender,
release, or other disposition, or any purchase, investment, acquisition,
expenditure, or other transaction, is in the opinion of the court
expedient, but the same cannot be effected by reason of the absence of
any power for that purpose vested in the trustees by the trust
instrument (if any) or by law, the court may —

    (a) by order confer upon the trustees, either generally or in any
         particular instance, the necessary power for the purpose, on
         any terms, and subject to any provisions and conditions
         that the court thinks fit; and

    (b) direct in what manner any money authorised to be
         expended and the costs of any transaction are to be paid
         or borne as between capital and income.

 (2) The court may, from time to time, rescind or vary any order
made under this section, or may make any new or further order.

 (3) An application to the court under this section may be made by
the trustees, or by any of them or by any person beneficially interested
under the trust.

Persons entitled to apply for orders

 57.—(1) An order under this Act for the appointment of a new
trustee or concerning any interest in land, stock or thing in action
subject to a trust, may be made on the application of any person
beneficially interested in the land, stock or thing in action, whether
under disability or not, or on the application of any person duly
appointed trustee of the trust.

 (2) An order under this Act concerning any interest in land, stock or
thing in action subject to a mortgage may be made on the application
of any person beneficially interested in the equity of redemption,
whether under disability or not, or of any person interested in the
money secured by the mortgage.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         64

Power to give judgment in absence of trustee

 58. Where in any action the court is satisfied that diligent search has
been made for any person who, in the character of trustee, is made a
defendant in any action, to serve the person with a process of the
court, and that the person cannot be found, the court may hear and
determine the action and give judgment against that person in that
person’s character of a trustee as if that person had been duly served,
or had filed and served a notice of intention to contest or not contest in
the action, and had also appeared by that person’s solicitor at the
hearing, but without prejudice to any interest that person may have in
the matters in question in the action in any other character.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Power to charge costs on trust estate

 59. The court may order the costs and expenses of and incident to
any application for an order appointing a new trustee, or for a vesting
order, or of and incident to any such order, or any conveyance or
transfer pursuant to the order —

       (a) to be raised and paid out of the property in respect of which
            the order is made, or out of the income of the property; or

       (b) to be borne and paid in such manner and by such persons as
            seem just to the court.

Power to relieve trustee from personal liability

 60. If it appears to the court that a trustee, whether appointed by the
court or otherwise, is or may be personally liable for any breach of
trust, whether the transaction alleged to be a breach of trust occurred
before, on or after 1 September 1929, but has acted honestly and
reasonably, and ought fairly to be excused for the breach of trust and
for omitting to obtain the directions of the court in the matter in which
the trustee committed the breach, then the court may relieve the
trustee either wholly or partly from personal liability for the same.

Power to make beneficiary indemnify for breach of trust

 61.—(1) Where a trustee commits a breach of trust at the instigation
or request or with the written consent of a beneficiary, the court may,
even though the beneficiary may be a married woman restrained from

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
65  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

anticipation, make any order that seems just to the court, for
impounding all or any part of the interest of the beneficiary in the trust
estate by way of indemnity to the trustee or persons claiming through
the trustee.

 (2) This section applies to breaches of trust committed before, on or
after 1 September 1929.

                             Payment into court

Payment into court by trustees

 62.—(1) Trustees, or the majority of trustees, having in their hands
or under their control money or securities belonging to a trust, may
pay the same into court; and the same is, subject to Rules of Court, to
be dealt with according to the orders of the court.

 (2) The receipt or certificate of the proper officer is a sufficient
discharge to trustees for the money or securities so paid into court.

 (3) Where money or securities are vested in any persons as trustees,
and the majority are desirous of paying the same into court, but the
concurrence of the other or others cannot be obtained, the court may
order the payment into court to be made by the majority without the
concurrence of the other or others.

 (4) Where any such money or securities are deposited with any
banker, broker, or other depositary, the court may order payment or
delivery of the money or securities to the majority of the trustees for
the purpose of payment into court.

 (5) Every transfer, payment and delivery made pursuant to any such
order is valid and takes effect as if the same had been made on the
authority or by the act of all the persons entitled to the money and
securities so transferred, paid or delivered.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         66

          PART 6

          CHARITABLE TRUSTS

Public Trustee may administer property of charitable trust
without trustee

 63.—(1) Whenever it appears to the Public Trustee that a charitable
trust has no trustee, the Public Trustee may send by registered post a
letter to the person in apparent control of any property subject to the
trust requesting the names and addresses of the trustees (if any) of the
trust.

 (2) If the Public Trustee does not receive any answer to the letter
within one month of sending it, the Public Trustee may publish in the
Gazette and send to the person mentioned in subsection (1), by
registered post, a notice that at the end of one month from the date of
that notice, unless cause is shown to the contrary, the trust is deemed
to have no trustee.

 (3) At the end of the time mentioned in the notice, unless cause to
the contrary is previously shown by any trustee of the trust, or if the
Public Trustee receives an answer to the effect that the trust has no
trustee, the Public Trustee —

(a) may declare that he or she undertakes to administer the
     property subject to the trust provisionally; and

(b) must publish notice thereof in the Gazette, and on the
     publication in the Gazette of the notice all property,
     movable and immovable of any description, subject to the
     trust vests in the Public Trustee as provisional trustee of the
     trust.

 (4) The Public Trustee as such provisional trustee may apply to the
court by originating application for the appointment of new trustees
to administer the trust and on the appointment of the new trustees all
property subject to the trust vests in them.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (5) All costs and expenses incurred by the Public Trustee in
exercising the powers conferred by this section must be paid out of
the assets of the trusts concerned.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
67  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

Validation of certain imperfect charitable trusts

 64.—(1) No trust is invalid by reason that some non-charitable and
invalid purpose as well as some charitable purpose is or could be
deemed to be included in any of the purposes to or for which an
application of the trust funds or any part of the trust funds is by such
trust directed or allowed.

 (2) Any such trust is to be construed and given effect to in the same
manner in all respects as if no application of the trust funds or any part
of the trust funds to or for any such non‑charitable and invalid
purpose had been or could be deemed to have been so directed or
allowed.

 (3) This section does not apply to any trust declared before, or to the
will of any testator dying before, 14 July 1967.

                          Incorporation of trustees

Grant of certificate of incorporation of trustees

 65.—(1) Trustees, not less than 3 in number, may be appointed by
any body or association of persons established for any religious,
educational, literary, scientific, social or charitable purpose, and such
trustees may apply, in the manner provided in section 67, to the
Minister for a certificate of registration of the trustees of that body or
association of persons as a body corporate (called in this Part a
certificate of incorporation).

 (2) If the Minister, having regard to the extent, nature and objects
and other circumstances of the body or association of persons,
considers such incorporation expedient, he or she may grant the
certificate of incorporation, subject to such conditions or directions
generally as the Minister thinks fit to insert in the certificate, and
particularly relating to the qualifications and number of the trustees,
their tenure and avoidance of office, the mode of appointing new
trustees, the custody and use of the common seal, the amount of the
land which the trustees may hold, and the purposes for which the land
may be applied.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         68

(3) Upon the grant of the certificate of incorporation, the trustees —

(a) become a body corporate by the name described in the
     certificate;

(b) have perpetual succession and a common seal;

          (c) have power to sue and be sued in the corporate name; and

(d) subject to the conditions and directions contained in the
     certificate, have power to acquire, purchase, take, hold and
     enjoy movable and immovable property, and by
     instruments under the common seal to sell, convey,
     assign, surrender and yield up, mortgage, charge,
     demise, re‑assign, transfer or otherwise dispose of
     movable and immovable property now or in future
     belonging to, or held for the benefit of, the body or
     association of persons, in such and the like manner, and
     subject to such restrictions and provisions, as the trustees
     might do, without such incorporation, for the purposes of
     the body or association of persons.

Estate to vest in body corporate

 66.—(1) The certificate of incorporation vests in such body
corporate all property, movable or immovable of any description,
belonging to or held by any person in trust for the body or association
of persons, and thereupon any person in whose name any stocks,
funds or securities are standing in trust for the body or association of
persons, must transfer the same into the name of the body corporate.

 (2) All covenants and conditions relating to any such immovable
property enforceable by or against the trustees before their
incorporation are enforceable to the same extent and by the same
means by or against them after their incorporation.

Particulars respecting application

 67.—(1) Every application to the Minister for a certificate under
this Part must be in writing, signed by the person or persons making
the same, and must contain the particulars specified in the
Second Schedule, or such of them as are applicable to the case.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
69  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister may require a statutory declaration or other
evidence in verification of the statements and particulars in the
application, and any other particulars, information and evidence that
the Minister thinks necessary or proper.

Nomination of trustees and filling up vacancies

 68.—(1) Before a certificate of incorporation may be granted, the
trustees must have been effectually appointed to the satisfaction of
the Minister.

 (2) Where a certificate of incorporation is granted, vacancies in the
number of the trustees must, from time to time, be filled up so far as is
required by the constitution or settlement of the body or association of
persons, or by any conditions or directions mentioned in
section 65(2), by such legal means as would have been available
for the appointment of new trustees of the body or association of
persons if no certificate of incorporation had been granted, or
otherwise as required by those conditions or directions.

 (3) The appointment of every new trustee must be certified by, or by
the direction of, the trustees to the Public Trustee upon the completion
of the appointment.

 (4) Within one month after the expiry of each period of 5 years after
the grant of a certificate of incorporation, or whenever required by the
Public Trustee, a return must be made to the Public Trustee by the
then trustees of the names of the trustees at the expiry of each such
period, with their residences and descriptions.

Liability of trustees and others, despite incorporation

 69.—(1) After a certificate of incorporation has been granted under
the provisions of this Part, all trustees of the body or association of
persons, despite their incorporation, are —

       (a) chargeable for any property that comes into their hands;
            and

       (b) answerable and accountable for their own acts, receipts,
            neglects and defaults, and for the due administration of the
            body or association of persons and its property, in the same

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         70

          manner and to the same extent as if the incorporation had
          not been effected.

 (2) Nothing in this section diminishes or impairs any control or
authority exercisable by the Attorney‑General or other public officer
under any written law for the time being in force over the trustees who
are so incorporated but they remain subject jointly and separately to
such control and authority as if they were not incorporated.

Certificate to be evidence of compliance with requirements

 70.—(1) A certificate of incorporation so granted is conclusive
evidence that all the preliminary requirements contained in this Part
and in respect of the incorporation have been complied with.

 (2) The date of incorporation mentioned in the certificate is deemed
to be the date at which incorporation has taken place.

Record of applications and documents to be kept, and supply of
copies

 71.—(1) The Public Trustee must keep a record of all applications
for and certificates of incorporation granted and all documents,
accounts and returns required by the provisions of this Part to be filed
with the Public Trustee.

 (2) Any person may obtain a copy or extract of any such document
certified by the Public Trustee on payment of the prescribed fee.

Enforcement of conditions and directions

 72. All conditions and directions inserted in any certificate of
incorporation are —

       (a) binding upon and performed or observed by the trustees as
            trusts of the body or association of persons; and

       (b) enforceable by the Attorney-General or other public officer
            or persons interested under any written law for the time
            being in force.

 73. [Repealed by Act 38 of 2002]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
71  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

Gifts to vest in body corporate

 74. After the incorporation of the trustees of any body or
association of persons under this Part, every donation, gift and
disposition of land, or any interest in land, lawfully made (but not
having actually taken effect) before the incorporation or hereafter
lawfully made by deed, will or otherwise to or in favour of the body or
association of persons, or the trustees, or otherwise for the purposes
thereof, takes effect as if the same had been made to, or in favour of,
the incorporated body or otherwise for the like purposes.

Common seal

 75.—(1) The common seal of the body corporate has such device as
the Minister may approve.

 (2) Any instrument to which the common seal of the body corporate
has been affixed, in apparent compliance with the conditions or
directions for the use of the common seal referred to in section 65, is
binding on the body corporate, despite any defect or circumstance
affecting the execution of the instrument.

Contracts not under seal to be binding in certain cases

 76. Every contract made or entered into by the trustees of a body or
association of persons which would be valid and binding according to
the constitution, settlement or rules and regulations of that body or
association of persons if no incorporation under this Part had taken
place, is valid and binding although it has not been made or entered
into under the common seal of the trustees.

Payments on transfers in reliance on corporate seal protected

 77. Any person who makes or permits to be made any transfer or
payment bona fide, in reliance on any instrument to which the
common seal of any body corporate created under this Part is affixed,
is to be indemnified and protected in respect of the transfer or
payment, despite any defect or circumstance affecting the execution
of the instrument.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         72

Trustees to keep accounts and to render annual returns of
accounts

 78.—(1) The trustees of any body or association of persons
incorporated under this Part must regularly enter or cause to be
entered, in books to be kept by them for that purpose, full and true
accounts of all moneys received and paid respectively on account of
the body or association of persons.

 (2) The trustees mentioned in subsection (1) must, on or before
25 March in every year, or upon any other day appointed by the
Public Trustee, prepare and make out the following accounts in
relation to the body or association of persons mentioned in
subsection (1):

(a) an account of the gross income arising from any
     endowment or which ought to have arisen from any
     endowment during the year ending on 31 December
     immediately preceding, or upon any other day appointed
     for this purpose by the Public Trustee;

(b) an account of all balances in hand at the commencement of
     the year and of all moneys received during the same year
     on account of the body or association of persons;

          (c) an account for the same period of all payments; and

(d) an account of all moneys owing to or from the body or
     association of persons, so far as is convenient.

 (3) The accounts prescribed under subsection (2) must be certified
under the hand of all the trustees mentioned in subsection (1) who are
in Singapore and must be audited by the auditor of the body or
association of persons, if any.

 (4) The trustees mentioned in subsection (1) must, within 14 days
after the day appointed for making out the accounts referred to in
subsection (2), file a copy of the accounts with the Public Trustee and
every such copy is open to inspection of all persons at all reasonable
hours upon payment of the prescribed fee.

 (5) Any person may require a copy of every such account, or of any
part of the account, on paying the prescribed fee.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
73  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (6) The trustees mentioned in subsection (1) must, at the same time
as the accounts prescribed under subsection (2) are filed with the
Public Trustee in accordance with subsection (4) for the first time
after the grant of a certificate of incorporation under this Part, file
with the Public Trustee an account of any endowments then
belonging to the body or association of persons, showing —

    (a) in the case of immovable property not in hand the manner
         in which the same is let or occupied; and

    (b) in the case of movable property the existing investment or
         employment of the property and in what names the
         investments are made.

 (7) Subsequently, the trustees or trustee must, on every occasion
upon which the accounts are filed as mentioned in subsection (6) with
the Public Trustee after the acquisition of any endowment not
included in the accounts, or after the alienation, charge or transfer of
any movable or immovable property of the body or association of
persons, file with the Public Trustee a similar account of the
endowment or an account of the alienation, charge or transfer, as the
case may be.

Application to decide question whether person is a member of a
body corporate

 79.—(1) When any question arises as to whether any person is a
member of such body corporate, any person interested in the question
may apply by originating application to the court for its opinion on
the question.

                                                                                                           [42/2005]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) Notice of the hearing must be given to such persons and in such
manner as the court thinks fit.

 (3) Any opinion given by the court on an application under this
section is binding —

       (a) on the person in respect of whom the question arose;

       (b) upon all members of the body corporate mentioned in
            subsection (1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         74

          (c) upon that person interested in the question; and

(d) upon any persons to whom notice of the hearing has been
     given in accordance with any direction of the court.

Dissolution of body corporate

 80.—(1) Where the administration of a charitable trust has been
taken over by the Government or a statutory corporation, or for any
other sufficient cause it is expedient to dissolve a body corporate
created under this Part, the Minister may, by order, direct the Public
Trustee to strike the name of the body corporate off the register.

 (2) The Public Trustee must publish the order in the Gazette and on
publication of the order, the body corporate is dissolved.

Penalty for false statement

 81. If any person in any return, account or other documents required
by any of the provisions of this Part to be filed with the Public Trustee
wilfully makes a statement which is false in any material particular,
knowing it to be false, the person shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Penalty for not filing returns, etc.

 82. If any trustee fails to comply or to take all reasonable steps to
secure compliance with any of the provisions of this Part which
requires the lodging or filing with the Public Trustee of any return,
account or other documents or the giving of notice to the Public
Trustee of any matter, the trustee shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $500 and, in the
case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $50 for
every day during which the offence continues after conviction.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
75                      Trustees Act 1967                     2020 Ed.

                             PART 7

    TRANSPARENCY AND
    EFFECTIVE CONTROL

    Division 1 — Preliminary

Interpretation of this Part

83.—(1) In this Part —

    “authorised officer” means an authorised officer appointed
       under section 84B(1);

                                                                           [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Trust
       Enforcement appointed under section 84A(1);

                                                                           [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    “effective controller”, in relation to a relevant trust party of a
       relevant trust, means —

    (a) the individual who ultimately owns or controls the
         relevant trust party; or

    (b) the individual on whose behalf a transaction is being
         conducted by the relevant trust party in the relevant
         trust party’s capacity as such,

    and includes an individual who exercises ultimate effective
    control over the relevant trust party;

    “FATF” means the intergovernmental body known as the
       Financial Action Task Force;

    “FATF Recommendations” means the recommendations issued
       by the FATF from time to time relating to the prevention of
       money laundering, terrorism financing and financing of
       proliferation of weapons of mass destruction;

                                                                           [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    “financial institution” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
       Financial Services and Markets Act 2022;

                                           [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.                  Trustees Act 1967                         76

“Global Forum” means the international body known as the
   Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information
   for Tax Purposes;

“protector”, in relation to a trust, means a person who, under the
   instrument creating the express trust, has any control over
   how a trustee of the trust administers the trust;

“public officer” includes any officer of a statutory board;

                                                                       [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

“relevant trust” means a trust to which this Part applies;

“relevant trust party”, in relation to a trust, means all or any of
   the following:

          (a) a settlor;

          (b) a trustee;

          (c) a protector;

          (d) a beneficiary;

          (e) if any person benefitting from the trust has not been
              determined — a class of possible beneficiaries under
              the trust;

                                                                     [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

          (f) a person who —

          (i) is a member of a class of possible beneficiaries
              under the trust; and

          (ii) is reasonably expected to benefit from the trust,
               whether or not because —

          (A) the person is referred to as a potential
               beneficiary by the settlor of the trust in a
               document relating to the trust such as a
               letter of wishes; or

          (B) the class of possible beneficiaries has
               narrowed for any reason;

                                                 [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
77  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (g) a person who has any power (whether alone, jointly
         with any other person or with the consent of any other
         person) to —

    (i) dispose of, advance, lend, invest (other than in
        the capacity of an investment adviser or
        manager) any property that is subject to the
        trust;

    (ii) distribute, or approve or direct the distribution
         of, any property that is subject to the trust to a
         beneficiary;

    (iii) vary or terminate the trust;

    (iv) add or remove a person as a beneficiary or a
         member of a class of possible beneficiaries;

    (v) appoint or remove a trustee; or

                    (vi) direct, withhold consent to or veto the exercise
                          of a power mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i), (ii),
                          (iii), (iv) or (v).

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

                                                                                                           [14/2017]

 (2) For the purposes of the definition of “effective controller”,
subject to regulations made under section 84Q, the references to
“ultimately owns or controls” and “ultimate effective control” refer to
situations in which an individual ultimately owns or controls, or
exercises ultimate effective control, over a relevant trust party,
including where the individual’s ownership or control (as the case
may be) of the relevant trust party is exercised through a chain of
ownership or by means of indirect control.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

                                                                                                           [14/2017]

 (3) A reference to this Part includes a reference to any regulations
made under section 84Q.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.                  Trustees Act 1967                         78

Application of this Part

84.—(1) This Part applies to any express trust —

(a) that is governed by the law of Singapore;

(b) that is administered in Singapore; or

       (c) in respect of which any of the trustees is resident in
            Singapore.

                                                                                                           [14/2017]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), this Part does not apply to any trust or
class of trusts as may be prescribed under section 84Q.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

                                                                                                           [14/2017]

 (3) For the purposes of this section —

(a) a trust is administered in Singapore if the control and
     management of the trust is exercised in Singapore; and

(b) a trustee is resident in Singapore if —

          (i) the trustee, being an individual, is ordinarily resident
              in Singapore; or

          (ii) the trustee is incorporated, formed or established in
               Singapore.

                                                                                                 [14/2017]

Appointment of Commissioner of Trust Enforcement

 84A.—(1) The Minister may, for the purposes of this Part, appoint a
public officer to be the Commissioner of Trust Enforcement.

 (2) The Commissioner may exercise all the powers and perform the
duties and functions of the Commissioner under this Part, subject to
any general or special directions of the Minister.

 (3) An appointment under subsection (1) must be published in the
Gazette.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Appointment of authorised officers

 84B.—(1) The Commissioner may appoint any of the following
persons to be an authorised officer for the purposes of this Part:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
79  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) a public officer;

    (b) an auxiliary police officer appointed under Part 9 of the
         Police Force Act 2004;

    (c) a public accountant registered or deemed to be registered
        under the Accountants Act 2004;

    (d) any individual suitably qualified and trained to be an
         authorised officer.

 (2) The Commissioner may delegate the exercise of any powers
conferred or duties imposed on the Commissioner under this Part to
an authorised officer, subject to any condition or limitation that the
Commissioner may specify.

(3) Subsection (2) does not apply to the following:

    (a) the power of appointment under subsection (1);

    (b) the power of delegation under subsection (2).

 (4) An authorised officer is taken to be a public servant for the
purposes of the Penal Code 1871 when exercising any power
conferred or performing any duty delegated to the authorised officer
by the Commissioner.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

              Division 2 — Investigation and enforcement

                         Subdivision (1) — General

Purpose of powers

 84C. The Commissioner may exercise all or any of the powers in
this Division to investigate any offence under this Part.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Protection from liability for compliance with requirements

 84D. No liability is incurred by a person or an officer, employee or
agent of the person for doing or omitting to do any act, if the act is
done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good faith and
for the purpose of complying with a requirement imposed under this
Division.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         80

          Subdivision (2) — Examination of persons

Requirement to appear for examination

 84E.—(1) The Commissioner may, by written notice, require any
person within the limits of Singapore, who appears to be acquainted
with the facts or circumstances of the matter, to attend before the
Commissioner for examination and to answer questions.

 (2) If any person fails to comply with a written notice issued to the
person under subsection (1), the Commissioner may report the failure
to a Magistrate, who may then issue a warrant ordering that person to
comply with the written notice.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Power to examine person

 84F.—(1) The Commissioner may examine orally any person who
appears to be acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the
matter —

       (a) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
            charged with an offence in connection with the matter; and

       (b) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness in any
            inquiry, trial or other proceedings in connection with the
            matter.

 (2) Any person examined under this section is bound to state truly
what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the matter,
except that the person need not say anything that might expose the
person to a criminal charge, penalty or forfeiture.

 (3) A statement made by the person must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the person;

       (c) if the person does not understand English — be interpreted
            in a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary) — be signed by the person.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
81  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    Subdivision (3) — Powers to obtain information

Power to require production of information, etc.

 84G.—(1) This section applies if the Commissioner reasonably
believes that a person has any information or any document or
material in the person’s possession, custody or control that is relevant
for the purpose of investigating any offence under this Part.

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Commissioner may do
any one or more of the following:

    (a) require the person to, without charge, produce the
         information, document or material, in the form and
         manner and at the time, specified by the Commissioner;

    (b) require the person to, without charge, give the
         Commissioner access to the information, document or
         material, in the form and manner and at the time, specified
         by the Commissioner;

    (c) inspect and make copies of, or take extracts from, any
        document or material mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b);

    (d) if the information, document or material is recorded in an
         electronic form, or contained in or available to a computer
         or other equipment — require the person to —

    (i) provide assistance in gaining access to any computer
        or other equipment in which the information,
        document or material is stored; and

    (ii) provide the information, document or material, or a
         copy of the information, document or material in the
         form or format specified by the Commissioner.

 (3) Subsection (4) applies if the power in subsection (2) relates
to —

    (a) the production of customer information by a financial
         institution; or

    (b) access to customer information kept by a financial
         institution.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         82

(4) Despite section 84B(2), the power in subsection (2) —

(a) may only be exercised by the Commissioner personally or
     an authorised officer who is a public officer; and

(b) must not be exercised by an authorised officer who is not a
     public officer.

(5) In this section, “customer information” —

(a) in relation to a bank or merchant bank — has the meaning
     given by section 40A of the Banking Act 1970; and a
     reference in that section to a bank is a reference to a bank or
     merchant bank;

(b) in relation to a licensed trust company — means
     information protected under section 49 of the Trust
     Companies Act 2005; and

          (c) in relation to any other financial institution — means any
              information relating to, or any particulars of, an account of
              a customer of the financial institution or funds of a
              customer under management by the financial institution,
              but does not include any information that is not referable to
              any named person or group of named persons.

                                                                              [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Issuance of warrant to enter premises, etc.

 84H.—(1) A court may, on the application of the Commissioner,
issue a warrant, if the court is satisfied that —

       (a) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that there are,
            on any premises —

               (i) any information, document or material the
                   production of which has been required under
                   section 84G but which has not been produced as
                   required; or

              (ii) any computer or other equipment in which is stored
                   in electronic form any information, document or
                   material mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i); or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
83  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (b) there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that —

    (i) there are, on any premises —

    (A) any information, document or material which
         the Commissioner has power under
         section 84G to require to be produced; or

    (B) any computer or other equipment in which is
         stored in electronic form any information,
         document or material mentioned in
         sub‑paragraph (A); and

    (ii) if the information, document or material were
         required to be produced, they would not be
         produced but would be concealed, removed,
         tampered with or destroyed.

 (2) A warrant issued under subsection (1) authorises the
Commissioner, and any other persons that the Commissioner may
require to assist him or her, to do all or any of the following:

    (a) to enter the premises specified in the warrant, using such
         force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose;

    (b) to search any person on the premises, if there are
         reasonable grounds to suspect that the person has in his
         or her possession the information, document, material,
         computer or equipment;

    (c) to search the premises and to break open and search
        anything, whether a fixture or not, in the premises and take
        copies of, or extracts from, the information, document or
        material;

    (d) to access, inspect and check the operation of a computer or
         other equipment on the premises specified in the warrant, if
         there are reasonable grounds to suspect that —

    (i) any information, document or material mentioned in
        subsection (1)(a)(i) or (b)(i)(A) is or has been
        contained in or available to the computer or
        equipment; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         84

          (ii) the computer or equipment is a computer or
               equipment mentioned in subsection (1)(a)(ii) or
               (b)(i)(B);

          (e) to use the computer or equipment mentioned in
              paragraph (d), or cause any such computer or equipment
              to be used —

          (i) to search any information, document or material that
              appears to be any information, document or material
              mentioned in subsection (1)(a)(i) or (b)(i)(A), that is
              contained in or available to such computer or
              equipment; and

          (ii) to make a copy of any such information, document or
               material;

          (f) to prevent any other person from gaining access to, or
              using, any computer or other equipment mentioned in
              paragraph (d) (including by changing any username,
              password or other authentication information required to
              gain access to the computer or equipment);

(g) to order any person —

          (i) to stop accessing or using or to not access or use any
              computer or other equipment mentioned in
              paragraph (d); or

          (ii) to access or use any such computer or other
               equipment only under such conditions as the
               Commissioner or any person assisting the
               Commissioner may specify;

(h) to require any person on the premises to provide an
     explanation of the information, document or material or to
     state, to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief,
     where it may be found;

          (i) to require the information, document or material which is
              stored in electronic form and accessible from the premises
              to be produced in a form which —

          (i) can be taken away; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
85              Trustees Act 1967                             2020 Ed.

    (ii) is visible and legible;

    (j) to photograph or film, or make any record or sketch of, any
        part of the premises, or any thing at the place.

(3) A warrant issued under subsection (1) —

    (a) must —

    (i) indicate the subject matter and state the offence
        being investigated; and

    (ii) provide information on the nature of an offence
         under section 84L, and the nature of an offence under
         section 84M; and

    (b) continues in force until the end of the period of one month
         starting on the day on which the warrant is issued.

 (4) In this section, “court” means the General Division of the High
Court, a District Court or a Magistrate’s Court.

 (5) In this section and section 84I, “premises” includes any
structure, building, aircraft, vehicle or vessel.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Procedure for execution of warrant

 84I.—(1) The powers conferred under a warrant issued under
section 84H(1) in relation to any premises must not be exercised
except upon production of the warrant.

 (2) If a warrant is issued under section 84H(1) and there is no one at
the premises when the Commissioner proposes to execute the
warrant, the Commissioner must, before executing the warrant —

       (a) take such steps as are reasonable in all the circumstances to
            inform the occupier of the premises of the intended entry
            into the premises; and

       (b) subject to subsection (3), give the occupier or the
            occupier’s legal or other representative a reasonable
            opportunity to be present when the warrant is executed.

 (3) If the Commissioner is unable to inform the occupier of the
premises of the intended entry into the premises, the Commissioner

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         86

must, when executing the warrant, leave a copy of the warrant in a
prominent place on the premises.

 (4) Any person entering any premises by virtue of the warrant may
take with him or her any item that the person considers necessary.

 (5) A woman may be searched pursuant to the warrant only by
another woman and with strict regard to decency.

 (6) On leaving any premises specified in a warrant issued under
section 84H(1), the Commissioner must, if the premises are
unoccupied or if the occupier of the premises is temporarily absent,
leave the premises as effectively secured as the Commissioner found
the premises.

 (7) In this section, “occupier”, in relation to any premises specified
in a warrant issued under section 84H(1), means a person whom the
Commissioner reasonably believes to be the occupier of those
premises.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Power to seize property, etc., in certain circumstances

 84J.—(1) The Commissioner may seize any property —

       (a) in respect of which a contravention of this Part is suspected
            to have been committed;

       (b) that is suspected to have been used or intended to be used
            in a contravention of this Part; or

       (c) that is suspected to constitute evidence of a contravention
            of this Part.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any property held or suspected
to be held in an account or a safe deposit box in a financial institution.

 (3) The occupier or person in charge of a place from which property
is to be seized under subsection (1), or a representative of the occupier
or person in charge, may attend during the seizure.

 (4) The Commissioner must prepare and sign a list of any property
seized under subsection (1), recording the location from which each
item of property is seized.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
87  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (5) A signed copy of the list must be given to the occupier or person
in charge of the place from which property was seized, or a
representative of the occupier or person in charge.

 (6) Instead of seizing any property under subsection (1), the
Commissioner may, by written order —

    (a) prohibit any person from dealing with the property; and

    (b) require any person to affix the order or a copy of the order
         on or near the property.

                                                                        [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Power of court over seized property, etc.

 84K. Sections 370, 371 and 372 of the Criminal Procedure Code
2010 are to apply, with the necessary modifications, when the
Commissioner seizes property or prohibits any dealing with property
under section 84J.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

                      Division 3 — General offences

Producing false information to Commissioner, etc.

 84L. A person required to produce or give access to any
information, document or material to the Commissioner or an
authorised officer under Division 2, who —

       (a) produces or give access to the Commissioner or authorised
            officer to any information, document or material that the
            person knows or has reason to believe is materially false or
            misleading;

       (b) omits to provide or give access to any information to the
            Commissioner or authorised officer for the purposes of this
            Act, knowing or having reason to believe that the omission
            will create a materially false or misleading impression;

       (c) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            information, document or material that the person has
            been required to produce or give access to; or

       (d) in producing or giving access to any information,
            document or material so required, makes any statement

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         88

          which the person knows or ought reasonably to know is, or
          is reckless as to whether it is, false or misleading in a
          material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Obstruction of investigation, etc.

 84M.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse —

       (a) refuses or fails to produce or give access to any
            information, document or material required of the person
            by the Commissioner or an authorised officer under
            section 84G;

       (b) fails to comply with any written notice issued to the person
            under section 84E(1);

       (c) knowingly obstructs or hinders, or attempts to obstruct or
            hinder —

               (i) a person from complying with anything required of
                   the person by the Commissioner or an authorised
                   officer under this Part;

              (ii) the Commissioner or an authorised officer from
                   exercising any of the Commissioner’s or authorised
                   officer’s powers under this Part; or

             (iii) the Commissioner or an authorised officer, or any
                   other persons assisting the Commissioner or
                   authorised officer, in executing a warrant issued
                   under section 84H(1); or

       (d) disposes of or deals with any property contrary to the
            Commissioner’s or an authorised officer’s order under
            section 84J(6),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $25,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2
years or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
89  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (2) It is not a defence to a charge under subsection (1) that the
person is subject to a fiduciary duty or any other duty under common
law, any contract or any rule of professional conduct, that prevents the
person from complying with a requirement under Division 2 or
restricts the person in such compliance.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

                        Division 4 — Miscellaneous

Protection from personal liability for Commissioner, etc.

 84N. No liability shall lie personally against the Commissioner or
an authorised officer who, acting in good faith and with reasonable
care, does or omits to do anything in the execution or purported
execution of this Part.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Codes of practice, guidelines and standards of performance

 84O.—(1) The Commissioner may issue, approve, amend or
revoke one or more codes of practice, guidelines or standards of
performance for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to provide guidance to trustees of relevant trusts in relation
            to the operation or administration of any provision of this
            Part;

       (b) to set out best practices —

               (i) for trustees of relevant trusts with respect to
                   measures for the prevention of money laundering,
                   terrorism financing and financing of proliferation of
                   weapons of mass destruction; and

              (ii) for giving effect to the relevant FATF
                   Recommendations.

 (2) If any provision in any code of practice, guideline or standard of
performance is inconsistent with this Part, that provision, to the extent
of the inconsistency, does not have effect.

 (3) Where a code of practice, guideline or standard of performance
is issued, approved, amended or revoked by the Commissioner under
subsection (1), the Commissioner must —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         90

(a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation (as the case may be) in a manner that will secure
     adequate publicity for the issue, approval, amendment or
     revocation;

(b) specify in the notice the date of the issue, approval,
     amendment or revocation, as the case may be; and

          (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice, guideline or
              standard of performance remains in force, copies of that
              code, guideline or standard, and of all amendments to it,
              are available free of charge to any trustee of a relevant trust
              to whom that code, guideline or standard applies.

 (4) No code of practice, guideline or standard of performance, or
amendment or revocation, has any effect until the notice relating to it
is published in accordance with subsection (3).

 (5) Any code of practice, guideline or standard of performance has
no legislative effect.

 (6) Any failure by a trustee of a relevant trust to comply with any
code of practice, guideline or standard of performance applicable to
the trustee does not of itself render the trustee liable to criminal
proceedings, but the failure may, in any proceedings (criminal or
otherwise), be relied on by any party to those proceedings as tending
to establish or negate any liability which is in question in those
proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Composition of offences under this Part

 84P.—(1) The Commissioner may compound any offence under
this Part that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding one half of the amount of the maximum fine for
the offence.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
91           Trustees Act 1967                                2020 Ed.

Regulations

 84Q.—(1) The Minister may make regulations that the Minister
considers necessary or desirable for or in respect of any relevant
trust —

    (a) to give effect to the FATF Recommendations concerning
         transparency and beneficial ownership; and

      (b) to give effect to the Global Forum requirements
           concerning information on ownership and identity, the
           keeping of accounting records, and access to such
           information and records.

                                                                                                         [14/2017]

(2) Without limiting subsection (1), such regulations may —

    (a) provide that a trustee of a relevant trust must obtain
         information on the identity and particulars of each person
         who is —

    (i) a relevant trust party of the relevant trust or an
        effective controller of the relevant trust party; and

    (ii) an agent of, or a service provider to, the trust,
         including any investment adviser or manager,
         accountant or tax adviser;

    (b) provide that a trustee of a relevant trust must maintain and
         keep up‑to‑date, for such period as may be prescribed, a
         record of the identities and particulars of the persons
         mentioned in paragraph (a)(i) and (ii);

    (ba) provide that a trustee of a relevant trust must —

    (i) retain any document relating to the trust, as may be
        prescribed; and

          (ii) keep and maintain up‑to‑date records of any
               information relating to the administration of the
               trust or other relevant information relating to the
               trust, as may be prescribed;

                                                                        [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

    (c) provide that a trustee of a relevant trust must maintain and
        keep up‑to‑date, for such period as may be prescribed, such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         92

          accounting records relating to the relevant trust, and such
          information on the assets of the relevant trust, as may be
          prescribed;

(d) prescribe the measures that must be taken by a trustee of a
     relevant trust for or in respect of all or any of the matters in
     paragraphs (a), (b), (ba) and (c);

                                                                    [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

(e) provide that a trustee of a relevant trust must, when acting
     for the trust in any prescribed transaction, disclose to any
     other party to the transaction the fact that the trustee is
     acting for the trust;

          (f) for the purposes of section 83(2), set out the circumstances
              in which —

          (i) an individual is considered as ultimately owning a
              relevant trust party through a chain of ownership;
              and

          (ii) an individual is considered as ultimately controlling
               a relevant trust party, or as exercising ultimate
               effective control of a relevant trust party, through
               indirect control;

(g) provide that any contravention of any provision of the
     regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not
     exceeding $25,000;

                                                                    [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

(h) prescribe any matters that may be required or permitted by
     this Part to be prescribed; and

          (i) contain any transitional and other supplementary and
              incidental provisions that appear to the Minister to be
              appropriate.

                                                                                                          [14/2017]

                                                                             [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
93         Trustees Act 1967                                  2020 Ed.

           PART 8

           GENERAL PROVISIONS

Indemnity

 85.—(1) This Act and every order purporting to be made under this
Act shall be a complete indemnity to all persons (other than the
Commissioner or an authorised officer within the meanings given by
section 83) for any acts done pursuant to this Act.

                                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

 (2) It is not necessary for any person to inquire concerning the
propriety of the order, or whether the court by which the order was
made had jurisdiction to make it.

Offences by corporations

 85A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.               Trustees Act 1967                            94

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the corporation; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
95  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 85B.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

       (a) an officer, partner, employee or agent of the
            unincorporated association or partnership engaged in that
            conduct within the scope of his or her actual or apparent
            authority; and

       (b) the officer, partner, employee or agent had that state of
            mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.               Trustees Act 1967                            96

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
               knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
               commission of the offence by the unincorporated
               association or partnership; or

          (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                offence by the unincorporated association or
                partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
97  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

    (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
         president, secretary or member of a committee of the
         unincorporated association; and

    (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

    “state of mind” of a person includes —

    (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
         of the person; and

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

                                                               [Act 42 of 2024 wef 20/06/2025]

Dispositions and trusts created to defraud creditors

 86. To avoid doubt, every settlement or disposition of property
made or caused to be made on trust, before, on or after 30 July 2020,
that is a transaction at an undervalue within the meaning in
section 438 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018, is subject to that section.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Effect of Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
on transactions at undervalue and unfair preferences

 87.—(1) To avoid doubt, every settlement or disposition of
property made or caused to be made on trust, before, on or 30 July
2020, that is —

       (a) a transaction at an undervalue as defined in section 361
            (read with sections 363 and 364) of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018; or

       (b) an unfair preference as defined in section 362 (read with
            sections 363 and 364) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018,

is subject to the respective sections, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         98

 (2) Where the person making the settlement or disposition is a body
corporate, sections 224 to 227 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and
Dissolution Act 2018 are to apply.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

Accumulation of income for duration of trusts

 88. The income arising from a trust may be accumulated for such
period as is allowed under section 31 of the Civil Law Act 1909.

Perpetuity period applicable to trusts

 89. For the purposes of the rule against perpetuities, the provisions
of sections 32, 33 and 34 of the Civil Law Act 1909 apply to trusts
created on or after 15 December 2004.

Validity of certain trusts

 90.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), where a person creates a trust or
transfers movable property to be held on an existing trust during the
person’s lifetime, the person is deemed to have the capacity to so
create the trust or transfer the property if the person has capacity to do
so under any of the following laws:

       (a) the law applicable in Singapore;

       (b) the law of the person’s domicile or nationality; or

       (c) the proper law of the transfer.

 (2) No rule relating to inheritance or succession affects the validity
of a trust or the transfer of any property to be held on trust if the
person creating the trust or transferring the property had the capacity
to do so under subsection (1).

 (3) Subsection (1) —

       (a) does not apply if, at the time of the creation of the trust or
            the transfer of the property to be held on trust, the person
            creating the trust or transferring the property is a citizen of
            Singapore or is domiciled in Singapore; and

       (b) applies in relation to a trust only if the trust is expressed to
            be governed by Singapore law and the trustees are resident
            in Singapore.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
99  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

 (4) In subsection (1), the reference to “law” does not include any
choice of law rules forming part of that law.

 (5) No trust or settlement of any property on trust is invalid by
reason only of the person creating the trust or making the settlement
reserving to the person all or any powers of investment or asset
management functions under the trust or settlement.

Saving and transitional provisions

 91.—(1) Where a trust deed created before 15 December 2004
confers on a trustee the power to invest trust funds in accordance with
the repealed First Schedule to this Act in force immediately before
that date, however the conferment of that power may be expressed in
the trust deed, the power of investment so conferred is, as from that
date, deemed to be the general power of investment under section 4 of
this Act in force as from that date.

 (2) A trustee shall not be liable for breach of the statutory duty of
care by reason only of the trustee continuing to hold an investment
which has ceased to be an investment made by the trustee pursuant to
the repealed First Schedule to this Act in force immediately before
15 December 2004 if they are investments which a trustee may make
under section 4 of this Act in force as from that date.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                          Sections 3A(1) and 41N

    APPLICATION OF STATUTORY DUTY OF CARE UNDER PART 1A
Investment
 1. The duty of care under Part 1A applies to a trustee —

        (a) when exercising the general power of investment or any other power of
             investment, however conferred; or

        (b) when carrying out any duty imposed on the trustee by this Act in
             relation to the investment of trust funds.

Acquisition of land
 2. The duty of care under Part 1A applies to a trustee —

        (a) when exercising any power to acquire land, however conferred; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
2020 Ed.  Trustees Act 1967                                         100

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

(b) when exercising any power in relation to land acquired under a power
     mentioned in sub‑paragraph (a).

Agents, nominees and custodians

 3.—(1) The duty of care under Part 1A applies to a trustee —

        (a) when entering into arrangements under which a person is authorised
             under section 41B to exercise functions as an agent;

        (b) when entering into arrangements under which a person is appointed
             under section 41G to act as a nominee;

        (c) when entering into arrangements under which a person is appointed
             under section 41H or 41I to act as a custodian;

        (d) when entering into arrangements under which, under any other power,
             however conferred, a person is authorised to exercise functions as an
             agent or is appointed to act as a nominee or custodian; or

        (e) when carrying out the trustee’s duties under section 41M (Review of
             agents, nominees and custodians, etc.).

 (2) For the purposes of sub‑paragraph (1), entering into arrangements under
which a person is authorised to exercise functions as an agent or is appointed to act
as a nominee or custodian includes, in particular —

        (a) selecting the person who is to act;

        (b) determining any terms on which the trustee is to act; and

        (c) if the person is being authorised to exercise asset management
             functions, the preparation of a policy statement under section 41F.

Compounding of liabilities
 4. The duty of care under Part 1A applies to a trustee —

        (a) when exercising the power under section 16 to do any of the things
             referred to in that section; or

        (b) when exercising any corresponding power, however conferred.

Insurance
 5. The duty of care under Part 1A applies to a trustee —

        (a) when exercising the power under section 21 to insure property; or
        (b) when exercising any corresponding power, however conferred.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
101  Trustees Act 1967                                         2020 Ed.

     FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

Reversionary interests, valuations and audit

6. The duty of care under Part 1A applies to a trustee —

     (a) when exercising the power under section 24(1) or (4) to do any of the
          things referred to in those subsections; or

     (b) when exercising any corresponding power, however conferred.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 67(1)

          PARTICULARS TO BE INSERTED IN APPLICATION FOR
                          INCORPORATION OF TRUSTEES

 1. The objects of the body or association of persons, and the rules and
regulations of the same, together with the date of, and parties to every deed, will or
other instrument (if any) creating, constituting or regulating the same.

 2. A statement and short description of the land, or interest in land, which at the
date of application is possessed by, or belonging to, or held on behalf of the body
or association of persons.

 3. The names, residences and descriptions of the trustees of the body or
association of persons.

 4. The proposed title of the body corporate, of which title the words “trustees”
and “registered” must form part.

 5. The proposed device of the common seal.

 6. The regulations for the custody and use of the common seal.

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 27(5)

         FORM OF POWER OF ATTORNEY UNDER SECTION 27(5)

   THIS GENERAL TRUSTEE POWER OF ATTORNEY is made on [date] by
[name of one donor] of [address of donor] as trustee of [name or details of one
trust].

   I appoint [name of one donee] of [address of donee] to be my attorney [if
desired, the date on which the delegation commences or the period for which it
continues (or both)] in accordance with section 27(5) of the Trustees Act 1967.

   [To be executed as a deed].

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                           TRUSTEES ACT 1967

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                 PART 1
                     TRUSTEES ORDINANCE
           (CHAPTER 34, 1955 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance XXVIII of 1914 — The Trustee Ordinance 1914

Bill            : G.N. No. 860/1914

First Reading   : 31 July 1914

Second Reading  : 2 October 1914

Third Reading   : 13 November 1914

Commencement    : 30 November 1914

Note: This Ordinance repealed the Official Trustees Act (Indian Act XVII of
        1843) and the Indian Trustee Act (Indian Act XXVII of 1866), and part
        of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Ordinance (Ordinance VI
        of 1886).

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 144 (Trustees)

Operation       : 28 November 1921

3. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 144 (Trustees)

Operation       : 1 August 1926

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                      ii

4. Ordinance 14 of 1929 — Trustees Ordinance, 1929

Bill                  : G.N. No. 155/1929

First Reading         : 28 January 1929

Second Reading        : 25 March 1929

Notice of Amendments  : 25 March 1929

Third Reading         : 3 July 1929

Commencement          : 1 September 1929

5. Ordinance 63 of 1935 — Statute Law Revision Ordinance, 1935
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item (v) of the First Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : G.N. No. 3043/1935

First Reading         : 20 November 1935

Second Reading        : 9 December 1935

Notice of Amendments  : 9 December 1935

Third Reading         : 9 December 1935

Commencement          : 31 December 1935 (section 2 read
                            with item (v) of the First Schedule)

6. 1936 Revised Edition — Trustees Ordinance (Chapter 59)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

7. 1955 Revised Edition — Trustees Ordinance (Chapter 34)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

                                  PART 2
               TRUSTEE INVESTMENT ACT, 1965

                        (M. ACT 36 OF 1965)

8. M. Act 36 of 1965 — Trustee Investment Act, 1965

Commencement          : 30 June 1965

Note: This Ordinance repealed the Trustees Ordinance (Chapter 34, 1955
        Revised Edition) and extended the Federation of Malaya Trustee
        Ordinance, 1949 (M. Ordinance 66 of 1949) with modifications to
        Singapore.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                         iii

                               PART 3
                TRUSTEE ORDINANCE, 1949
                (M. ORDINANCE 66 OF 1949)

9. M. Ordinance 66 of 1949 — Trustee Ordinance, 1949

Commencement             : 31 December 1949

Application              : 30 June 1965

Note: This Ordinance was extended to Singapore with modifications by the
        Trustee Investment Act, 1965 (M. Act 36 of 1965) on 30 June 1965.

                            PART 4
                   TRUSTEES ACT 1967
                (2020 REVISED EDITION)

10. Act 17 of 1967 — Trustees Act, 1967

Bill                     : 48/1966

First Reading            : 26 October 1966

Second Reading           : 29 June 1967

Notice of Amendments     : 29 June 1967

Third Reading            : 29 June 1967

Commencement             : 15 July 1967

11. Act 42 of 1967 — Companies Act, 1967
     (Amendments made by section 3(1) read with Part B of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 58/1966

First Reading            : 5 December 1966

Second Reading           : 21 December 1966

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 11 of 1967

Third Reading            : 21 December 1967

Commencement             : 29 December 1967 (section 3(1) read
                               with Part B of the First Schedule)

12. Act 39 of 1970 — Trustees (Amendment) Act, 1970

Bill                     : 31/1970

First Reading            : 22 July 1970

Second Reading           : 2 September 1970

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                      iv

Notice of Amendments  : 2 September 1970

Third Reading         : 2 September 1970

Commencement          : 30 October 1970

13. 1970 Revised Edition — Trustees Act (Chapter 40)

Operation             : 1 March 1971

14. Act 10 of 1975 — Trustees (Amendment) Act, 1975

Bill                  : 19/1975

First Reading         : 17 March 1975

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1975

Commencement          : 25 April 1975

15. Act 8 of 1978 — Trustees (Amendment) Act, 1978

Bill                  : 3/1978

First Reading         : 31 January 1978

Second and Third Readings : 17 February 1978

Commencement          : 10 March 1978

16. Act 21 of 1982 — Trustees (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill                  : 11/1982

First Reading         : 27 July 1982

Second and Third Readings : 31 August 1982

Commencement          : 1 October 1982

17. 1985 Revised Edition — Trustees Act (Chapter 337)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

18. Act 9 of 1987 — Development Loan Act 1987
     (Amendments made by section 26 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 7/1987

First Reading         : 13 March 1987

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1987

Commencement          : 10 April 1987 (section 26)

19. Act 39 of 1989 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 1989

Bill                  : 40/1989

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                         v

First Reading            : 6 October 1989

Second and Third Readings : 30 November 1989

Commencement             : 5 January 1990

20. Act 24 of 1991 — Land Surveyors Act 1991
     (Amendments made by section 52(1) read with item (4) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                     : 11/1991

First Reading            : 27 February 1991

Second Reading           : 22 March 1991

Select Committee Report  : Parl. 3 of 1991

Third Reading            : 28 June 1991

Commencement             : 30 August 1991 (section 52(1) read
                               with item (4) of the Schedule)

21. Act 23 of 1992 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 1992

Bill                     : 18/1992

First Reading            : 27 February 1992

Second and Third Readings : 29 May 1992

Commencement             : 26 June 1992

22. G.N. No. S 231/1996 — Trustees Act (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Order 1996

Commencement             : 15 May 1996

23. Act 7 of 1997 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 1997
     (Amendments made by section 6 read with item (12) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                     : 6/1997

First Reading            : 11 July 1997

Second and Third Readings : 25 August 1997

Commencement             : 1 October 1997 (section 6 read with
                               item (12) of the First Schedule)

24. G.N. No. S 44/1998 — Trustees Act (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                   Order 1998

Commencement             : 23 January 1998

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                     vi

25. Act 37 of 1998 — Post Office Savings Bank of Singapore (Transfer of
                             Undertakings and Dissolution) Act 1998

     (Amendments made by section 19 read with item (10) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill                 : 34/1998

First Reading        : 31 July 1998

Second Reading       : 12 October 1998

Notice of Amendment  : 12 October 1998

Third Reading        : 12 October 1998

Commencement         : 16 November 1998 (section 19 read
                           with item (10) of the Schedule)

26. G.N. No. S 322/1999 — Trustees Act (Amendment of First Schedule)
                                    Order 1999

Commencement         : 16 July 1999

27. 1999 Revised Edition — Trustees Act (Chapter 337)

Operation            : 1 August 1999

28. G.N. No. S 316/2000 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Trustees Act)
                                    (Rectification) Order 2000

Operation            : 1 August 1999

29. Act 22 of 2000 — Auctioneers’ Licences (Amendment) Act 2000
     (Amendments made by section 14(4) of the above Act)

Bill                 : 17/2000

First Reading        : 22 May 2000

Second and Third Readings : 3 July 2000

Commencement         : 1 August 2000 (section 14(4))

30. Act 17 of 2001 — Singapore Land Authority Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 38(1) read with item (18) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                 : 17/2001

First Reading        : 5 March 2001

Second and Third Readings : 19 April 2001

Commencement         : 1 June 2001 (section 38(1) read with
                           item (18) of the Fourth Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
               vii

31. Act 42 of 2001 — Securities and Futures Act 2001
     (Amendments made by section 343(1) read with item (13) of the Fourth
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill           : 33/2001

First Reading  : 25 September 2001

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2001

Commencement   : 1 July 2002 (section 343(1) read with
                     item (13) of the Fourth Schedule)

32. Act 38 of 2002 — Stamp Duties (Amendment) Act 2002
     (Amendments made by section 11 read with item (5) of the Schedule to the
     above Act)

Bill           : 40/2002

First Reading  : 31 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 25 November 2002

Commencement   : 1 January 2003 (section 11 read with
                     item (5) of the Schedule)

33. Act 45 of 2004 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2004

Bill           : 43/2004

First Reading  : 21 September 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 2004

Commencement   : 15 December 2004

34. 2005 Revised Edition — Trustees Act (Chapter 337)

Operation      : 31 July 2005

35. Act 42 of 2005 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) (No. 2) Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 5 read with item (35) of the First Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill           : 30/2005

First Reading  : 17 October 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2005

Commencement   : 1 January 2006 (section 5 read with
                     item (35) of the First Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                      viii

36. Act 11 of 2005 — Trust Companies Act 2005
     (Amendments made by section 84 read with item (8) of the Fifth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 1/2005

First Reading         : 25 January 2005

Second and Third Readings : 18 February 2005

Commencement          : 1 February 2006 (section 84 read with
                            item (8) of the Fifth Schedule)

37. Act 21 of 2008 — Mental Health (Care and Treatment) Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 33 read with item 1(51) of the Second
     Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2008

First Reading         : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement          : 1 March 2010 (section 33 read with
                            item 1(51) of the Second Schedule)

38. Act 22 of 2008 — Mental Capacity Act 2008
     (Amendments made by section 47 read with item (6) of the Third Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2008

First Reading         : 21 July 2008

Second and Third Readings : 15 September 2008

Commencement          : 1 March 2010 (section 47 read with
                            item (6) of the Third Schedule)

39. Act 2 of 2012 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2012
     (Amendments made by section 34 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 22/2011

First Reading         : 21 November 2011

Second Reading        : 18 January 2012

Notice of Amendments  : 18 January 2012

Third Reading         : 18 January 2012

Commencement          : 1 March 2012 (section 34)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                      ix

40. G.N. No. S 340/2012 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification)
                                    Order 2012

Operation             : 1 August 1999 (paragraph 2 read with
                            item 2(a) of the Schedule)
                            31 July 2005 (paragraph 2 read with
                            item 2(b) of the Schedule)

41. Act 36 of 2014 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2014
     (Amendments made by section 188 read with item 4 of the Second Schedule
     to the above Act)

Bill                  : 25/2014

First Reading         : 8 September 2014

Second Reading        : 7 October 2014

Notice of Amendments  : 8 October 2014

Third Reading         : 8 October 2014

Commencement          : 3 January 2016 (section 188 read with
                            item 4 of the Second Schedule)

42. Act 16 of 2016 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2016
     (Amendments made by section 48 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 15/2016

First Reading         : 14 April 2016

Second and Third Readings : 9 May 2016

Commencement          : 1 July 2016 (section 48)

43. Act 14 of 2017 — Trustees (Amendment) Act 2017

Bill                  : 12/2017

First Reading         : 28 February 2017

Second and Third Readings : 10 March 2017

Commencement          : 31 March 2017

44. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 522 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 522)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                      x

45. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 162 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 162 of the Schedule)

46. 2020 Revised Edition — Trustees Act 1967

Operation             : 31 December 2021

47. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 218 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

48. Act 42 of 2024 — Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Amendment)
                            and Other Matters Act 2024

Bill                  : 35/2024

First Reading         : 14 October 2024

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 2024

Commencement          : 20 June 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
.                                 xi
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
                           COMPARATIVE TABLE
                            TRUSTEES ACT 1967

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                      2005 Ed.
33—(2)
                           33—(1A)
   (3)                        (2)
   (4)                        (3)
   (5)                        (4)
   (6)                        (5)
45—(1) and (2)
   (3)                     45—(1)
   (4)                        (2)
49—(1) and (2)                (3)

                           49

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 20/6/2025
