         ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING ACT 2022

         (No. 43 of 2022)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
     1.  General interpretation
     2.  Meaning of “supply”
     3.  Meanings of “charging station operator”, “electric vehicle
     4.  charging service” and associated terms
         Purpose of Act
     5.

                                        PART 2

                          SUPPLY OF EV CHARGERS

                    Division 1 — Approval needed to supply

 6. Only homologated model of EV charger can be supplied
 7. Application for homologation of EV charger model
 8. Approval labels
 9. Revocation of section 7(3) approval
10. Follow-up after revocation of section 7(3) approval

              Division 2 — Alteration post-section 7(3) approval

11. No alteration, etc., of EV charger of homologated model
12. Approval of alteration, etc.
13. Alteration-approved labels

               Division 3 — Advertising supply of EV chargers

14. Interpretation of this Division
15. Prohibited advertising of non-approved EV charger
16. Defences
17. Corrective measures for unlawful advertisement

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2  NO. 43 OF 2022

                                            PART 3
                     REGISTRATION OF EV CHARGERS AND
                      REGISTERED RESPONSIBLE PERSONS

                           Division 1 — Offences on charging
Section

   18. Unlawful charging with unregistered EV charger

                 Division 2 — Registered-for-charging EV chargers
   19. Registration of EV charger
   20. Registration marks and registered responsible person
   21. Cancellation of registration
   22. Register of registered-for-charging EV chargers

             Division 3 — Certification and installation of EV charger
   23. Improper certification of EV charger
   24. Improper installation of fixed EV charger

                 Division 4 — Registered responsible persons’ duties
   25. Periodic inspection of EV charger
   26. Keeping of records
   27. Duty of registered responsible person who is transferor

                                            PART 4
                    SPECIALLY AUTHORISED EV CHARGERS

   28. Rules for trials and special uses

                                            PART 5
                              SAFETY OF EV CHARGERS

                                   Division 1 — Offences
   29. Improper use of EV chargers
   30. Improper charging
   31. Tampering with EV charger, etc.
   32. Unauthorised removal, defacement, etc., of labels and marks
   33. Counterfeiting labels and marks

                               Division 2 — Product defects
   34. Interpretation of this Division
   35. Duty to notify safety-related defect in EV chargers
   36. Duty to observe warning in section 35 notice

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
         ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                                  3

Section  Safety and security directives
         How safety and security directive is given
   37.   General duty to comply with safety and security directives
   38.
   39.

                                        PART 6

                                     LICENSING

                                Division 1 — General

40. Interpretation of this Part
41. Unauthorised regulated activity

                               Division 2 — Licences

42. Application for or to renew licence
43. Grant of licence
44. Periodic fee for licence and licence validity
45. Conditions of licence
46. Modifying conditions of licence
47. Modifying types of EV chargers on licensee’s application
48. Restriction on surrender of licence

                 Division 3 — Business operation requirements

49. Record-keeping and giving information
50. Publication of information on publicly accessible online

         platform
51. Standards of performance for licensees
52. Directions affecting licensees

            Division 4 — Regulatory action in respect of licensees

53. Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence
54. Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.
55. Proceedings for regulatory action

                                        PART 7

                           STEP-IN ARRANGEMENTS

56. Application of this Part
57. Step-in order
58. Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.
59. Rules and saving for step-in arrangements

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
4        NO. 43 OF 2022

         PART 8

         MINIMUM ELECTRICAL LOAD AND
         CHARGING POINTS IN BUILDINGS

         Division 1 — Introduction

Section  Interpretation of this Part
         Application of this Part
   60.   Disapplication of this Part
   61.   Power to exempt
   62.
   63.

         Division 2 — Requirements for building works

   64. Minimum electrical load and charging points in parking place
            for building works

         Division 3 — Requirements for electrical work

   65. Minimum electrical load and charging points in parking place
            for electrical work

   66. Request for information from market support services licensee

                                           PART 9

                                          APPEALS

   67. Interpretation of this Part
   68. Appeal to Minister
   69. Decision on appeal
   70. Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

                                          PART 10

                         EVIDENCE AND ENFORCEMENT

                                  Division 1 — Evidence

   71. Labels and marking of EV chargers
   72. Extract of register of registered-for-charging EV chargers

                                   Division 2 — Powers

   73. Purpose for which powers are exercisable
   74. Powers of entry, etc., at premises
   75. Powers in relation to motor vehicles
   76. Power to obtain information
   77. Power of examination
   78. Power to remove, etc., EV chargers

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                                          5

                                   Division 3 — Offences

Section
   79. Obstructing authorised officer, etc.
   80. Other offences

                          Division 4 — Supplementary powers

   81. Composition of offences
   82. Holding yards and follow-up after removal thereto
   83. Forfeiture of seized EV chargers
   84. Disposal of forfeited EV chargers
   85. Offences by corporations
   86. Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   87. Jurisdiction of courts

                                           PART 11

                                    ADMINISTRATION

   88. Administration of Act by LTA
   89. Authorised officers
   90. Recovery of fees and penalties

                                           PART 12

                                    MISCELLANEOUS

   91. Application of Act
   92. General power to exempt
   93. Service of documents
   94. Regulations
   95. Incorporation by reference, etc.
   96. Presentation to Parliament

                                           PART 13

                      AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND
                                   FINAL PROVISIONS

   97. Amendment of Building Maintenance and Strata Management
            Act 2004

   98. Amendment of Electricity Act 2001
   99. Amendment of Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995
  100. Saving and transitional provisions

            The Schedule — Saving and transitional provisions

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
6  NO. 43 OF 2022

An Act to regulate devices intended for charging electric vehicles and
  operators of charging stations and providers of charging services
  for electric vehicles, to expand the network of accessible electric
  vehicle charging points, and to make consequential and related
  amendments to certain other Acts.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               7

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title and commencement

 1. This Act is the Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022 and comes
into operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in
the Gazette.

General interpretation

 2. In this Act —

      “acquire”, in relation to any thing, means —

              (a) to buy (by wholesale or retail) the thing;

              (b) to accept or receive a supply of the thing; or

              (c) to accept or receive a transfer of ownership or
                   possession (by gift, lending or supply) of the thing;

      “advertisement” means any information or material that gives
         publicity or any announcement or notice that is —

              (a) any writing;

              (b) any still or moving picture, sign, symbol or other
                   visual image;

              (c) any audible message; or

              (d) any combination of 2 or more of those things in
                   paragraphs (a), (b) and (c);

      “approved person”, in relation to a homologated model, means a
         person given approval by the LTA under section 7(3) for that
         homologated model;

      “arrangement” includes a contract, an agreement, an
         understanding or other arrangement of any kind, whether
         written or unwritten;

      “authorised officer”, for any provision of this Act, means an
         individual who is appointed under section 89 as an authorised
         officer for the purposes of that provision;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
8  NO. 43 OF 2022

   “battery”, in relation to an electric vehicle, means a rechargeable
      energy storage system which can be recharged with
      electricity externally so as to derive power to propel an
      electric vehicle equipped with that rechargeable energy
      storage system;

   “battery charge and swap station” or “BCSS” has the meaning
      given by section 4(4);

   “business” includes any business, whether or not carried on for
      profit and whether or not its primary function is connected
      with an EV charging service;

   “charge” means the transfer of electricity from a charging point
      or an EV charger to the battery of an electric vehicle;

   “charging point” means —

           (a) each electrical socket outlet that is part of a fixed EV
                charger from which electricity may be supplied
                during charging of a single electric vehicle;

           (b) each vehicle connector that is part of a fixed EV
                charger and is insertable into an electric vehicle inlet
                of a single electric vehicle so as to supply electricity
                during charging of that single electric vehicle; or

           (c) for a fixed EV charger which has both features in
                paragraphs (a) and (b), each combination of those
                features from which electricity may be supplied
                during charging of a single electric vehicle;

   “charging station” means a place in Singapore with an electrical
      installation —

           (a) to which a fixed EV charger is affixed; and

           (b) which provides one or more charging points,

      and includes a battery charge and swap station;

   “charging station operator” has the meaning given by
      section 4(1);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               9

“electric vehicle” or “EV” means a motor vehicle that is —

        (a) propelled wholly or partly by electricity, whether or
             not designed or adapted to be capable, in at least
             some circumstances or situations, of safely driving
             itself; and

        (b) equipped with a battery;

“electric vehicle charger” or “EV charger” means any device
   that is used to supply electricity to the battery of an electric
   vehicle for the purpose of charging the battery, including any
   wiring, fitting or apparatus (but not the isolator) connected to
   the device for that same purpose;

“electric vehicle charging service” or “EV charging service” has
   the meaning given by section 4(2);

“electrical installation” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the Electricity Act 2001;

“fixed EV charger” means an EV charger that is, or is designed
   to be capable of being, affixed to any electrical installation,
   and includes the following:

        (a) a high‑powered fixed EV charger;

        (b) a pantograph fixed EV charger;

“general public” means the general public in Singapore and
   includes a section of the general public in Singapore;

“homologated model”, for an EV charger, means a model of EV
   charger in respect of which the LTA grants a section 7(3)
   approval;

“licence” means a licence granted under Part 6 to undertake a
   regulated activity specified in the licence;

“licensee” means a person to whom a licence is granted;

“LTA” means the Land Transport Authority of Singapore
   established under the Land Transport Authority of
   Singapore Act 1995;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
10  NO. 43 OF 2022

    “LTA’s website” means the Internet website of the address
       prescribed;

    “motor vehicle” means a vehicle that —

            (a) is propelled wholly or partly by a motor or by any
                 means other than human or animal power; and

            (b) is used or intended to be used on any road;

    “non‑fixed EV charger” means an EV charger that is not a fixed
       EV charger;

    “offence under this Act” includes an offence under any
       Regulations;

    “officer”, in relation to an applicant for a licence or a licensee,
       means —

            (a) where the applicant or licensee is a body corporate
                 (including a limited liability partnership) —

                   (i) an individual for the time being holding the
                        office of chairperson, director, partner, chief
                        executive officer, manager or company
                        secretary (as the case may be) of the body
                        corporate or any position analogous to any of
                        those offices; or

                   (ii) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by
                        its members, any of those members as if the
                        member were a director of the corporation;

            (b) where the applicant or licensee is a partnership
                 (including a limited partnership), a partner of the
                 partnership; or

            (c) where the applicant or licensee is an unincorporated
                 association (other than a partnership), an individual
                 for the time being holding the office of president,
                 secretary or member (as the case may be) of a
                 committee of the unincorporated association, or any
                 position analogous to any of those offices,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               11

   and includes any person carrying out the duties of any such
   office referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) if the office is
   vacant;

“outsourced enforcement officer”, in relation to any provision of
   this Act or the Regulations, means an individual who —

        (a) is appointed under section 11 of the Land Transport
             Authority of Singapore Act 1995;

        (b) is authorised by or under that Act to exercise any
             powers under any provision of this Act or the
             Regulations, as the case may be; and

        (c) is acting within that authorisation;

“place” means any of the following in Singapore:

        (a) a building or structure (whether permanent or
             temporary);

        (b) an open space or open area (whether indoor or
             outdoor);

        (c) a motor vehicle,

   and includes any part of a place, such as a room;

“public authority” means a body that is established or
   constituted by or under a public Act to perform or
   discharge a public function, but does not include any Town
   Council;

“publish” means to make available to the general public, in
   whatever form and by whatever means;

“register of registered‑for‑charging EV chargers” is the register
   of that name required to be kept and maintained under
   section 22;

“registered‑for‑charging EV charger” means an EV charger that
   is registered under section 19;

“registered responsible person”, in relation to a
   registered‑for‑charging EV charger, means a person issued
   with the registration mark of that EV charger under section 20

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
12                  NO. 43 OF 2022

    or the last person to whom the registration is transferred
    under section 27;

    “regulated activity” means either or both of the following:

    (a) providing electric vehicle charging services in
         Singapore;

    (b) engaging in conduct as a charging station operator;

    “Regulations” means regulations made under section 94;

    “repeat offender”, in relation to any offence under this Act,
       means a person who —

    (a) is convicted, or found guilty, of such an offence
         (called the current offence); and

    (b) has been convicted or found guilty of the same
         offence on at least one other earlier occasion within
         the period of 5 years immediately before the date on
         which the person is convicted or found guilty of the
         current offence;

    “section 7(3) approval” means an approval given under
       section 7(3) in respect of a model of EV charger;

    “specially authorised EV charger” means an EV charger that is
       the subject of rules made under Part 4;

    “unregistered EV charger” means an EV charger that is not a
       registered‑for‑charging EV charger;

    “vehicle” means any vehicle designed or adapted for use on a
       road but excludes any of the following within the meanings
       given by the Active Mobility Act 2017:

    (a) a bicycle;

    (b) a mobility vehicle;

                                     [Act 5 of 2026 wef 04/05/2026]

    (c) a personal mobility device;

    (d) a non‑motorised wheelchair;

                                                                [Act 5 of 2026 wef 04/05/2026]

    (e) a wheeled toy.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               13

Meaning of “supply”

 3.—(1) In this Act, “supply” includes carrying on any of the
following activities, or a combination of those activities, in relation to
any thing:

       (a) selling or agreeing to sell the thing;

       (b) bartering or exchanging the thing;

       (c) giving away the thing, whether or not as a prize or reward,
            or as a free sample or for the purpose of advertising, or in
            furtherance of, any trade or business;

       (d) selling, bartering, exchanging, hiring out or leasing out any
            product or object of which the thing forms a part;

       (e) doing any of the above as an agent or a broker, or by an
            agent or a broker.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person takes part in the supply of
any thing if the person takes, or participates in, any step, or causes any
step to be taken, in the process of that supply.

 (3) Despite subsection (2), a person is not treated as taking part in
the supply of any thing by reason only that the person provided
financing for any step taken in the process of the supply of that thing.

 (4) In this section, “sale” includes —

       (a) sale under a conditional sale agreement or a hire‑purchase
            agreement as defined by the Hire‑Purchase Act 1969; and

       (b) resale.

Meanings of “charging station operator”, “electric vehicle
charging service” and associated terms

 4.—(1) A reference in this Act to a charging station operator is a
reference to a person who —

       (a) operates in the course of any business, one or more
            charging stations for use primarily by the general public to
            charge any electric vehicle for its propulsion;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
14  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (b) operates in the course of any business, one or more
            charging stations for the exclusive use of all or any of the
            following persons for any of the following purposes:

               (i) an employee of the person for the performance of
                   employment duties —

                     (A) to charge an electric vehicle under that
                          employee’s charge and control; or

                     (B) to exchange a depleted (in whole or in part)
                          battery of an electric vehicle under that
                          employee’s charge and control for a
                          recharged battery;

              (ii) an outworker for the performance of duties under an
                   outwork arrangement with the person —

                     (A) to charge an electric vehicle under that
                          outworker’s charge and control; or

                     (B) to exchange a depleted (in whole or in part)
                          battery of an electric vehicle under that
                          outworker’s charge and control for a
                          recharged battery;

             (iii) an individual engaged in any particular occupation
                   under an arrangement with the person in order to
                   carry on his or her occupation —

                     (A) to charge an electric vehicle under that
                          individual’s charge and control; or

                     (B) to exchange a depleted (in whole or in part)
                          battery of an electric vehicle under that
                          individual’s charge and control for a
                          recharged battery; or

       (c) has charge and control of any charging point in any place
            in Singapore (whether or not in the course of any business)
            to charge any electric vehicle for its propulsion unless
            excluded by the Minister by order in the Gazette.

 (2) A reference in this Act to an “electric vehicle charging service”
or “EV charging service” is a reference to a service —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               15

       (a) that is provided using any charging point (except at a
            BCSS) under which any person may, on‑demand or
            otherwise, and for consideration, hire that charging point
            to charge an electric vehicle for its propulsion;

       (b) that is provided using a BCSS under which any person can,
            on‑demand or otherwise, and for consideration, exchange a
            depleted (in whole or in part) battery of an electric vehicle
            for a recharged battery for the propulsion of the electric
            vehicle;

       (c) that is provided using a non‑fixed EV charger under which
            any person may enter into a lease arrangement to rent the
            non‑fixed EV charger to charge an electric vehicle for its
            propulsion; or

       (d) under which any person may, by any other arrangement
            and for consideration, charge an electric vehicle for its
            propulsion,

regardless if the service is provided on a single occasion or on one or
more occasions within a fixed period of time, but excludes any
service of a kind that is prescribed by the Minister by order in the
Gazette as not an EV charging service.

 (3) In addition, in this Act, an “electric vehicle charging service” or
“EV charging service” extends to any service described in
subsection (2) provided —

       (a) as a free gift, or with the supply of any other goods or
            services or the provision of any parking place or parking
            lot as a free gift;

       (b) as a prize or reward in any lottery, raffle, draw, game or
            competition held in Singapore; or

       (c) as a free demonstration of an EV charging service or
            otherwise for the purpose of advertising, or in furtherance
            of, an EV charging service or any other trade or business.

 (4) In this Act —

      “battery charge and swap station” or “BCSS” means a place in
         Singapore installed with a fixed EV charger that is designed

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
16  NO. 43 OF 2022

         or adapted to be capable of exchanging a depleted (in whole
         or in part) battery of an electric vehicle for a recharged
         battery for the propulsion of the electric vehicle;

      “outwork arrangement” means a contract, an agreement, an
         understanding or other arrangement of any kind (whether
         written or unwritten) with a contractor —

              (a) under which an individual (whether or not in the
                   course of business or providing other services)
                   performs work contracted to be performed under
                   that contract, agreement, understanding or other
                   arrangement for the contractor; and

              (b) that is not a contract of employment;

      “outworker” means an individual who performs work under an
         outwork arrangement;

      “providing an electric vehicle charging service” means
         providing an EV charging service in the course of business,
         whether or not the primary function of the business involves
         an EV charger.

Purpose of Act

 5. The purpose of this Act is to reduce the carbon emissions of road
transport in Singapore through the use of electricity sources which
serve as a whole or partial substitute for fossil fuels sources in road
transport in Singapore, by —

       (a) promoting the safe use of EV chargers through regulation
            of the supply of EV chargers;

       (b) expanding the network of accessible charging points
            through infrastructure development measures; and

       (c) ensuring the safe undertaking of regulated activities, and
            the reliability of the network of charging points and
            provision of EV charging services.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               17

                                    PART 2

                      SUPPLY OF EV CHARGERS

                Division 1 — Approval needed to supply

Only homologated model of EV charger can be supplied

 6.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person commits an offence if
the person supplies in Singapore to another (whether in or outside
Singapore) for any purpose an EV charger —

       (a) that is not of a homologated model; and

       (b) that the person knows or ought reasonably to know is not of
            a homologated model.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to the supply of an EV charger in
Singapore —

       (a) for the sole purpose of its destruction or export;

       (b) that is a specially authorised EV charger; or

       (c) that is of a former homologated model but covered by
            grandfathering arrangements because of a prospective
            revocation under section 9(3)(b) of the section 7(3)
            approval of that model.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 48 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $40,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $80,000.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
18  NO. 43 OF 2022

Application for homologation of EV charger model

 7.—(1) An application for approval under subsection (3) in respect
of a model of EV charger must be made to the LTA.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made to the LTA in the form and manner prescribed or,
            if not so prescribed, as required by the LTA;

       (b) provide or make available an EV charger of the model
            which is the subject of the application, for inspection or
            demonstration before the LTA unless the LTA waives this
            requirement; and

       (c) be accompanied by —

               (i) the prescribed information and documents and any
                   additional information or documents that the LTA
                   may require to decide the application; and

              (ii) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the LTA may approve a
model of EV charger if it is satisfied that the model of EV charger
satisfies the safety and performance standards prescribed to be a
homologated model.

 (4) The LTA may refuse to approve any model of EV charger under
subsection (3) if —

       (a) the application for the approval contains any false or
            misleading information; or

       (b) the applicant fails —

               (i) to provide or make available an EV charger of the
                   model which is the subject of the application, for
                   inspection or demonstration before the LTA where
                   this requirement is not waived; or

              (ii) to provide the information and documents required
                   under subsection (2)(c).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               19

 (5) The LTA may retain an EV charger that is provided or made
available in connection with an application under this section without
charge for so long as the LTA requires to decide the application.

Approval labels

 8.—(1) Upon granting a person a section 7(3) approval for a model
of EV charger (called an approved person), the LTA must —

       (a) issue the approved person with an approval code for the
            approved person and that homologated model; and

       (b) make available to the approved person, on payment by the
            approved person of a fee (if prescribed), approval labels to
            be affixed to each EV charger of that same model which
            the approved person intends to supply, install, certify or
            charge with in Singapore.

 (2) An approved person for a homologated model must take all
reasonably practicable steps to ensure that an approval label made
available by the LTA under subsection (1)(b) —

       (a) is affixed to each EV charger of that homologated model
            that the approved person intends to supply, install or certify
            before the EV charger is first supplied, installed or certified
            by the person in Singapore;

       (b) is not affixed to an EV charger which is of a different
            model from that to which the label relates; and

       (c) is affixed to the relevant EV charger in accordance with the
            manner prescribed.

 (3) An approved person for a homologated model who contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 6 months or to both; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
20  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,500; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $5,000.

Revocation of section 7(3) approval

 9.—(1) The LTA may revoke the approval given to a person in
respect of an EV charger under section 7(3) if the LTA is of the
opinion that —

       (a) the model of that EV charger has ceased to satisfy the
            safety and performance standards prescribed to be a
            homologated model;

       (b) the section 7(3) approval was procured by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (c) the LTA becomes aware of a circumstance that would have
            permitted the LTA to refuse to give the section 7(3)
            approval, had the LTA been aware of the circumstance
            immediately before giving that approval; or

       (d) revocation is appropriate and necessary so as —

               (i) to alleviate or minimise a serious and imminent
                   threat or risk to the security of the supply of
                   electricity to consumers in Singapore; or

              (ii) to avoid any actual or imminent occurrence that may
                   cause the death of, or a serious injury to, any
                   individual or serious damage to any property from
                   the use of any EV charger of that model.

 (2) Unless not practicable in the circumstances, the LTA must,
before revoking any section 7(3) approval under subsection (1), give
written notice to the person to whom the approval was given —

       (a) stating that the LTA intends to revoke the approval;

       (b) specifying the grounds for the proposed revocation; and

       (c) specifying the time (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of notice on the person to whom the approval was

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               21

            given) within which written representations may be made
            to the LTA with respect to the proposed revocation.

 (3) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (2)(c), decide to revoke, with effect from the
effective date in subsection (5), any section 7(3) approval granted
with respect to a model of EV charger either —

       (a) absolutely for all EV chargers of that model; or

       (b) prospectively without affecting EV chargers of that model
            to which approval labels have been affixed before that
            specified date.

 (4) Where the LTA decides to revoke a section 7(3) approval in
respect of a model of EV charger, the LTA must serve a notice of its
decision on the person to whom the approval was given.

 (5) A decision to revoke a section 7(3) approval takes effect from
the date on which the notice under subsection (4) is given, or on such
other date as may be specified in the notice.

 (6) In the case of a prospective revocation under subsection (3)(b)
of a model of EV charger without affecting EV chargers of that model
to which approval labels have been affixed before a specified date,
every EV charger not affected is to be treated, for the purposes of this
Act, as subject to a grandfathering arrangement because of that
prospective revocation.

Follow-up after revocation of section 7(3) approval

 10.—(1) In addition to section 9, where the LTA revokes a
section 7(3) approval for a model of EV charger, the LTA must
publish —

       (a) a notice of the revocation; and

       (b) in the case of an absolute revocation under section 9(3)(a),
            a notice that EV chargers of that model must no longer bear
            an approval label from a time specified in that notice,

in a manner that the LTA thinks will secure adequate publicity for the
fact of revocation.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
22  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (2) Upon publication of a notice under subsection (1) about the
revocation of any section 7(3) approval with respect to a model of EV
charger —

       (a) a person in possession of any approval label made
            available under section 8 for that same model must not
            intentionally affix, or intentionally or negligently allow to
            be affixed, any such approval label to any EV charger at
            any time on or after the effective date of revocation in
            section 9(5); and

       (b) in the case of an absolute revocation under section 9(3)(a),
            a person in possession of an EV charger of that same model
            which, on the date the notice is published, has such an
            approval label affixed —

               (i) must not intentionally transfer possession of the EV
                   charger, or intentionally or negligently allow
                   possession of the EV charger to be transferred,
                   with the approval label still affixed unless the
                   transfer is for the purpose of destroying or
                   exporting the EV charger; and

              (ii) must take all reasonably practicable steps to remove
                   the approval label from the EV charger within the
                   period specified in the notice.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2)(a) or (b) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 6 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,500; but

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               23

(ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
     exceeding $5,000.

          Division 2 — Alteration post-section 7(3) approval

No alteration, etc., of EV charger of homologated model

 11.—(1) A person must not alter or modify, or allow to be altered or
modified an EV charger that —

       (a) is of a homologated model; or

       (b) is of a former homologated model but covered by
            grandfathering arrangements because of a prospective
            revocation under section 9(3)(b),

except with the prior approval of the LTA under section 12 for the
alteration or modification.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 48 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $40,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $80,000.

 (3) An EV charger that is altered or modified in contravention of
subsection (1) is treated as having ceased to belong to that
homologated model or former homologated model, as the case may
be.

 (4) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (3), it is immaterial
whether the altering or modifying of the EV charger is to rectify any

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
24  NO. 43 OF 2022

damage to it or to return the EV charger to its original operable
condition.

 (5) However, subsections (1) and (3) do not apply to altering or
modifying an EV charger that consists of or results in any minor
change in features, functionalities or performance of the EV charger
that is prescribed.

Approval of alteration, etc.

 12.—(1) An application for approval to alter or modify an EV
charger must be made to the LTA —

       (a) in the form and manner prescribed or, if not so prescribed,
            as required by the LTA; and

       (b) accompanied by —

               (i) the prescribed information and documents and any
                   additional information or documents that the LTA
                   may require to decide the application; and

              (ii) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (2) The LTA may refuse to give to an applicant any approval under
subsection (1) to alter or modify an EV charger if —

       (a) the proposed alteration or modification will, in the LTA’s
            opinion, cause the EV charger —

               (i) to cease to satisfy the safety and performance
                   standards prescribed to be a homologated model,
                   or the safety and performance standards that were
                   prescribed for a former homologated model if the EV
                   charger concerned is covered by grandfathering
                   arrangements because of a prospective revocation
                   under section 9(3)(b); or

              (ii) to become another model of EV charger;

       (b) the application for the approval contains any false or
            misleading information; or

       (c) the applicant fails to provide the information and
            documents required under subsection (1)(b).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               25

 (3) An EV charger of a homologated model does not cease to
belong to that homologated model even if the EV charger is altered or
modified, so long as the alteration or modification is with the prior
approval of the LTA under this section for the alteration or
modification.

 (4) An EV charger covered by grandfathering arrangements
because of a prospective revocation under section 9(3)(b) does not
cease to be covered by the grandfathering arrangements even if the
EV charger is altered or modified, so long as the alteration or
modification is with the prior approval of the LTA under this section
for the alteration or modification.

Alteration-approved labels

 13.—(1) Upon granting to any person an approval under section 12
to alter or modify an EV charger, the LTA must make available to the
person, on payment by the person of a fee (if prescribed), an
alteration‑approved label —

       (a) which signifies the grant of that approval; and

       (b) which is to be affixed to the EV charger altered or modified
            which the person intends to supply, install, certify or
            charge with in Singapore.

 (2) The person granted approval under section 12 to alter or modify
an EV charger must take all reasonably practicable steps to ensure
that an alteration‑approved label made available by the LTA under
subsection (1) —

       (a) is affixed only to each altered or modified EV charger that
            the person intends to supply, install, certify or charge with
            before the EV charger is first supplied, installed, certified
            or charged with by the person in Singapore;

       (b) is not affixed to an EV charger which is not altered or
            modified, or is not altered or modified according to the
            terms of the approval under section 12; and

       (c) is affixed to the relevant EV charger in accordance with the
            manner prescribed.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
26  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 6 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,500; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $5,000.

           Division 3 — Advertising supply of EV chargers

Interpretation of this Division

 14. In this Division —

      “access”, in relation to any advertisement on the Internet, means
         to read, view, hear or otherwise experience the content of the
         advertisement, by means of a broadcasting service or an
         electronic service, and includes —

              (a) access that is subject to a precondition, such as the
                   use of a password;

              (b) access by way of push technology;

              (c) access by way of a standing request; and

              (d) access for a limited period of time only;

      “non‑approved EV charger” means an EV charger —

              (a) that belongs to a model that is not a homologated
                   model;

              (b) that is not a specially authorised EV charger; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               27

              (c) that is not covered by any grandfathering
                   arrangement because of a prospective revocation
                   under section 9(3)(b) of any section 7(3) approval.

Prohibited advertising of non-approved EV charger

 15.—(1) A person must not publish, or cause to be published, or
take part in the publication, in Singapore, of any advertisement —

       (a) containing any express or implied inducement, suggestion
            or request to acquire in Singapore a non‑approved
            EV charger;

       (b) providing a facility for a person who has access to the
            advertisement on the Internet to acquire in Singapore a
            non‑approved EV charger; or

       (c) relating to a non‑approved EV charger in terms which are
            calculated, expressly or impliedly, to lead to, induce, urge,
            promote or encourage the acquisition in Singapore of the
            non‑approved EV charger.

 (2) In this section, an advertisement that is published electronically
is treated as published in Singapore if —

       (a) the advertisement originates in Singapore, even if none of
            the persons capable of having access to the advertisement
            is physically present in Singapore; or

       (b) all of the following apply in respect of the advertisement:

               (i) the advertisement did not originate in Singapore, or
                   the advertisement’s origin cannot be determined;

              (ii) the advertisement is published or caused to be
                   published by a Singapore‑connected person or the
                   Singapore‑connected person takes part in that
                   publication;

             (iii) the advertisement is accessible by persons physically
                   present in Singapore.

 (3) A person who is, in the course of business, selling or offering or
exposing for sale, any EV charger in any place, must not display or
cause to be displayed any non‑approved EV charger in the place —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
28  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (a) when so selling, or offering or exposing for sale, any EV
            charger; and

       (b) knowing that, or reckless as to whether, it is a
            non‑approved EV charger.

 (4) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which the
offence continues after conviction.

 (5) In this section —

      “sale” means sale by wholesale or retail and includes —

              (a) sale under a conditional sale agreement or a
                   hire‑purchase agreement as defined by the
                   Hire‑Purchase Act 1969; and

              (b) resale;

      “Singapore‑connected person” means —

              (a) a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore;

              (b) an individual in Singapore;

              (c) a company or other body corporate incorporated in,
                   or having its central management and control in,
                   Singapore; or

              (d) an unincorporated body established in Singapore,

         and includes any person or persons constituting or
         responsible for the management of a person in
         paragraph (c) or (d).

Defences

 16. In any proceedings for an offence under section 15(1), it is a
defence for the person charged to prove that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               29

       (a) the person —

               (i) is a person whose business is to publish or arrange
                   for the publication of advertisements and that the
                   person received the advertisement for publication in
                   the ordinary course of business; and

              (ii) did not know and had no reason to suspect that the
                   advertisement would contravene the provisions of
                   section 15(1); or

       (b) the advertisement is published for the sole purpose of
            destroying or exporting the non‑approved EV charger.

Corrective measures for unlawful advertisement

 17.—(1) Where an authorised officer, after receiving a complaint or
on the authorised officer’s initiative, is satisfied that an advertisement
has been published, or caused to be published, in contravention of
section 15(1), the authorised officer may, after having regard to the
matters mentioned in subsection (4), order the person whom the
authorised officer reasonably suspects to have published, or caused to
be published, the advertisement to do all or any of the following
within the time specified in that order:

       (a) to stop any further publication of the advertisement with
            immediate effect;

       (b) to take such measures as may be reasonable and necessary
            in the circumstances to disable access by end‑users in
            Singapore to the advertisement if published on the Internet;

       (c) to publish a corrective advertisement in such manner and
            containing such information as may be specified by the
            LTA.

 (2) The person to whom an order under subsection (1) is directed
must bear the costs and expenses arising from the taking of any
measure that is required of the person under the order.

 (3) If a person to whom an order under subsection (1) is directed
fails to comply with the order, the person shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both and, in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
30  NO. 43 OF 2022

the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $250
for every day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (4) Before ordering a person under subsection (1) with respect to an
advertisement on the Internet, an authorised officer must have regard,
and give such weight as the authorised officer considers appropriate,
to all of the following matters:

       (a) whether, having regard to the content of the advertisement
            and the way the EV charger is advertised or promoted, the
            primary purpose of the advertisement advocates or
            encourages others, or is used by others, to commit an
            offence under this Act;

       (b) whether the advertisement is accessible by end‑users in
            Singapore;

       (c) the volume of viewers accessing the advertisement who are
            or are likely to be end‑users in Singapore;

       (d) the technical feasibility of complying with the order.

 (5) To avoid doubt, an authorised officer is not confined to
consideration of matters specified in subsection (4) and may take
into account such other matters and evidence as may be relevant.

                                    PART 3
             REGISTRATION OF EV CHARGERS AND
              REGISTERED RESPONSIBLE PERSONS

                   Division 1 — Offences on charging
Unlawful charging with unregistered EV charger

 18.—(1) A person commits an offence if —
       (a) the person charges an electric vehicle using an EV charger;
       (b) the EV charger is an unregistered EV charger; and
       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the EV
            charger is an unregistered EV charger.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               31

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person allows an electric vehicle to be charged using an
            EV charger;

       (b) the EV charger is an unregistered EV charger; and

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the EV
            charger is an unregistered EV charger.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000.

 (4) To avoid doubt, it is immaterial whether the person is a licensee.

          Division 2 — Registered-for-charging EV chargers

Registration of EV charger

 19.—(1) A person who has charge and control of an EV charger
must apply to the LTA to register the EV charger before the EV
charger is first used, or allowed to be first used, by any person to
charge any electric vehicle in Singapore.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) to register an EV charger
must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner prescribed or, if not so
            prescribed, as required by the LTA; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
32  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (b) be accompanied by —

               (i) the prescribed information and documents and any
                   additional information or documents that the LTA
                   may require to decide the application; and

              (ii) the prescribed fee, if any.

 (3) After considering any application under subsection (1) to
register an EV charger, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of the applicable registration fee (if
            prescribed), register the EV charger as a
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger; or

       (b) refuse to so register the EV charger.

 (4) The LTA may refuse to register an EV charger which is the
subject of an application under subsection (1) if —

       (a) the EV charger is not lawfully certified as fit for charging
            any electric vehicle in Singapore under section 23;

       (b) the EV charger, being a fixed EV charger, is not lawfully
            installed in accordance with section 24; or

       (c) the application contains any false or misleading
            information.

Registration marks and registered responsible person

 20.—(1) On registering an EV charger as a registered‑for‑charging
EV charger, the LTA must —

       (a) assign a registration code to the EV charger;

       (b) register a person as a registered responsible person for the
            EV charger; and

       (c) assign the registered responsible person a registration mark
            showing that registration code.

 (2) The registered responsible person for a registered‑for‑charging
EV charger must ensure that any registration mark issued by the LTA
under subsection (1)(c) for the registered‑for‑charging EV charger is
affixed on that EV charger in the prescribed manner within 60 days

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               33

after the registration date or another longer period prescribed in
substitution.

 (3) A registered responsible person for a registered‑for‑charging
EV charger who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) commits an offence.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 6 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,500; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $5,000.

Cancellation of registration

 21.—(1) The LTA may cancel the registration of a
registered‑for‑charging EV charger if —

       (a) the LTA is satisfied that the registered‑for‑charging
            EV charger —

               (i) has been or will, within the prescribed period, be
                   destroyed or removed from Singapore;

              (ii) has become unfit for use as an EV charger;

             (iii) has been forfeited under this Act or any other written
                   law; or

             (iv) has been lost through theft or criminal breach of trust
                   and the prescribed period after the loss has lapsed;

       (b) the LTA becomes aware of a circumstance that would have
            required or permitted the LTA to refuse to register the EV

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
34  NO. 43 OF 2022

            charger, had it been aware of the circumstance
            immediately before registering the EV charger;

       (c) the EV charger is not lawfully certified as fit for charging
            any electric vehicle in Singapore as required under
            section 25(1);

       (d) the registered responsible person for the
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger applies for the
            registration of the EV charger to be cancelled; or

       (e) the LTA is satisfied that a condition of registration of the
            EV charger has been contravened or is being contravened.

 (2) Where the registration of a registered‑for‑charging EV charger
is cancelled under subsection (1), the registered responsible person
for the EV charger must ensure that any registration mark issued by
the LTA under section 20(1)(c) is removed from the EV charger
within 30 days after the LTA informs the registered responsible
person of the cancellation.

 (3) A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) commits an offence.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

Register of registered-for-charging EV chargers

 22.—(1) Subject to this section, the LTA must establish and
maintain a register of registered‑for‑charging EV chargers in
accordance with the Regulations.

 (2) The register of registered‑for‑charging EV chargers must
contain —

       (a) the current prescribed information about each
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger, and its registered
            responsible person; and

       (b) such other prescribed information relating to the
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger.

 (3) However, the register of registered‑for‑charging EV chargers
does not provide evidence of title to any EV charger.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               35

 (4) Despite section 41 of the Land Transport Authority of
Singapore Act 1995, a person who is or has been a member, an
officer, an employee or an agent of the LTA or a member of a
committee of the LTA must not disclose any information contained in
the register of registered‑for‑charging EV chargers except —

       (a) when lawfully required to do so by any court;

       (b) where allowed under subsection (5);

       (c) where the information is prescribed information when it is
            disclosed; or

       (d) where required or allowed by the provisions of any other
            Act.

 (5) The LTA may, upon application made to it in writing by a person
and on payment of the prescribed fee (if any), do any one or more of
the following things as are required in the application:

       (a) inform the applicant (or the applicant’s authorised agent)
            whether an EV charger is registered as a
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger and whether the
            registration of a registered‑for‑charging EV charger is
            cancelled;

       (b) provide an applicant who belongs to a prescribed class of
            persons (or such an applicant’s authorised agent) all or any
            of the following:

               (i) information about the identity of the registered
                   responsible person for a registered‑for‑charging EV
                   charger;

              (ii) an extract of any entry in the register of
                   registered‑for‑charging EV chargers relating to a
                   particular registered‑for‑charging EV charger;

             (iii) the registration code of a particular
                   registered‑for‑charging EV charger and other
                   particulars in the register of registered‑for‑charging
                   EV chargers relating to that particular EV charger;

       (c) certify to an applicant mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) (or
            such an applicant’s authorised agent), the information in

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
36  NO. 43 OF 2022

    paragraph (a) or (b) applied for as at the date of the
    certificate.

      Division 3 — Certification and installation of EV charger

Improper certification of EV charger

 23.—(1) An individual must not certify an EV charger as fit for
charging any electric vehicle in Singapore knowing that, or reckless
as to whether, the EV charger is an EV charger —

       (a) that belongs to a model that is not a homologated model;
            and

       (b) that is not covered by any grandfathering arrangement
            because of a prospective revocation under section 9(3)(b)
            of any section 7(3) approval.

 (2) A person must not cause an individual to certify an EV charger
as fit for charging any electric vehicle in Singapore knowing that, or
reckless as to whether, the EV charger is an EV charger —

       (a) that belongs to a model that is not a homologated model;
            and

       (b) that is not covered by any grandfathering arrangement
            because of a prospective revocation under section 9(3)(b)
            of any section 7(3) approval.

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 24 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000; but

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               37

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $40,000.

 (4) An individual must not certify an EV charger as fit for charging
any electric vehicle in Singapore unless the individual —

       (a) is a prescribed competent person for that charger; or

       (b) is certifying the EV charger together with a prescribed
            competent person for that charger.

 (5) An individual who contravenes subsection (4) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (6) An individual must not certify any particular EV charger as fit
for charging any electric vehicle in Singapore unless the individual is
satisfied that —

       (a) in the case of a fixed EV charger, it is installed —

               (i) following the prescribed procedure and standard; and

              (ii) together with the essential apparatus or essential
                   fittings or both which are prescribed in the
                   Regulations; or

       (b) in the case of an EV charger that is not a fixed EV charger,
            it satisfies the safety and performance standards prescribed
            for a homologated model to which that EV charger
            belongs.

 (7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

Improper installation of fixed EV charger

 24.—(1) A person must not install, or cause to be installed, a fixed
EV charger in any place in Singapore knowing that, or reckless as to
whether, the EV charger is an EV charger —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
38  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (a) that belongs to a model that is not a homologated model;
            and

       (b) that is not covered by any grandfathering arrangement
            because of a prospective revocation under section 9(3)(b)
            of any section 7(3) approval.

 (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 48 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $40,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $80,000.

 (3) An individual must not undertake any work installing a fixed
EV charger in Singapore unless the individual —

       (a) is a prescribed person; or

       (b) is carrying out the work under the direct supervision of a
            prescribed person.

 (4) An individual who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

         Division 4 — Registered responsible persons’ duties
Periodic inspection of EV charger

 25.—(1) The registered responsible person for an EV charger —
       (a) must cause the EV charger to be periodically inspected and
            certified in accordance with this section by a prescribed

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               39

            competent person to ensure its continued fitness for
            charging any electric vehicle in Singapore; and

       (b) must produce to the LTA upon the LTA’s written
            demand —

               (i) a certificate by the prescribed competent person
                   prepared under subsection (3)(b)(i); or

              (ii) a copy of the report of the inspection by the
                   prescribed competent person prepared under
                   subsection (3)(b)(ii).

 (2) An inspection required by this section of an EV charger must be
carried out at the following frequency:

       (a) after the end of a prescribed period (in months) starting the
            date the first lawful certification was made under
            section 23 in respect of the EV charger as fit for
            charging any electric vehicle in Singapore;

       (b) thereafter, at intervals of not less than a prescribed period
            (in months) starting the date of the last certificate under
            this section.

 (3) An individual who is a prescribed competent person carrying
out an inspection of an EV charger required by this section must —

       (a) carry out the inspection following the prescribed procedure
            and standard;

       (b) on completing the inspection —

               (i) certify the EV charger as continuing to be fit for
                   charging any electric vehicle in Singapore; or

              (ii) prepare, in such form as the LTA may specify, a
                   report on the results of the inspection mentioned in
                   paragraph (a) and the assessment of the condition of
                   the EV charger inspected; and

       (c) give a copy of the certificate or report mentioned in
            paragraph (b) to a registered responsible person for the EV
            charger without delay, and in any case, to enable the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
40  NO. 43 OF 2022

            registered responsible person to comply with
            subsection (1).

 (4) A registered responsible person who, without reasonable
excuse, fails to comply with subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (5) An individual who is a prescribed competent person who,
without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with subsection (3) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Keeping of records

 26.—(1) The registered responsible person for a
registered‑for‑charging EV charger must keep and retain, for
inspection by an authorised officer, every certificate as to the
fitness of the EV charger under sections 23 and 25(3)(b)(i),
respectively, for a period of at least 2 years starting the date the
certificate is made.

 (2) A registered responsible person who is subject to a requirement
under subsection (1) to keep and retain any certificate commits an
offence if the registered responsible person —

       (a) intentionally or negligently contravenes the requirement
            under subsection (1) to keep and retain; or

       (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any certificate
            which the registered responsible person is required under
            subsection (1) to keep and retain.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Duty of registered responsible person who is transferor

 27.—(1) A registered responsible person for a
registered‑for‑charging EV charger who disposes of, or transfers
immediate possession of otherwise than temporarily, (called the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               41

transferor) to another person (called the transferee) the
registered‑for‑charging EV charger must, within a prescribed
period after disposing or transferring possession of the EV charger,
apply in the manner prescribed to transfer the registration of the
registered responsible person for that registered‑for‑charging EV
charger to the transferee.

 (2) A registered responsible person for a registered‑for‑charging
EV charger commits an offence if the person —

       (a) disposes, or transfers immediate possession otherwise than
            temporarily, of the registered‑for‑charging EV charger to
            another; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
            subsection (1) in relation to the registered‑for‑charging
            EV charger.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 3 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $2,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 6 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $2,500; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $5,000.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not apply to the passing of
possession of a registered‑for‑charging EV charger —

       (a) under any hiring (not being a hiring under a hire‑purchase
            agreement) or under any lending of a
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger;

       (b) to an agent for the purpose of sale or destruction;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
42  NO. 43 OF 2022

    (c) to a bailee for the purpose of alteration, repair, renovation,
         garaging, storing or any other similar purpose not
         involving the use of the registered‑for‑charging EV
         charger for the benefit of the bailee;

    (d) in accordance with an order of a court or with any other
         legal process; or

    (e) in other prescribed circumstances.

                                    PART 4

            SPECIALLY AUTHORISED EV CHARGERS

Rules for trials and special uses

 28.—(1) For the purpose of enabling or facilitating the
development and operation of innovative and accessible EV
chargers and EV charging services which contribute to the mobility
and safety of people in Singapore, and of improving the
environmental performance of the road transport sector in
Singapore, the Minister may make rules under this Part that allow —

       (a) any trial of special types of EV chargers; or

       (b) any special use involving charging of electric vehicles
            using special types of EV chargers,

even though these EV chargers are neither of a homologated model
nor a registered‑for‑charging EV charger.

 (2) Rules made under this Part may, for a fixed period (not
exceeding 5 years) specified in the rules or a specified area in
Singapore or both, provide for the application of specified provisions
of this Act or its subsidiary legislation affecting —

       (a) the specified person authorised to undertake the trial or
            carry out the special use;

       (b) any other person or class of persons participating in the
            trial or carrying out the special use; or

       (c) any EV charger used in that trial or special use,

with prescribed exceptions, modifications and adaptations.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               43

(3) In particular, rules made under this Part may —

      (a) prescribe the information and documents required for an
           application to the LTA for authorisation to carry out a trial
           or special use mentioned in subsection (1);

      (b) provide for the grant of an authorisation by the LTA to a
           person to carry out such a trial or special use;

      (c) require the specified person to do all or any of the
           following:

             (i) to have in place liability insurance before the trial or
                  special use starts, and to ensure that it is in force at all
                  times during the period of the trial or special use;

            (ii) to deposit with the LTA a security of a type, and of an
                  amount not lower than an amount, prescribed in
                  those rules, to secure compliance with the conditions
                  of authorisation;

            (iii) to remove, at the specified person’s own cost, any
                  fixed EV charger installed in any place in Singapore
                  when the trial or special use ends;

      (d) prescribe the alternative safety and performance standards
           for a specified model of EV charger used or to be used in
           the trial or special use;

      (e) prescribe the construction, design or use of —

             (i) technology, equipment or devices in relation to the
                  EV chargers involved in the trial or special use; and

            (ii) any equipment or other thing that the specified
                  person intends to construct or install in the vicinity of
                  each EV charger;

      (f) prescribe the maintenance and inspection requirements to
           be met by the specified person in relation to specified EV
           chargers involved in the trial or special use;

      (g) prescribe the measures to be taken by the specified person
           for the purposes of managing or mitigating the risks of the
           trial or special use, including submitting a safety proposal

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
44  NO. 43 OF 2022

         for the LTA’s approval and implementing the safety
         proposal;

    (h) require the specified person to provide an incident report to
         the LTA in accordance with the prescribed guidelines and
         within the prescribed period, in the event of a prescribed
         incident;

     (i) require the keeping of records by the specified person, and
         the giving of information to the LTA or any other person
         designated by the LTA about the trial or special use carried
         out;

     (j) prescribe the persons or class of persons whom the
         specified person may engage in carrying out the trial or
         special use;

    (k) limit the number of specified EV chargers involved in the
         trial or special use;

     (l) prescribe the area or areas of Singapore in which a trial or
         special use may be carried out;

    (m) prescribe the period during which a trial or special use may
         be carried out;

    (n) prescribe the premises or types of premises where a trial or
         special use may or may not be carried out, as the case may
         be;

    (o) provide the grounds under which any authorisation granted
         under the rules to carry out a trial or special use may be
         cancelled in whole or in part, or suspended in whole or in
         part;

    (p) provide for a right to appeal to the Minister (whose
         decision on appeal is final) against any decision made by
         the LTA under the rules, and the procedure for those
         appeals;

    (q) prescribe the fees in relation to applications or requests to,
         or the doing of anything by, the LTA under the rules made
         under this section;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               45

       (r) provide that any contravention of any provision of the rules
            made under this section shall be an offence punishable with
            a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

       (s) prescribe any saving and transitional provisions that may
            be necessary or expedient.

 (4) In making any rules under this Part for a trial or special use, the
Minister must take reasonable steps to prevent information that —

       (a) is commercially sensitive in nature; and

       (b) is the subject of a request to the Minister by a person
            connected with the trial or special use, or the proposed trial
            or special use, for the information to be kept confidential,

from being published or otherwise made public.

                                    PART 5

                      SAFETY OF EV CHARGERS

                           Division 1 — Offences

Improper use of EV chargers

 29.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person uses an EV charger for a purpose;

       (b) the purpose is other than a prescribed permissible purpose
            for that use and type of EV charger; and

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            purpose is not a prescribed permissible purpose for that use
            and type of EV charger.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
46  NO. 43 OF 2022

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000.

 (3) To avoid doubt, this section does not derogate from section 18.

Improper charging

 30.—(1) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person uses, or allows to be used, an EV charger to
            charge an electric vehicle at any place in Singapore;

       (b) the place is prescribed as a banned location for that type of
            EV charger; and

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the
            place is a banned location for that type of EV charger.

 (2) A person commits an offence if —

       (a) the person uses, or allows to be used, an EV charger to
            charge an electric vehicle in a certain way or in certain
            circumstances;

       (b) the way is not, or those circumstances are not, a way or
            circumstance prescribed as permissible for that type of EV
            charger; and

       (c) the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, that way
            or those circumstances is or are not prescribed as
            permissible for that type of EV charger.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               47

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to a person —

       (a) whose business is —

               (i) to repair an EV charger; or

              (ii) to determine whether an EV charger complies with
                   the safety and performance standards prescribed to
                   be a homologated model; and

       (b) who uses the EV charger for the sole purpose of —

               (i) determining, in the person’s ordinary course of
                   business, whether the EV charger complies with
                   the safety and performance standards prescribed to
                   be a homologated model; or

              (ii) repairing the EV charger in the person’s ordinary
                   course of business.

 (5) To avoid doubt, this section does not derogate from section 18.

Tampering with EV charger, etc.

 31.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person wilfully
tampers with an EV charger or any thing else related to an EV charger
so as to cause or to be likely to cause danger to human life or damage
to any property.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person, by rash or negligent
act or omission committed or omitted in respect of any EV charger,
causes hurt to any person or damage to any property.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
48  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Unauthorised removal, defacement, etc., of labels and marks

 32.—(1) An individual commits an offence if he or she, without
reasonable excuse, defaces, obliterates or removes any of the
following when it is lawfully affixed to an EV charger:

       (a) any approval label made available by the LTA under
            section 8(1)(b);

       (b) any alteration‑approved label made available by the LTA
            under section 13(1);

       (c) any registration mark issued by the LTA under
            section 20(1)(c) for a registered‑for‑charging EV charger.

 (2) An individual who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

       (b) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine not
            exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 12 months or to both.

 (3) A person commits an offence if the person, without reasonable
excuse, causes an individual to deface, obliterate or remove any of the
following when it is lawfully affixed to an EV charger:

       (a) any approval label made available by the LTA under
            section 8(1)(b);

       (b) any alteration‑approved label made available by the LTA
            under section 13(1);

       (c) any registration mark issued by the LTA under
            section 20(1)(c) for a registered‑for‑charging EV charger.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) shall
be liable on conviction —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               49

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for
                   a term not exceeding 6 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 12 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $20,000.

Counterfeiting labels and marks

 33.—(1) A person who counterfeits —

       (a) any approval label made available by the LTA under
            section 8(1)(b);

       (b) any alteration‑approved label made available by the LTA
            under section 13(1); or

       (c) any registration mark issued by the LTA under
            section 20(1)(c) for a registered‑for‑charging EV charger,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

 (2) A person who —

       (a) makes a sign identical to or so nearly resembling a label or
            mark mentioned in subsection (1) as to be calculated to
            deceive; or

       (b) falsifies a genuine label or mark mentioned in
            subsection (1), whether by alteration, addition,
            effacement, partial removal or otherwise,

is deemed to counterfeit a label or mark mentioned in subsection (1).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
50  NO. 43 OF 2022

                       Division 2 — Product defects

Interpretation of this Division

 34. In this Division —

      “safety‑related defect”, in relation to an EV charger, means a
         feature of the design or construction of the EV charger that is
         liable to cause serious damage to property or significant risk
         of personal injury or death to any person, and includes any
         defect relating to a component of the EV charger that is
         supplied with the EV charger as original equipment;

      “supplier” means a person who is engaged in the business of
         supplying EV chargers.

Duty to notify safety-related defect in EV chargers

 35.—(1) Where a manufacturer or supplier of an EV charger
becomes aware of any safety‑related defect in the EV charger or
model of that EV charger, it is the duty of the manufacturer or
supplier (as the case may be) to give, within the time prescribed,
notice about the safety‑related defect as described in subsection (2)
to —

       (a) the LTA;

       (b) every registered responsible person for a
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger that is of the same
            model; and

       (c) every person having charge and control of an EV charger
            that is of the same model, if the EV charger is an
            unregistered charger.

 (2) A notice required to be given under subsection (1) with respect
to an EV charger must contain —

       (a) a description of the safety‑related defect in the EV charger;

       (b) an evaluation of the safety risk arising from that defect;

       (c) the directions on how to rectify the defect or how to
            arrange for the manufacturer or supplier giving the notice

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               51

            to rectify the safety‑related defect in the EV charger (called
            rectification work); and

       (d) a warning —

               (i) to stop charging, or to stop allowing charging, of any
                   electric vehicle with the EV charger;

              (ii) to not supply or otherwise transfer possession of the
                   EV charger to anyone else;

             (iii) to not install or to not allow installing of the EV
                   charger; and

             (iv) to not certify or to not allow certifying of the EV
                   charger,

       (d) before the rectification work mentioned in paragraph (c)
            concerning the EV charger has been completed.

 (3) A notice required to be given under subsection (1) that is
addressed to a person is sufficiently served if it is —

       (a) given in the manner prescribed in section 93; or

       (b) for a notice that is addressed to a class of persons —

               (i) given to each of the persons in the class in
                   accordance with section 93; or

              (ii) published both —

                    (A) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore
                          or in any other news media that, in the opinion
                          of the LTA, will be most likely to bring the
                          notice to the attention of the persons who
                          belong to the class; and

                     (B) on the LTA’s website.

 (4) A manufacturer or supplier of an EV charger who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the requirements of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
52  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (5) A manufacturer or supplier of an EV charger who gives a notice
under subsection (1) about a safety‑related defect in the EV charger
must, within the prescribed time, report to the LTA the completion of
every rectification work mentioned in the notice under
subsection (2)(c).

 (6) A manufacturer or supplier of an EV charger who, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the requirements of
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Duty to observe warning in section 35 notice

 36.—(1) A person in section 35(1)(b) or (c) to whom a notice under
section 35(1) is given about a safety‑related defect in an EV charger,
or a model of EV charger, commits an offence if the person, without
reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the warning contained in that
notice.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000 for each EV
charger in respect of which the offence is committed, subject to a
maximum of $20,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

Safety and security directives

 37.—(1) The LTA may, on its own initiative or otherwise, and in
accordance with subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), give such safety and
security directives of general application as may be necessary —

       (a) to avoid any actual or imminent occurrence of death of, or
            a serious injury to, any individual, or of serious damage to
            any property, from the use of any EV charger; or

       (b) to alleviate or minimise a serious and imminent threat or
            risk to the national security of Singapore.

 (2) The LTA may give a safety and security directive made under
this section to all or any of the following, individually or as a class:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               53

       (a) a manufacturer or supplier of an EV charger;

       (b) a registered responsible person for a
            registered‑for‑charging EV charger;

       (c) a person who has charge and control of an unregistered EV
            charger;

       (d) a licensee.

 (3) In making a safety and security directive under this section, it is
not necessary for the LTA to give any person who may be affected by
the directive a chance to be heard before the directive is given.

 (4) A safety and security directive may be in force for a period not
exceeding 6 months unless earlier revoked under subsection (5), and
may be renewed by the LTA once only for a further period not
exceeding 6 months.

 (5) The LTA may, at any time when any safety and security
directive is in force, revoke the safety and security directive by giving
notice of that revocation in the same manner as the directive was
given.

 (6) So far as any safety and security directive is inconsistent with
any Regulations, the safety and security directive prevails.

How safety and security directive is given

 38.—(1) A safety and security directive is binding on the person or
class of persons to whom it is addressed and given.

 (2) A safety and security directive that is addressed to a person is
sufficiently given if it is served in the manner prescribed in
section 93.

 (3) A safety and security directive that is addressed to a class of
persons is sufficiently given if it is —

       (a) served on each of the persons in the class and in the manner
            prescribed in section 93; or

       (b) published both —

               (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
                   any other news media that, in the opinion of the LTA,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
54  NO. 43 OF 2022

                   will be most likely to bring the directive to the
                   attention of the persons who belong to the class; and

              (ii) on the LTA’s official website.

 (4) Once such a safety and security directive is made and given
under this section, the LTA must also publish the making of the
directive in a manner that the LTA thinks will secure adequate
publicity for the fact of making and giving of the safety and security
directive.

 (5) However, failure to publish a safety and security directive under
subsection (4) does not invalidate the directive.

 (6) A safety and security directive that is given —

       (a) in accordance with subsection (2) takes effect when it is
            served;

       (b) in accordance with subsection (3)(a) takes effect when it is
            served on all the persons in the class in question; and

       (c) in accordance with subsection (3)(b) takes effect at the
            beginning of the day after the date on which
            subsection (3)(b) has been complied with.

General duty to comply with safety and security directives

 39.—(1) A safety and security directive may require the person it
binds (according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain
from doing, for a specified period, things specified in the directive or
things that are of a description specified in the directive, including —

       (a) stop the supply of the EV charger;

       (b) stop charging any electric vehicle using the EV charger;

       (c) prevent charging of any electric vehicle using the EV
            charger by any other person;

       (d) remove the fixed EV charger from an electrical installation
            it is affixed to;

       (e) stop providing EV charging services using the EV charger;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               55

        (f) stop undertaking any other regulated activity using the
            EV charger.

 (2) A person to whom a safety and security directive is given and
who is required by the directive to do, or to refrain from doing, for a
specified period, things specified in the directive or things that are of
a description specified in the directive, commits an offence if the
person intentionally or negligently fails to comply with the directive.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment
                   for a term not exceeding 24 months or to both; but

              (ii) where the individual is a repeat offender — to a fine
                   not exceeding $40,000 or to imprisonment for a term
                   not exceeding 48 months or to both; or

       (b) where the person is not an individual —

               (i) to a fine not exceeding $40,000; but

              (ii) where the person is a repeat offender — to a fine not
                   exceeding $80,000.

                                    PART 6

                                 LICENSING

                            Division 1 — General

Interpretation of this Part

 40. In this Part —

      “customer” means the driver of an electric vehicle to whom EV
         charging services are provided, and includes a prospective
         customer;

      “modification” or “modify”, in relation to the conditions of a
         licence, includes deleting or varying and substituting a
         condition, and adding a condition;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
56  NO. 43 OF 2022

      “partial suspension” or “partially suspend”, in relation to a
         licence for a regulated activity, means suspension under
         section 53 of the licence in respect of some but not all of the
         types of EV chargers authorised by the licence for use when
         undertaking the regulated activity;

      “premises” means a building or structure (whether permanent or
         temporary) or part of such a building or structure, and
         includes any immediately adjoining space or land necessary
         for access to, or the enjoyment of occupants of, the building
         or structure.

Unauthorised regulated activity

 41.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person undertakes any
regulated activity using a type of EV charger (except for a specially
authorised EV charger) when the person —

       (a) is not authorised to do so by a licence; and

       (b) is not exempt from this section under section 92.

 (2) The offence under subsection (1) is a strict liability offence.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) where the person is an individual — to a fine not exceeding
            $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            6 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $250 for every day or part of
            a day during which the offence continues after conviction;
            or

       (b) where the person is not an individual — to a fine not
            exceeding $30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
            to a further fine not exceeding $500 for every day or part of
            a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               57

                           Division 2 — Licences

Application for or to renew licence

 42.—(1) An application for or to renew a licence must be made to
the LTA in accordance with this section.

 (2) An application for or to renew a licence must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner prescribed or, if not so
            prescribed, as required by the LTA;

       (b) be accompanied by a prescribed application fee, if any;

       (c) contain —

               (i) an address in Singapore at which notices and other
                   documents under this Act for the applicant may be
                   served; or

              (ii) the name and address of one or more persons in
                   Singapore authorised by the applicant to accept on
                   the applicant’s behalf service of notices and other
                   documents under this Act;

       (d) state the type or types of EV chargers to be used in the
            regulated activity to be covered in the licence; and

       (e) be accompanied by the prescribed information and
            documents and any other additional information or
            documents that the LTA requires to decide the application.

 (3) In addition, an application to renew a licence must be made no
later than a prescribed period before the date of expiry of the licence,
unless otherwise allowed by the LTA in any particular case which
must then be treated as a late renewal application.

 (4) The LTA may refuse to consider an application for or to renew a
licence —

       (a) that is incomplete or not made in accordance with this
            section; or

       (b) where an inspection mentioned in subsection (5) in relation
            to the application is refused.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
58  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (5) Upon receiving an application for or to renew a licence, the LTA
may carry out, or arrange to be carried out by any authorised officer,
such investigations and inquiries in relation to the application as the
LTA considers necessary for a proper consideration of the
application, which may include an inspection of one or more of the
following:

       (a) the place or premises on or at which the applicant intends
            to do any of the following:

               (i) to provide the EV charging service in the application;

              (ii) to undertake any other regulated activity in the
                   application;

             (iii) to install any fixed EV charger or carry out any
                   activity in connection with the provision of that EV
                   charging service or undertaking that regulated
                   activity;

       (b) any part of an EV charger which the applicant intends to
            use in undertaking the regulated activity in the application;

       (c) any equipment or other thing which the applicant intends to
            construct or install in the vicinity of the EV charger in
            paragraph (b) for or in connection with undertaking the
            regulated activity in the application.

Grant of licence

 43.—(1) After considering any application under section 42 for or
to renew a licence, the LTA may —

       (a) on payment of —

               (i) the applicable licence fee (if prescribed), grant the
                   applicant a licence authorising the applicant to
                   undertake a regulated activity using one or more
                   types of EV chargers specified in the licence; or

              (ii) a renewal fee (if prescribed) and, in the case of a late
                   renewal application a late renewal fee (if prescribed),
                   renew the licence; or

       (b) refuse to grant or renew the licence, as the case may be.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               59

 (2) In deciding whether an applicant should be granted a licence, or
whether the applicant’s licence should be renewed, and the conditions
to impose or modify, the LTA must have regard, and give such weight
as the LTA considers appropriate, to all of the following matters:

       (a) whether the applicant is operating or is intending to operate
            more than one charging station in Singapore;

       (b) the design and safety of the following:

               (i) the EV chargers to be used by the applicant in
                   undertaking the regulated activity in Singapore;

              (ii) any equipment or other thing which the applicant
                   intends to construct or install in the vicinity of each
                   EV charger in sub‑paragraph (i) for or in connection
                   with undertaking the regulated activity in the
                   application;

       (c) whether the applicant does or does not have (or is likely or
            unlikely to have) the financial capacity and ability to
            provide the EV charging service in the application
            according to this Act and the applicable standards of
            performance;

       (d) whether the applicant is a corporation, partnership, limited
            liability partnership or an unincorporated association;

       (e) whether the applicant and where necessary, whether every
            officer of the applicant is a suitable person to be involved
            in the management and operation of providing the EV
            charging service in the application;

        (f) whether the applicant has nominated or will nominate at
            least one individual who satisfies the prescribed
            qualifications as a representative if a licence is granted;

       (g) whether the applicant had provided, or caused or permitted
            to be provided, any information in connection with the
            application, which was false or misleading in a material
            particular;

       (h) whether it is otherwise contrary to the public interest for
            the licence to be granted to the applicant.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
60  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (3) For the purpose of determining whether or not a person or an
individual referred to in subsection (2)(e) is a suitable person to be
involved in the management and operation of providing an EV
charging service, the LTA must have regard, and give such weight as
the LTA considers appropriate, to all of the following matters:

       (a) any evidence of the exercise of any power under section 53
            or 54 —

               (i) in relation to the person or individual for committing
                   an offence under this Act, or for contravening any
                   direction given under this Act, whether or not that
                   person or individual was a part of the applicant at the
                   point in time that the power was exercised; or

              (ii) in relation to a licensee holding, or a former licensee
                   which held, a licence of which the individual is or
                   was an officer when the power was exercised;

       (b) any prior conviction of that person or individual for
            committing any of the following offences:

               (i) any offence under this Act;

              (ii) any offence under any other written law, involving
                   undertaking a regulated activity in Singapore;

             (iii) any other offence involving fraud or dishonesty,
                   whether or not the conviction was in a Singapore
                   court;

       (c) any previous occasion where the person or individual
            accepted any composition sum offered under any written
            law for an offence mentioned in paragraph (b).

 (4) To avoid doubt, the LTA is not confined to consideration of the
matters specified in subsection (2) or (3) and may take into account
any other matters and evidence that may be relevant.

 (5) Without affecting subsection (1), the LTA may grant a renewal
of a licence with or without modifying the conditions of the licence,
but section 46(2), (3) and (4) does not apply to or in relation to
granting a renewal of a licence with modifications to the conditions of
the licence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               61

Periodic fee for licence and licence validity

 44.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), every licence granted under this
Part is valid for the period specified in the licence and is in force
unless the licence is earlier suspended or revoked under section 53.

 (2) Where a licence granted under this Part is partially suspended
under section 53, that licence is valid for the period specified in the
licence in relation to undertaking a regulated activity using the types
of EV chargers authorised by the licence that have not been
suspended.

 (3) For every period prescribed (which must not exceed the validity
of a licence), the licensee granted that licence must pay to the LTA,
not later than the date prescribed, a periodic fee prescribed for that
licence.

 (4) If a licensee fails to pay the periodic fee in accordance with
subsection (3), the LTA may, by written notice, require the licensee to
make good the default.

 (5) Every licence must be in the form the LTA determines.

Conditions of licence

 45.—(1) In granting a licence to any person, the LTA may impose
any conditions that the LTA considers requisite or expedient having
regard to the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular, in granting a licence, the LTA may impose
conditions —

       (a) requiring the licensee to undertake the regulated activity in
            the licence using only the type or types of EV chargers that
            the LTA has specified in the licence;

       (b) requiring the licensee to tag any EV charger that is being
            used by the licensee in connection with the regulated
            activity;

       (c) requiring the licensee to operate only EV chargers that can
            be activated to allow a variation in the rate at which
            electricity is transferred from a charging station to the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
62  NO. 43 OF 2022

         battery of an electric vehicle and being able to, on request,
         activate this capability;

    (d) requiring the licensee to operate EV chargers with
         interoperable open communication standards;

    (e) requiring the licensee to ensure that the EV chargers have
         signals or indicators that are able to show that the battery
         connected to the EV charger in question is being charged;

    (f) requiring the licensee to be insured and maintain insurance
         for a prescribed minimum amount for the validity period of
         the licence, under one or more approved policies with an
         insurer within the meaning of the Insurance Act 1966
         against third‑party liabilities for death, personal injury or
         damage to property which a customer or other person may
         sustain or incur in the course of undertaking the regulated
         activity authorised by the licence;

    (g) prohibiting the collection and further collection of deposits
         from users of EV chargers used in the provision of the EV
         charging service covered by the licence;

    (h) requiring the licensee to provide the EV charging service to
         customers using one or more specific modes of payment,
         including the following:

           (i) payment by credit card;

          (ii) payment by way of Singapore Quick Response
                Code;

    (i) requiring the licensee to provide for payment methods that
         do not require a user to register for an account with the
         licensee;

    (j) requiring the licensee to correct EV charging service
         downtime issues within a specified period of time and to
         provide incident reports to the LTA;

    (k) requiring the licensee to provide to the LTA, upon the
         LTA’s request, such financial information about the
         regulated activity undertaken during such period as may
         be specified by the LTA;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               63

        (l) requiring the licensee to comply with specified standards
            or requirements relating to cybersecurity (as defined in
            section 2(1) of the Cybersecurity Act 2018);

      (m) requiring the licensee —

               (i) to appoint, and ensure that at all times there is
                   appointed, one or more persons in Singapore
                   authorised by the licensee to accept on the
                   licensee’s behalf service of notices and other
                   documents under this Act; and

              (ii) to provide the name, address and contact details of
                   the person or persons appointed as required by
                   sub‑paragraph (i); and

       (n) specifying the areas in Singapore within which the licensee
            must not operate a battery charge and swap station if that is
            authorised by the licence.

 (3) In this section, “approved policies” means policies of insurance
each of which is not subject to any conditions, exclusions or
exceptions prohibited by the Regulations.

Modifying conditions of licence

 46.—(1) Subject to this section, it is lawful for the LTA to modify
the conditions of a licence without compensating the licensee
concerned.

 (2) Before modifying any condition of a licence, the LTA must give
notice to the licensee holding that licence —

       (a) stating that the LTA proposes to make the modification in
            the manner as specified in the notice; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 7 days from the date of
            service of notice on the licensee) within which the licensee
            may make written representations to the LTA with respect
            to the proposed modification.

 (3) Upon receiving any written representation referred to in
subsection (2), the LTA must consider that representation and may —

       (a) reject the representation;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
64  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (b) amend the proposed modification of any condition of a
            licence in the manner that the LTA thinks fit having regard
            to the representation; or

       (c) withdraw the proposed modification.

 (4) Where —

       (a) the LTA rejects any written representation under
            subsection (3)(a);

       (b) the LTA amends any proposed modification to any
            condition of a licence under subsection (3)(b); or

       (c) no written representation is received by the LTA within the
            time specified in subsection (2), or any written
            representation made under that subsection is
            subsequently withdrawn,

the LTA must issue a written direction to the licensee in question
requiring the licensee, within the time specified by the LTA, to give
effect to the modification as specified in the notice under
subsection (2) or as amended by the LTA, as the case may be.

Modifying types of EV chargers on licensee’s application

 47.—(1) A licensee may apply to the LTA to modify the types of
EV chargers that the licensee is authorised under its licence to use in
undertaking a regulated activity.

 (2) To avoid doubt, applying to modify the types of EV chargers
means applying to do one or more of the following:

       (a) add one or more types of EV chargers;

       (b) remove one or more types of EV chargers.

 (3) An application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be in the form and manner the LTA determines;

       (b) be accompanied by an application fee, if prescribed; and

       (c) be accompanied by the prescribed information and any
            other additional information that the LTA requires to
            decide on the application.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               65

 (4) However, an application under subsection (1) must be made no
later than 9 months (or such longer or shorter period as may be
prescribed in substitution) before the date of expiry of the licence
concerned.

 (5) The LTA may refuse to consider an application under
subsection (1) where the application is incomplete or not made in
accordance with this section.

 (6) After considering any application under subsection (1), the LTA
may do either of the following:

       (a) on payment of a prescribed fee to modify the types of EV
            chargers under the licence and, where the application
            involves the addition of one or more additional types of EV
            chargers, another prescribed fee, grant the licensee the
            modification applied for and modify any other relevant
            conditions of the licence as a consequence;

       (b) refuse to allow the licensee to modify the EV chargers that
            the licensee is authorised to use in undertaking a regulated
            activity under its licence.

 (7) Section 43(2), (3), (4) and (5) applies, with the necessary
modifications, to every application under subsection (1) as if the
application were an application for or to renew a licence.

 (8) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
under subsection (1) —

       (a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
            information or document in connection with the
            application which is false or misleading in a material
            particular; and

       (b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
            whether, it is false or misleading in a material particular.

 (9) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (8) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
66  NO. 43 OF 2022

Restriction on surrender of licence

 48. Every licence is not capable of being surrendered without the
written consent of the LTA, and any surrender or purported surrender
of a licence is void if it is without such consent.

             Division 3 — Business operation requirements

Record-keeping and giving information

 49.—(1) A licensee authorised to undertake a regulated activity
must —

       (a) keep and retain, for such period as may be prescribed,
            records or data about the regulated activity that is
            prescribed, being relevant to monitoring or evaluating
            the regulated activity for the purposes of this Part
            (including that relating to charger location, charger
            availability, charger utilisation and energy consumption
            rate); and

       (b) give to the LTA (or its agent) within the period and in the
            manner prescribed, those records or data or both.

 (2) A licensee who is subject to a requirement under subsection (1)
commits an offence if the licensee —

       (a) intentionally or negligently contravenes the requirement
            under subsection (1) to keep, retain or give;

       (b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any records or
            data which the person is required under subsection (1) to
            keep, retain or give; or

       (c) who, in keeping, retaining or giving the records or data
            required under subsection (1), makes any statement which
            the person knows to be false in a material particular, or
            recklessly makes such a statement.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               67

 (4) To avoid doubt, it is lawful for any licensee to give to the LTA
any information mentioned in subsection (1) without the LTA
compensating the licensee concerned.

Publication of information on publicly accessible online
platform

 50.—(1) The LTA may publish on a publicly accessible online
platform administered by or under the control of the Government or
any public authority, any data about respective licensees’ charger
location, charger availability, retail price of charging service and
charger utilisation that —

       (a) can be obtained from a publicly available source, including
            any digital application software owned or operated by a
            licensee; or

       (b) can be derived from information obtained from a publicly
            available source, including any digital application software
            owned or operated by a licensee.

 (2) It is lawful for the LTA to publish any information under
subsection (1) without the LTA compensating the licensee concerned.

 (3) Where the LTA provides a service to the public by which
information is supplied to the public under this section, no member,
officer or employee of the LTA involved in the supply of such
information shall be liable for any loss or damage suffered by any
member of the public by reason of any error or omission of any nature
appearing therein or however caused if made in good faith, with
reasonable care and in the ordinary course of the discharge of the
duties of such member, officer or employee.

Standards of performance for licensees

 51.—(1) The LTA may —

       (a) issue one or more standards of performance applicable to
            licensees generally or specially;

       (b) approve as a standard of performance applicable to
            licensees, any document prepared by a person other than

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
68  NO. 43 OF 2022

            the LTA if the LTA considers the document as suitable for
            this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any standard of performance issued under
            paragraph (a) or approved under paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the matters in subsection (2) or (3), as the
case may be.

 (2) The matters for the purposes of subsection (1) include any of the
following:

       (a) performance standards relating to undertaking a regulated
            activity and the quality of aspects of the provision of an EV
            charging service;

       (b) measures to deal with safety and safety incidents and
            accidents involving EV chargers made available by the
            licensee in undertaking a regulated activity, and reporting
            to the LTA those safety incidents and accidents;

       (c) other performance standards relating to undertaking a
            regulated activity.

 (3) A standard of performance may, in particular, specify the duties
and obligations of any licensee in relation to its business operation
insofar as it relates to the provision of EV charging services in
Singapore.

 (4) If any provision in any standard of performance is inconsistent
with any provision of this Act or the Regulations, that provision, to
the extent of the inconsistency —

       (a) is to have effect subject to this Act and the Regulations; or

       (b) having regard to this Act and the Regulations, is not to
            have effect.

 (5) Where a standard of performance is issued, approved, amended
or revoked by the LTA under subsection (1), the LTA must —

       (a) give notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the standard of
            performance to every licensee to whom the standard of
            performance applies;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               69

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
            be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the standard of performance remains
            in force, copies of that standard of performance, and of all
            amendments to that standard of performance, are available
            for inspection (without charge) by the licensees to whom
            the standard of performance applies.

 (6) No standard of performance, no amendment to an approved
standard of performance, and no revocation of any approved standard
of performance, has any force or effect as an approved standard of
performance until the notice relating thereto is given in accordance
with subsection (5).

 (7) A standard of performance issued or approved under this
section does not have legislative effect.

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), every licensee must comply with the
standards of performance applicable to the licensee.

 (9) The LTA may, for such time as the LTA may specify, waive the
application of any standard of performance or part of a standard of
performance, issued or approved under this section to any particular
licensee.

Directions affecting licensees

 52.—(1) The LTA may give a direction to a licensee for or in
respect of —

       (a) the safety of customers and any other person in connection
            with undertaking a regulated activity authorised by the
            licensee’s licence; or

       (b) any matter affecting the interests of the public in
            connection with the regulated activity undertaken by the
            licensee.

 (2) A direction given under subsection (1) —

       (a) may require the licensee concerned (according to the
            circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from doing,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
70  NO. 43 OF 2022

            for a specified period, things specified in the direction or
            things that are of a description specified in the direction,
            including refusing to provide EV charging services in
            respect of any particular customer;

       (b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
            time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the LTA.

 (3) A direction under this section continues in force until the earlier
of the following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date (if any) stated in the direction is reached;

       (b) the LTA revokes the direction.

 (4) Before exercising any powers under subsection (1), the LTA
must, unless the LTA in respect of any particular direction considers
that it is not practicable or desirable, give written notice to the
licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the LTA intends to give a direction to the
            licensee under this section and the nature of the direction;
            and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 7 days after the date of
            service of notice on the licensee) within which written
            representations may be made to the LTA with respect to the
            proposed direction.

 (5) However, subsection (4) does not apply where the LTA, in
respect of any particular direction, considers that it is not practicable
or desirable to comply with that subsection.

 (6) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
made pursuant to subsection (4)(b), decide to give or not to give the
direction as the LTA considers appropriate.

 (7) The LTA must serve on the licensee concerned a notice of its
decision under subsection (6).

 (8) Where the LTA gives written notice to the licensee under
subsection (4) and the licensee fails to make written representations
to the LTA on or by the date mentioned in subsection (4)(b), the LTA

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               71

must, on a date that is not more than 28 days after the date on which
written representations were to have been made by under
subsection (4)(b), give to the licensee the direction mentioned in
subsection (4)(a).

 (9) Every licensee must comply with every direction given under
this section to the licensee as soon as it takes effect.

 (10) No civil or criminal liability is incurred by the licensee, or an
officer, employee or agent of the licensee, for doing or omitting to do
any act, if the act is done or omitted to be done with reasonable care
and in good faith and for the purpose of complying with or giving
effect to a direction given under this section.

        Division 4 — Regulatory action in respect of licensees

Suspension or revocation, etc., of licence

 53.—(1) Subject to section 55, if the LTA is satisfied that —

       (a) a licensee is contravening or not complying with, or has
            contravened or failed to comply with —

               (i) any of the conditions of the licensee’s licence;

              (ii) any provision of this Act or the Regulations
                   applicable to the licensee, contravention of or
                   non‑compliance with which is not an offence under
                   this Act;

             (iii) any provision of a standard of performance
                   applicable to the licensee; or

             (iv) any direction or order given to the licensee under
                   subsection (2)(c) or (e) or section 52;

       (b) the licensee —

               (i) has gone, or is likely to go, into compulsory or
                   voluntary liquidation other than for the purpose of
                   amalgamation or reconstruction; or

              (ii) is, or is likely to be, placed under judicial
                   management of a judicial manager under any
                   written law relating to the insolvency of companies;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
72  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (c) the licensee has made any assignment to, or composition
            with, its creditors or if a corporation, is unable to pay its
            debts;

       (d) the licensee is not undertaking an adequate and satisfactory
            regulated activity;

       (e) the licensee or an officer of the licensee is convicted of any
            offence under this Act or the Regulations committed
            during the term of the licence, as the case may be;

        (f) the licence had been obtained by the licensee by fraud or
            misrepresentation;

       (g) the licence fee, periodic fee, renewal fee or late renewal fee
            required by section 43(1) or 44(1) (as the case may be) has
            not been paid by the licensee in full on or by the date on
            which payment was due; or

       (h) the public interest of Singapore requires,

the LTA may revoke (without compensation) the licensee’s licence.

 (2) However, the LTA may, in lieu of revoking a licensee’s licence,
do (without compensation) any one or more of the following:

       (a) censure the licensee in writing;

       (b) modify any condition of the licensee’s licence;

       (c) direct the licensee —

               (i) to do, or to refrain from doing, such things as are
                   specified in a direction to rectify any contravention
                   or non‑compliance mentioned in subsection (1)(a);
                   or

              (ii) to remove, within a period specified in the direction,
                   from all public places EV chargers that are tagged by
                   the licensee in undertaking a regulated activity or any
                   equipment or other thing constructed or installed in
                   the vicinity of the EV charger for or in connection
                   with the regulated activity undertaken when the
                   licence is not in force;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               73

       (d) suspend or partially suspend the licence for not more than
            12 months;

       (e) direct the licensee to pay, within a period specified in a
            direction, a financial penalty of any amount that the LTA
            thinks fit, but not exceeding $100,000 for each instance of
            the contravention or non‑compliance which is the subject
            of the regulatory action;

        (f) direct the furnishing by the licensee of any performance
            bond, guarantee or other form of security, or an additional
            performance bond, guarantee or other form of security, for
            all or any of the following:

               (i) to secure compliance by the licensee with any
                   condition attached to the licence or any standard of
                   performance applicable to the licensee;

              (ii) to meet any financial penalty arising out of any
                   regulatory action started or likely to start against the
                   licensee, or both.

 (3) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a licensee for
contravening or not complying with —

       (a) any condition attached to the licence; or

       (b) any standard of performance applicable to the licensee,

any performance bond, guarantee or other form of security furnished
by the licensee to secure compliance by the licensee with any
condition attached to that licence or any standard of performance
applicable to the licensee must not be forfeited by the LTA for that
contravention or non‑compliance except to the extent to pay the
financial penalty.

 (4) In taking any regulatory action under this section in relation to
the conviction of a licensee or any person for a criminal offence, the
LTA may accept the licensee’s or person’s conviction as final.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), a corporation is unable to
pay its debts if it is a corporation which is deemed to be so unable
under section 125(2) of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
Act 2018.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
74  NO. 43 OF 2022

Regulatory action can continue despite licence expiry, etc.

 54.—(1) Subject to section 55, if regulatory action under section 53
has started against a licensee, and the LTA does not take any
regulatory action before the date of expiry of the licensee’s licence for
reasons other than the LTA discontinuing the regulatory action, then
despite the licence expiry, the regulatory action may continue and the
LTA may exercise any powers under subsection (2) in relation to the
former licensee if satisfied of any ground mentioned in section 53(1).

 (2) The LTA may, if satisfied of any ground mentioned in
section 53(1), do (without compensation) any one or more of the
following:

       (a) censure the former licensee in writing;

       (b) direct the former licensee —

               (i) to do, or to refrain from doing, such things as are
                   specified in a direction to rectify any contravention
                   or non‑compliance mentioned in section 53(1)(a) by
                   the former licensee when the licence was in force; or

              (ii) to remove, within a period specified in the direction,
                   from all public places EV chargers that are tagged by
                   the former licensee in undertaking a regulated
                   activity or any equipment or other thing
                   constructed or installed in the vicinity of the EV
                   charger for or in connection with the regulated
                   activity undertaken;

       (c) direct the former licensee to pay, within a period specified
            in a direction, a financial penalty of any amount that the
            LTA thinks fit, but not exceeding $100,000 for each
            instance of the contravention or non‑compliance which is
            the subject of the regulatory action.

 (3) Where any financial penalty is imposed on a former licensee for
contravening or not complying with —

       (a) any condition attached to the licence that has expired; or

       (b) any standard of performance that was applicable to the
            former licensee,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               75

any performance bond, guarantee or other form of security furnished
by the former licensee to secure compliance by the former licensee
with any condition attached to that licence or any standard of
performance applicable to the former licensee may be forfeited by the
LTA for that contravention or non‑compliance to the extent to pay the
financial penalty.

 (4) Section 53(4) and (5) applies to regulatory action under this
section as it applies to any regulatory action under that section.

Proceedings for regulatory action

 55.—(1) Before exercising any powers under section 53(1) or (2) or
54(2), the LTA must give written notice to the licensee or former
licensee concerned —

       (a) stating that the LTA intends to take regulatory action
            against the licensee or former licensee;

       (b) specifying the type of action in section 53(1) or (2) or 54(2)
            that the LTA proposes to take, and each instance of
            contravention or non‑compliance that is the subject of the
            action; and

       (c) specifying the time (being at least 14 days from the date of
            service of notice on the licensee, or former licensee, as the
            case may be) within which written representations may be
            made to the LTA with respect to the proposed action.

 (2) The LTA may, after considering any written representation
under subsection (1)(c), decide to take any regulatory action in
section 53(1) or (2) or 54(2) that the LTA considers appropriate.

 (3) Where the LTA has made any decision under subsection (2)
against any licensee, the LTA must serve on the licensee, or former
licensee, concerned a notice of its decision.

 (4) Subject to section 68, a decision to revoke a licence under
section 53(1), or to impose a regulatory action in section 53(2) or
54(2), which is specified in the notice given under subsection (3),
takes effect from the date on which that notice is given, or on any
other date that may be specified in the notice.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
76  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (5) Any suspension (whether partial or otherwise) or revocation of
any licence under section 53 with respect to a licensee does not
affect —

       (a) the enforcement by any person of any right or claim against
            the licensee or the former licensee, as the case may be; or

       (b) the enforcement by the licensee or the former licensee (as
            the case may be) of any right or claim against any person.

 (6) All financial penalties imposed under section 53(2) or 54(2)
must be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

                                    PART 7

                       STEP-IN ARRANGEMENTS

Application of this Part

 56. This Part applies only in relation to a licensee that is authorised
to provide EV charging services and is prescribed by the Minister, by
order in the Gazette, as a designated licensee.

Step-in order

 57.—(1) The Minister may make an order under this section (called
a step‑in order) if the licence of a designated licensee is suspended in
its entirety, revoked or surrendered, and on receipt of the written
advice from the LTA of its opinion that it is necessary to take over
some or all of the operations of the designated licensee to ensure that
the designated licensee’s customers receive an adequate provision of
EV charging services.

 (2) Before a step‑in order is made under this section, the Minister
must give the designated licensee concerned a reasonable opportunity
to make submissions in respect of the proposed step‑in order.

 (3) A step‑in order —

       (a) authorises a step‑in operator chosen by the LTA to take
            over, the operations of the designated licensee concerned,
            or a specified part of those operations;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               77

      (b) may appoint, or order the designated licensee concerned to
           appoint, a person to advise the designated licensee in the
           proper conduct of its business;

      (c) may specify that —

             (i) the step‑in operator has such functions and powers in
                  relation to the operations of the designated licensee
                  concerned as are specified in the order;

            (ii) the designated licensee concerned is to stop
                  providing EV charging services to specified
                  customers on and from a specified date; and

            (iii) the step‑in operator must have access to, and take
                  control of, the EV chargers or premises or other
                  assets and other property, including the charger
                  management software, any software used to manage
                  the supply of electricity to the EV chargers,
                  intellectual property, licences and employees, used
                  or required by the designated licensee for the
                  purposes of carrying on the operations specified in
                  the order; and

      (d) may contain ancillary directions that may —

             (i) direct how the costs of providing the EV charging
                  service, and revenue generated from the provision of
                  that service, are to be dealt with;

            (ii) fix the remuneration and expenses to be paid by a
                  designated licensee to any person appointed by the
                  Minister under paragraph (b) to advise the
                  designated licensee in the proper conduct of its
                  business;

            (iii) specify the period for which the step‑in order under
                  subsection (1) applies, such period being not more
                  than 12 months starting on the date that the step‑in
                  order is made; and

            (iv) specify any other conditions that may apply.

(4) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
78  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (5) A step‑in order operates to the exclusion of rights that are
inconsistent with the step‑in order.

 (6) The designated licensee concerned —

       (a) must facilitate the handover of the operations to the step‑in
            operator as specified in the order;

       (b) must not obstruct the step‑in operator’s access to property
            or the exercise by the step‑in operator of the step‑in
            operator’s responsibilities under this section; and

       (c) must comply with reasonable directions given by the
            step‑in operator in the exercise of the step‑in operator’s
            responsibilities under this section.

 (7) The designated licensee which fails to comply with
subsection (6) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100 for every day
or part of a day during which the offence continues after conviction.

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

 58.—(1) Despite the provisions of any other written law, where a
company is a designated licensee —

       (a) the company must not be wound up voluntarily without the
            consent of the LTA;

       (b) no judicial manager may be appointed under Part 7 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to the company;

       (c) no step is to be taken by any person to enforce any security
            over the company’s property except where that person has
            served 14 days’ notice of the person’s intention to take that
            step on the LTA; and

       (d) no application under section 210 of the Companies
            Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
            and Dissolution Act 2018 may be made by any person in
            relation to the company, unless that person has served

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               79

            14 days’ written notice of that person’s intention to make
            the application on the LTA.

 (2) The LTA must be a party to —

       (a) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
            affairs of a company that is a designated licensee; or

       (b) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
            section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
            Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
            relation to a company that is a designated licensee.

Rules and saving for step-in arrangements

 59.—(1) The Minister may, by rules made under this section, give
effect to this Part, including making provision for applying, omitting
or modifying the provisions of Part 7 of the Insolvency, Restructuring
and Dissolution Act 2018 where a step‑in order is made.

 (2) Nothing effected or to be effected by this Part or done under this
Part —

       (a) is to be regarded as placing any person in breach of
            contract or confidence or as otherwise making any person
            guilty of a civil wrong;

       (b) is to be regarded as placing any person in breach of, or as
            constituting a default under, any Act or other law or
            obligation or any provision in any agreement, arrangement
            or understanding including, but not limited to, any
            provision or obligation prohibiting, restricting or
            regulating the assignment, transfer, sale or disposal of
            any property or the disclosure of any information;

       (c) is to be regarded as fulfilling any condition that allows a
            person to exercise a power, right or remedy in respect of or
            to terminate any agreement or obligation;

       (d) is to be regarded as giving rise to any remedy for a party to
            a contract or an instrument or as causing or permitting the
            termination of any contract or instrument because of a

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
80  NO. 43 OF 2022

        change in the beneficial or legal ownership of any relevant
        property;

    (e) is to be regarded as causing any contract or instrument to
        be void or otherwise unenforceable, or as frustrating any
        contract; or

    (f) releases any surety or other obligor wholly or in part from
        any obligation.

                                    PART 8

                MINIMUM ELECTRICAL LOAD AND
                 CHARGING POINTS IN BUILDINGS

                         Division 1 — Introduction

Interpretation of this Part

 60. In this Part —

      “approved electrical load”, in relation to a development, means
         the maximum electrical load rating of the development as
         approved by a market support services licensee under the
         Electricity Act 2001;

      “building” includes part of a building;

      “building works” means —

              (a) the erection or extension of a building; or

              (b) the alteration, addition or repair of a building,

         but excludes building works for a temporary building or the
         occupation of any temporary building;

      “developer”, for any building works to which this Part applies,
         means the person for whom or on whose behalf those
         building works are carried out;

      “development” means any land or premises on which any
         development (within the meaning of section 3 of the Planning
         Act 1998) is or is to be carried out, and in respect of which —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               81

        (a) a permission is granted by a competent authority
             under Part 3 of the Planning Act 1998 on or after the
             date of commencement of this Part; or

        (b) an authorisation by notification under section 21(6)
             of the Planning Act 1998 is made on or after the date
             of commencement of this Part;

“electrical work” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Electricity Act 2001;

“gross floor area” means the floor area that is used in the
   computation of the land betterment charge in relation to any
   development under the Land Betterment Charge Act 2021;

“market support services licensee” has the meaning given by
   section 2(1) of the Electricity Act 2001;

“motor car” means a motor vehicle with 4 wheels which is
   constructed to carry a load or passengers and the weight of
   which unladen —

        (a) does not exceed 3,000 kilograms in the case of a
             vehicle which is —

               (i) constructed solely for the carriage of
                    passengers and their effects; and

               (ii) adapted to carry not more than 7 passengers
                    exclusive of the driver; and

        (b) in any other case, does not exceed 2,500 kilograms;

“parking lot” means an area within a parking place which is
   marked out for parking of a single motor car or motorcycle in
   that area;

“parking place” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Parking Places Act 1974;

“public authority” extends to include a Town Council.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
82  NO. 43 OF 2022

Application of this Part

 61.—(1) Subject to sections 62 and 63, this Part applies only to the
following types of works (each called the “defined works”) carried
out in any development:

       (a) any building works that results in the erection or
            re‑erection of a building;

       (b) any other building works for any building comprised in the
            development, the grant of permission of which by the
            competent authority or authorisation by notification under
            section 21(6) of the Planning Act 1998 would increase the
            approved gross floor area of the development by at least
            50% or any lower percentage prescribed in substitution
            under subsection (2);

       (c) any electrical work —

               (i) where the approved electrical load of the
                   development before the electrical work is carried
                   out is more than 280kVA or any lower electrical load
                   prescribed in substitution under subsection (2) —
                   that requires an approval by the market services
                   support licensee concerned to increase the approved
                   electrical load of the development; or

              (ii) where the approved electrical load of the
                   development before the electrical work is carried
                   out is 280kVA or less, or any lower electrical load
                   prescribed in substitution under subsection (2) —
                   that requires an approval by the market services
                   support licensee concerned to increase the approved
                   electrical load of the development to more than
                   280kVA or such lower electrical load as so
                   prescribed;

       (d) any other building works or electrical work prescribed by
            an order in the Gazette under subsection (2).

 (2) The Minister may, for the purpose of encouraging the use of
electric vehicles in Singapore through an expanded network of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               83

accessible charging points, make an order in the Gazette for the
following purposes:

       (a) prescribe any additional building works or electrical work
            as “defined works”;

       (b) prescribe a lower threshold percentage of increase in the
            approved gross floor area of a development for the
            purposes of subsection (1)(b);

       (c) prescribe a lower threshold level of approved electrical
            load of a development for the purposes of
            subsection (1)(c).

 (3) In this section, “competent authority” means any competent
authority appointed under section 5 of the Planning Act 1998 to be
responsible for the operation of Part 3 of that Act, and includes any
individual authorised under section 5(2) of that Act to perform any of
those functions conferred on the competent authority.

Disapplication of this Part

 62.—(1) This Part does not apply to —

       (a) any defined works carried out by or on behalf of the
            Government on State land;

       (b) any defined works carried out by or on behalf of any public
            authority on land owned by that public authority; or

       (c) any defined works carried out in connection with any
            development specified in Part 4 of the Schedule to the
            Parking Places (Provision of Parking Places and Parking
            Lots) Rules 2018.

 (2) Sections 64(1)(b) and 65(1)(b) do not apply in relation to any
defined works carried out in any development that would result in
fewer than 8 parking lots within the parking place of the development
after the completion of the defined works.

 (3) The Minister may make an order in the Gazette to lower the
number of parking lots mentioned in subsection (2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
84  NO. 43 OF 2022

Power to exempt

 63.—(1) The Minister may, if satisfied in any particular case that
the application of this Part is incompatible with the purposes of this
Act or would cause substantial hardship to any person, exempt any
person in relation to any particular defined works carried out in a
development for or on behalf of that person from all or any of the
provisions of this Part, subject to any condition that the Minister may
impose.

 (2) An exemption under subsection (1) need not be published in the
Gazette.

            Division 2 — Requirements for building works

Minimum electrical load and charging points in parking place
for building works

 64.—(1) Subject to subsection (10), the developer of any building
works must, no later than the relevant date for those building works,
install or cause to be installed —

       (a) all electrical infrastructure necessary to supply a minimum
            electrical load for the purpose of charging electric vehicles
            in the parking places of the development; and

       (b) in the parking places of the development, a minimum
            number of charging points determined in accordance with
            a formula to be prescribed by the Minister by order in the
            Gazette.

 (2) The minimum electrical load mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is
determined in accordance with a formula to be prescribed by the
Minister by order in the Gazette.

 (3) The developer of those building works must, before the relevant
date mentioned in subsection (1), submit to the LTA for approval
under this subsection —

       (a) the developer’s proposals and plans for complying with the
            requirements imposed under that subsection; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               85

       (b) any prescribed information and document and any
            additional information or documents that the LTA may
            require in any particular case.

 (4) The LTA must disapprove the proposals and plans if the LTA is
not satisfied that the proposals and plans submitted under
subsection (3) comply with the requirements under subsection (1).

 (5) For the purpose of demonstrating that the works covered by the
proposals and plans approved under subsection (3) have been
completed, the developer of those building works must, before the
relevant date for those works, give to the LTA —

       (a) all information and documents that are prescribed; and

       (b) any other information or document required by the LTA in
            any particular case.

 (6) The LTA may, after considering all information and documents
submitted under subsection (5) in relation to any particular building
works and conducting all necessary checks (including any inspection
carried out by an authorised officer of the development where the
building works are carried out) to ensure that subsection (1) has been
complied with, issue a certificate to the developer of the building
works certifying that subsection (1) has been complied with.

 (7) The LTA may issue a remedial notice to the developer of the
building works mentioned in subsection (1) requiring the
developer —

       (a) to take any step specified in the remedial notice as the LTA
            thinks fit to rectify any non‑compliance with
            subsection (1); and

       (b) to do so within the period specified in the remedial notice,
            or any extension of that period as the LTA may allow in any
            particular case.

 (8) A developer who contravenes or fails to comply with a remedial
notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
to a further fine of $500 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
86  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (9) The offence under subsection (8) is a strict liability offence.

 (10) This section does not apply if the electrical infrastructure and
charging points required under subsection (1)(a) and (b) are
comprised within the development for which any building works
are to be carried out.

 (11) In this section —

      “electrical infrastructure” includes —

              (a) the electrical switch room of the development, and
                   the main electrical distribution board in the electrical
                   switch room; and

              (b) the electrical substation of the development, and the
                   electrical switchboards, switchgears, transformers
                   and any other electrical and cabling equipment in
                   the electrical substation;

      “relevant date”, in relation to any building works, means a date
         prescribed by the Minister by order in the Gazette in relation
         to those building works.

            Division 3 — Requirements for electrical work

Minimum electrical load and charging points in parking place
for electrical work

 65.—(1) Subject to subsection (12), the owner of any development
in respect of which electrical work is carried out must, within the
period specified in subsection (4), install or cause to be installed —

       (a) all electrical infrastructure necessary to supply a minimum
            electrical load for the purpose of charging electric vehicles
            in the parking place of the development; and

       (b) in the parking places of the development, a minimum
            number of charging points determined in accordance with
            a formula to be prescribed by the Minister by order in the
            Gazette.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               87

 (2) The minimum electrical load mentioned in subsection (1)(a) is
determined in accordance with a formula to be prescribed by the
Minister by order in the Gazette.

 (3) For the purpose of demonstrating that the electrical
infrastructure and charging points mentioned in subsection (1) have
been installed, the owner of the development must, within the period
specified in subsection (4), give to the LTA —

       (a) all information and documents that are prescribed; and

       (b) any other information or document required by the LTA in
            any particular case.

 (4) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (3), the specified period
is 12 months, or such longer period as the LTA may approve in
writing in any particular case, after the following date (whichever is
applicable):

       (a) the date on which the switchgear which controls the supply
            of electricity to the development is turned on by or on
            behalf of the owner of the development in accordance with
            the Electricity Act 2001;

       (b) the effective date on which the approved electrical load of
            the development is increased, as specified in a notice of
            approval issued by the market support services licensee
            concerned.

 (5) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
subsection (3) read with subsection (4) shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which
            the offence continues after conviction.

 (6) A person who —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any prescribed
            information or document mentioned in subsection (3); or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
88  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (b) intentionally provides to the LTA any information that is
            false or misleading in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (7) It is not a reasonable excuse for a person to fail to comply with
subsection (3) read with subsection (4) on the ground that the
disclosure of any prescribed information or document might tend to
incriminate the person.

 (8) The LTA may, after considering all information and documents
submitted under subsection (3) and conducting all necessary checks
(including any inspection carried out by an authorised officer of the
development where the electrical work is carried out) to ensure that
subsection (1) has been complied with, issue a certificate to the owner
of the development certifying that subsection (1) has been complied
with.

 (9) The LTA may issue a remedial notice to the owner of the
development mentioned in subsection (1) requiring the owner —

       (a) to take any step specified in the remedial notice as the LTA
            thinks fit to rectify any non‑compliance with
            subsection (1); or

       (b) to do so within the period specified in the remedial notice,
            or any extension of that period as the LTA may allow in any
            particular case.

 (10) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with a remedial
notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $30,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence,
to a further fine of $500 for every day or part of a day during which
the offence continues after conviction.

 (11) The offence under subsection (10) is a strict liability offence.

 (12) This section does not apply if —

       (a) the requirements in Division 2 apply in relation to any
            development where building works are to be carried out
            together with the electrical work; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               89

      (b) the electrical infrastructure and charging points required
           under subsection (1)(a) and (b) are comprised within the
           development for which any electrical work is to be carried
           out.

(13) In this section —

    “common property”, “limited common property”, “lot” and
        “subdivided building” have the meanings given by
        section 2(1) of the Building (Strata Management) Act 2004;

                                                                             [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

    “electrical infrastructure” has the meaning given by
        section 64(11);

    “owner”, in relation to a development, means —

            (a) in relation to any premises which are not
                 subdivided — any person who is the registered
                 proprietor of the fee simple, estate in perpetuity or
                 leasehold estate of those premises in the land‑register
                 under the Land Titles Act 1993;

            (b) in relation to any common property or any limited
                 common property of any premises comprised in a
                 strata title plan under the Land Titles (Strata)
                 Act 1967 — the management corporation or
                 subsidiary management corporation (as the case
                 may be) having control of the common property or
                 limited common property;

            (c) in relation to any subdivided building other than a
                 subdivided building mentioned in paragraph (b),
                 means —

                    (i) in relation to any subdivided building with
                        common property or limited common
                        property —

                          (A) every person who is a registered
                               proprietor in the land‑register under the
                               Land Titles Act 1993 of the fee simple,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
90  NO. 43 OF 2022

                                 estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of
                                 a lot in that building; or

                           (B) in a case where a person is entrusted to
                                 receive any rent or charge for the
                                 maintenance and management of the
                                 common property or limited common
                                 property — that person; or

                     (ii) in relation to a lot in any subdivided building
                          with no common property — any person who is
                          the registered proprietor in the land‑register
                          under the Land Titles Act 1993 of the fee
                          simple, estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate
                          of that lot; and

              (d) in relation to any other development where
                   paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) do not apply — the
                   person for the time being receiving any rent or charge
                   of the development, whether on the person’s own
                   account or as agent or trustee or as receiver, or who
                   would receive the same if the development were let to
                   a tenant, and includes every person whose name is
                   entered in the Valuation List prepared under
                   section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960 as owner
                   of that development.

Request for information from market support services licensee

 66.—(1) The LTA may, by written notice, require any market
support services licensee to provide the following, within a
reasonable period and in the form and manner specified in the notice:

       (a) any information and document relating to the approved
            electrical load of any development;

       (b) any information and document relating to the location and
            type of the development;

       (c) any information and document relating to the identity and
            contact details of the person who is granted the approved
            electrical load of the development;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               91

       (d) any other information or document which the LTA
            considers necessary for the purpose of ensuring
            compliance with this Division.

 (2) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
the request under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000; and

       (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $250 for every day or part of a day during which
            the offence continues after conviction.

 (3) A person who —

       (a) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any information
            or document required by the request; or

       (b) intentionally provides to the LTA any information or
            document that is false or misleading in a material
            particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (4) It is not a reasonable excuse for a person to fail to comply with
the request under subsection (1) on the ground that the disclosure of
any information or document required to be provided to the LTA
might tend to incriminate the person.

                                    PART 9
                                   APPEALS
Interpretation of this Part
 67. In this Part —
      “appealable decision” means any of the following decisions of
         the LTA:
              (a) a decision under section 9(1) revoking a section 7(3)
                   approval;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
92  NO. 43 OF 2022

            (b) a decision under section 43(1)(b) refusing the grant or
                 renewal of a licence;

            (c) a decision under section 45 imposing a condition in a
                 licence;

            (d) a modification under section 46 of a condition in a
                 licence;

            (e) a refusal to modify the types of EV chargers that the
                 licensee is authorised under its licence to use in
                 undertaking a regulated activity under section 47;

            (f) a refusal under section 48 to consent to a surrender of
                 a licence;

            (g) a direction under section 52(1) to a licensee;

            (h) a decision under section 53(1) to revoke a licence;

            (i) a decision under section 53 or 54(2) to take
                 regulatory action against a licensee or a former
                 licensee;

    “appellant” means the following in relation to an appealable
       decision:

            (a) a person to whom a section 7(3) approval is granted,
                 where the appealable decision is within paragraph (a)
                 of the definition of “appealable decision”;

            (b) an applicant for the grant or renewal of a licence,
                 where the appealable decision is within paragraph (b)
                 of the definition of “appealable decision”;

            (c) a licensee or former licensee, where the appealable
                 decision is within paragraph (h) or (i) of the
                 definition of “appealable decision”;

            (d) a licensee where the appealable decision is any other
                 paragraph of the definition of “appealable decision”.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               93

Appeal to Minister

 68.—(1) An appellant who is aggrieved by an appealable decision
may appeal to the Minister against the decision in accordance with
this section.

 (2) An appeal under this section must be in writing and specify the
grounds on which it is made, and be made within 28 days after the
date the decision appealed against is given to the appellant, or such
longer period as the Minister may allow in any particular case for
special reasons.

 (3) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (2).

 (4) An appeal against an appealable decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against or prevent the taking of
action to implement the decision, and unless otherwise directed by
the Minister under this subsection, the decision appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

Decision on appeal

 69.—(1) After considering an appeal under section 68, the Minister
may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the appealable decision; or

       (b) allow the appeal and reverse the appealable decision.

 (2) In relation to the Minister determining an appeal made under
section 68, sections 7 and 9 and Part 6 apply as if the reference in
those sections and that Part to the LTA were a reference to the
Minister.

 (3) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (1).

 (4) The decision of the Minister, or an office‑holder designated
under section 70, on an appeal is final.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
94  NO. 43 OF 2022

Designate may hear appeal in place of Minister

 70.—(1) The Minister may designate any of the following
office‑holders in his or her Ministry to hear and determine, in the
Minister’s place, any appeal made under section 68:

       (a) the Second Minister, if any;

       (b) any Minister of State or Senior Minister of State;

       (c) any Parliamentary Secretary or Senior Parliamentary
            Secretary.

 (2) A reference to the Minister in section 68 or 69 includes a
reference to a person designated under subsection (1).

                                   PART 10

                  EVIDENCE AND ENFORCEMENT

                           Division 1 — Evidence

Labels and marking of EV chargers

 71.—(1) In any proceedings for an offence under section 6, 11, 18,
23, 24, 29, 30, 32 or 33, if an EV charger is supplied, installed or
certified in Singapore, or is used to charge an electric vehicle in
Singapore, with —

       (a) any approval label made available by the LTA under
            section 8(1)(b); or

       (b) any alteration‑approved label made available by the LTA
            under section 13(1),

affixed to it in accordance with the Regulations, the label is sufficient
evidence of the fact that the EV charger is of a homologated model
unless the contrary is established.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under section 6, 11, 18, 23,
24, 29, 30, 32 or 33, if an EV charger is used to charge an electric
vehicle in Singapore, with a registration mark issued by the LTA
under section 20(1)(c) for a registered‑for‑charging EV charger
affixed to it in accordance with the Regulations, the label is sufficient

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               95

evidence of the fact that the EV charger is a registered‑for‑charging
EV charger unless the contrary is established.

Extract of register of registered-for-charging EV chargers

 72. A certificate signed or purporting to be signed by an authorised
officer and stating that —

       (a) an EV charger described or specified in the certificate was
            or was not registered as a registered‑for‑charging EV
            charger at a specified time; or

       (b) any other particulars or information was recorded in the
            register of registered‑for‑charging EV chargers at a
            specified time,

is admissible in any legal proceedings and is prima facie evidence of
the facts stated in the certificate.

                            Division 2 — Powers

Purpose for which powers are exercisable

 73.—(1) An authorised officer may exercise the powers set out in
this Part for all or any of the following purposes:

       (a) to detect and investigate offences under this Act, whether
            committed by a licensee or any other person;

       (b) to determine whether there are grounds for taking any
            regulatory action under Division 4 of Part 6;

       (c) to determine whether information given to the LTA or an
            authorised officer under any provision of this Act is
            correct.

 (2) To avoid doubt, nothing in this Part limits section 39 of the Land
Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 with respect to an offence
under this Act.

 (3) Nothing in this Part affects a police officer’s powers or duties
under any provision of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010 or any
other written law.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
96  NO. 43 OF 2022

Powers of entry, etc., at premises

 74.—(1) An authorised officer may without warrant, enter, at all
reasonable times, and remain at —

       (a) any premises where a licensee or former licensee has an
            office or keeps records that relate to any regulated activity
            undertaken by the licensee or former licensee;

       (b) any premises where the officer believes on reasonable
            grounds are used for the carrying on of a business or a trade
            (but not a residence) of —

               (i) supplying or altering any EV charger;

              (ii) providing an EV charging service; or

             (iii) operating a charging station; and

       (c) any premises where the officer believes on reasonable
            grounds that —

               (i) an offence under section 18, 23, 24, 29 or 30 is being
                   or has been committed; or

              (ii) an activity mentioned in section 39(1) is being or has
                   been carried on in contravention of a safety and
                   security directive given under section 37,

       (c) provided that where the premises is a residence, entry is
            made only if the occupier of the premises has consented to
            the entry or after giving 6 hours’ prior notice of that entry.

 (2) Upon entering any premises under subsection (1), an authorised
officer may do all or any of the following:

       (a) examine any thing or observe any activity conducted in or
            on the premises;

       (b) inspect the premises and any document or article or other
            thing in or on the premises;

       (c) make a still or moving image or recording of the premises
            and any document or article or other thing in or on the
            premises;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               97

       (d) inspect any document or article found in or on the premises
            and take extracts from, or make copies of, any such
            document or article;

       (e) seize any document or article found in or on the premises
            if, in the opinion of the authorised officer —

               (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                   document or article cannot reasonably be performed
                   without taking possession;

              (ii) the document or article may be interfered with or
                   destroyed unless possession is taken; or

             (iii) the document or article may be required as evidence
                   in any criminal proceedings or regulatory action
                   instituted or commenced under this Act;

        (f) operate electronic equipment in or on the premises;

       (g) seize and take it to a holding yard, any EV charger found
            on the premises that is or the officer reasonably believes to
            be —

               (i) neither of a homologated model nor a specially
                   authorised EV charger; or

              (ii) the subject matter or used in the commission of an
                   offence under this Act,

       (g) or require the owner or person in charge of the EV charger
            to take the EV charger to and surrender it at a specified
            holding yard;

       (h) take into or onto the premises any equipment and materials
            as the authorised officer requires for the purpose of
            exercising powers in this section in relation to those
            premises.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), if any information in a
document or article required by an authorised officer is kept in
electronic form —

       (a) the power of an authorised officer to inspect the document
            or article includes the power —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
98  NO. 43 OF 2022

               (i) to access any computer or other equipment
                   (including a mobile telephone) in which the
                   information is stored; and

              (ii) to require any person having charge of, or otherwise
                   concerned with the operation of, the computer or
                   equipment to provide assistance in gaining such
                   access; and

       (b) the power of an authorised officer to seize such document
            includes the power —

               (i) to make copies of the document in legible or
                   electronic form; and

              (ii) to transfer the information from the document to a
                   disk, tape or other storage device.

 (4) If an authorised officer under subsection (3)(b) is unable to
make copies of the document or transfer the information from the
document, the authorised officer (whether or not the same inspecting
officer) may —

       (a) seize the computer or other equipment (including a mobile
            telephone) in which the document or information is stored,
            as evidence in proceedings for an offence under any
            provision of this Act; and

       (b) require any person having charge of, or otherwise
            concerned with the operation of, the computer or
            equipment to disclose any password or access code for
            gaining access to the document or information held in the
            computer or equipment.

 (5) The power under subsection (2)(f) to operate electronic
equipment in or on any premises includes the power —

       (a) to use a disk, tape or other storage device that is in or on the
            premises and can be used with the equipment or in
            association with the equipment;

       (b) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to put
            the relevant data in documentary form and remove the
            documents so produced from the premises; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               99

       (c) to operate electronic equipment in or on the premises to
            transfer the relevant data to a disk, tape or other storage
            device that —

               (i) is brought to the premises for the exercise of the
                   power; or

              (ii) is in or on the premises and the use of which for that
                   purpose has been agreed in writing by the occupier of
                   the premises,

       (c) and to remove the disk, tape or other storage device from
            those premises.

 (6) An authorised officer may break open doors, windows or
partitions and do such other acts as may be necessary to enter and
remain at any premises, except that an authorised officer may
exercise a power under this subsection only —

       (a) after declaring his or her office and after producing his or
            her identification card on demand being made; and

       (b) in circumstances where the authorised officer —

               (i) suspects on reasonable grounds that an offence under
                   section 18, 23, 24, 29 or 30 or Part 5 has been or is
                   being committed in relation to those premises; and

              (ii) is unable to enter, or is refused entry to, the premises.

 (7) An authorised officer entering any premises for a purpose in
subsection (1) may be accompanied by a number of outsourced
enforcement officers as is reasonably necessary for that purpose.

Powers in relation to motor vehicles

 75.—(1) An authorised officer may without warrant, do all or any
of the following in relation to any motor vehicle which an authorised
officer has reasonable grounds to believe that is charging or was
recently charged with an EV charger:

       (a) to stop and detain the motor vehicle for as long as is
            reasonably necessary for the exercise of any other power
            under this section;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
100  NO. 43 OF 2022

     (b) inspect the motor vehicle and any equipment in or on the
          motor vehicle;

     (c) make a still or moving image or recording of the motor
          vehicle and any document or article or other thing in or on
          the motor vehicle;

     (d) inspect any document or article found on the motor vehicle
          and take extracts from, or make copies of, any such
          document or article;

     (e) seize any document or article found on the motor vehicle if,
          in the opinion of the authorised officer —

            (i) the inspection or copying of or extraction from the
                 document or article cannot reasonably be performed
                 without taking possession;

           (ii) the document or article may be interfered with or
                 destroyed unless possession is taken; or

           (iii) the document or article may be required as evidence
                 in any criminal proceedings or regulatory action
                 instituted or commenced under this Act;

     (f) operate any electronic equipment in or on the motor
          vehicle;

     (g) seize and take it to a holding yard, any EV charger found in
          or on the motor vehicle that is or the officer reasonably
          believes to be —

            (i) neither of a homologated model nor a specially
                 authorised EV charger; or

           (ii) the subject matter or used in the commission of an
                 offence under this Act,

     (g) or require the owner or person in charge of the EV charger
          to take the EV charger to and surrender it at a specified
          holding yard;

     (h) take into or onto the premises any equipment and materials
          that the authorised officer requires for the purpose of

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               101

            exercising powers in this section in relation to the motor
            vehicle.

 (2) Section 74(3), (4) and (5) applies to the power of an authorised
officer under this section with the necessary modifications.

 (3) An authorised officer may be accompanied by a number of
outsourced enforcement officers as is reasonably necessary for a
purpose in subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d).

Power to obtain information

 76.—(1) The powers in this section may be exercised only in
relation to any of the following:

       (a) any licensee;

       (b) any employee or former employee of a licensee.

 (2) An authorised officer may by written notice require any person
mentioned in subsection (1) to provide, within a reasonable period
specified in the notice, and in the form and manner that may be
specified in the notice, all information and all documents or material
which —

       (a) relate to any matter which the LTA or authorised officer
            considers necessary for any of the purposes of
            section 73(1); and

       (b) are —

               (i) within the knowledge of that person; or

              (ii) in the custody or under the control of the person.

 (3) The power to require a person mentioned in subsection (1) to
provide any information or any document or material under that
subsection includes the power —

       (a) to require that person to produce or grant access to the
            information or document or material;

       (b) to require that person to provide an explanation of the
            information or document or material;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
102  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (c) if the information or document or material is not produced,
            to require the person to state, to the best of the knowledge
            and belief of that person, where it is; and

       (d) if the information or material is recorded otherwise than in
            legible form, to require the information or material to be
            made available to an authorised officer concerned in
            legible form.

 (4) An authorised officer is entitled without payment to keep for the
purposes of section 73(1) any information or document or material, or
any copy or extract thereof, provided to him or her under
subsection (2).

Power of examination

 77.—(1) An authorised officer may, for the purposes of
section 73(1), do all or any of the following:

       (a) require any individual whom the authorised officer
            reasonably believes to have committed an offence under
            this Act to provide evidence of that individual’s identity;

       (b) require, by written notice, any person, whom the
            authorised officer reasonably believes has —

               (i) any information or material; or

              (ii) any document in the person’s custody or control,

       (b) that is relevant to the investigation, to provide that
            information or material or the document, within such
            time and in such manner as may be specified in the written
            notice;

       (c) require, by written notice, any person within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
            circumstances of the matter, to attend before the authorised
            officer;

       (d) examine orally any individual who appears to be
            acquainted with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               103

               (i) whether before or after that individual or anyone else
                   is charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; or

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter.

 (2) A statement made by an individual examined under
subsection (1)(d) must —

       (a) be reduced to writing;

       (b) be read over to the individual;

       (c) if the individual does not understand English, be
            interpreted in a language that the individual understands;
            and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the individual.

 (3) An outsourced enforcement officer may, for the purpose of
section 73(1), require any individual whom the officer reasonably
believes to have committed an offence under this Act to provide
evidence of that individual’s identity.

Power to remove, etc., EV chargers

 78.—(1) In addition to any powers in this Division, where an
authorised officer has reason to believe that an EV charger is —

       (a) neither of a homologated model nor a specially authorised
            EV charger; or

       (b) the subject of or used in the commission of an offence
            under this Act,

the authorised officer may by written order require any of the
following to be done:

       (c) the supply of the EV charger must stop until the order is
            withdrawn;

       (d) the provision of EV charging services or undertaking of
            any other regulated activity using that EV charger must
            stop until the order is withdrawn;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
104  NO. 43 OF 2022

       (e) the EV charger must be removed from any electrical
            installation it is affixed to;

        (f) the EV charger must be altered so as to put an end to the
            contravention giving rise to the commission of the offence.

 (2) An order made under subsection (1) must specify all or any of
the following:

       (a) the manner in which the removal or alteration work
            specified in the order is to be carried out;

       (b) the time within which the removal or alteration work
            specified must start;

       (c) the time within which the removal or alteration work
            specified must be completed;

       (d) that the removal or alteration work specified must be
            carried out with due diligence to the satisfaction of the
            LTA, and at the cost of the person on whom the order is
            given under subsection (3).

 (3) An order made under subsection (1) must be given —

       (a) to the owner of the EV charger; and

       (b) where the EV charger is being supplied or used to provide
            EV charging services or to undertake any other regulated
            activity — to the person supplying the EV charger or
            providing the EV charging services or undertaking the
            regulated activity, as the case may be.

 (4) If an order made under subsection (1) is not complied with, the
LTA may —

       (a) remove to a holding yard or alter, or cause to be so removed
            or altered, any EV charger in subsection (1) or take any
            other steps that appear to the LTA to be necessary to secure
            compliance with the order; and

       (b) recover all expenses reasonably incurred by the LTA in the
            exercise of powers under this subsection from the person in
            default.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               105

 (5) Without affecting the right of the LTA to exercise powers under
subsection (4), if any person to whom an order is made under
subsection (1), without reasonable excuse, refuses or neglects to
comply with the order, that person shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
            term not exceeding 6 months or to both; and

       (b) in respect of a continuing failure to comply, to an
            additional fine not exceeding $500 for every day or part
            of a day the failure to comply continues up to a total
            maximum of $10,000.

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (5), it is a
defence for the person charged to prove, on a balance of probabilities,
that the person has no legal right to remove or alter the EV charger in
question.

 (7) For the purpose of exercising a power under subsection (4), an
authorised officer may, with such assistance as he or she considers
necessary, use reasonable force, including cutting or breaking open
any lock, seal, fastener or other device on or connected to the EV
charger in question.

                           Division 3 — Offences

Obstructing authorised officer, etc.

 79.—(1) If an authorised officer or outsourced enforcement officer
is authorised under this Act to enter any premises, a person who —

       (a) wilfully prevents the authorised officer or outsourced
            enforcement officer from entering or re‑entering those
            premises or any part of those premises; or

       (b) wilfully obstructs or delays the authorised officer or
            outsourced enforcement officer from entering or
            re‑entering those premises or any part of those premises,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
106  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (2) A person who intentionally refuses to give access to, or
intentionally obstructs, hinders or delays an authorised officer or
outsourced enforcement officer in the discharge of his or her duties
under any provision of this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

Other offences

 80.—(1) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do
anything required of the person —

       (a) by an authorised officer under section 74(2) or 75(1);

       (b) by a notice under section 76(2) or 77(1); or

       (c) by an outsourced enforcement officer under section 77(3),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (2) A person —

       (a) who intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any
            information or any document or material which the
            person has been required by an authorised officer under
            section 76(2) or 77 to provide; or

       (b) who, in providing any information or any document or
            material required by an authorised officer under
            section 76(2) or 77 makes any statement which the
            person knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is
            reckless as to whether, it is false or misleading in a material
            particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence for the accused to prove, on a balance of probabilities, that —

       (a) the person does not possess the information or document
            required; and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               107

       (b) the person has taken all reasonable steps available to the
            person to obtain the information or document required and
            has been unable to obtain it.

 (4) To avoid doubt, for the purposes of subsection (1), it is a
reasonable excuse for a person to refuse or fail to provide any
information, produce any document or answer any question if doing
so might tend to incriminate that person.

 (5) A person commits an offence if the person, being an applicant
for the grant of an approval under Part 2 or a licence under Part 6 —

       (a) provides, or causes or permits to be provided, any
            information or document in connection with the
            application, which is false or misleading in a material
            particular; and

       (b) knows or ought reasonably to know that, or is reckless as to
            whether, the information or document is false or
            misleading in a material particular.

 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (5) shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                   Division 4 — Supplementary powers

Composition of offences

 81.—(1) The LTA or an authorised officer may compound any
offence under this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable
offence —

       (a) by collecting from a person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence a sum not exceeding the lower of
            the following:

               (i) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
                   prescribed for the offence;

              (ii) $5,000; and

       (b) by requiring the person reasonably suspected of having
            committed the offence to do, or to refrain from doing, such

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
108  NO. 43 OF 2022

            things as are specified in an offer of composition (called
            conditions of composition) by the Chief Executive of the
            LTA, or any employee of the LTA with the concurrence
            (general or specific) of the Public Prosecutor.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money and on full compliance with
the conditions of composition, no further proceedings are to be taken
against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

Holding yards and follow-up after removal thereto

 82.—(1) After an EV charger is moved or removed to a holding
yard under section 74(2), 75(1) or 78(4) by an authorised officer, the
authorised officer must as soon as practicable give notice of the move
or removal to —

       (a) the owner of the EV charger; and

       (b) where the EV charger was being supplied or used to
            provide EV charging services or to undertake any other
            regulated activity — on the person supplying the EV
            charger or providing the EV charging services or
            undertaking that other regulated activity, as the case may
            be.

 (2) An EV charger that is surrendered at a holding yard under
section 74(2) or 75(1) or seized and taken or removed to a holding
yard under section 74(2), 75(1) or 78(4), must be detained there until
it is released by order of the LTA or disposed of in accordance with
section 84.

 (3) A person who wilfully removes or causes to be removed an EV
charger detained at a holding yard under subsection (2) from the
holding yard without the order of the LTA shall be guilty of an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               109

Forfeiture of seized EV chargers

 83.—(1) Subject to this section, all EV chargers liable to seizure
under the provisions of this Act are liable to forfeiture by a court.

 (2) An order for the forfeiture of an EV charger seized under this
Act may instead be made by the LTA if it is satisfied that —

       (a) the EV charger is neither of a homologated model nor is a
            specially authorised EV charger; or

       (b) the EV charger was the subject matter, or was used in the
            commission, of an offence under section 18, 23, 24, 29, 30
            or 39 or Part 5 and a person is convicted of, or has accepted
            a composition sum offered with respect to, the offence
            committed or allegedly committed.

Disposal of forfeited EV chargers

 84. Where any EV charger is forfeited by the LTA under section 83,
an authorised officer may, after giving one month’s notice in the
Gazette of his or her intention to do so, destroy or otherwise dispose
of the EV charger.

Offences by corporations

 85.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
110  NO. 43 OF 2022

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
                   take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
                   commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1873 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership;

      “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
         partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
         officer of the corporation, and includes —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               111

        (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

        (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
             members, any of those members as if the member
             were a director of the corporation;

“reasonable steps”, in relation to the commission of an offence,
   includes, but is not limited to, such action (if any) of the
   following kinds as is reasonable in all the circumstances:

        (a) action towards —

               (i) assessing the corporation’s compliance with
                    the provision creating the offence; and

               (ii) ensuring that the corporation arranged regular
                    professional assessments of its compliance
                    with the provision;

        (b) action towards ensuring that the corporation’s
             employees, agents and contractors are provided
             with information, training, instruction and
             supervision appropriate to them to enable them to
             comply with the provision creating the offence so far
             as the provision is relevant to them;

        (c) action towards ensuring that —

               (i) the equipment and other resources; and

               (ii) the structures, work systems and other
                    processes,

        (c) relevant to compliance with the provision creating
             the offence are appropriate in all the circumstances;

        (d) action towards creating and maintaining a corporate
             culture that does not direct, encourage, tolerate or
             lead to non‑compliance with the provision creating
             the offence;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

        (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
             of the person; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
112  NO. 43 OF 2022

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 86.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated association
or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
            or her actual or apparent authority; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

             (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership and in a
                   position to influence the conduct of the
                   unincorporated association or partnership (as the
                   case may be) in relation to the commission of the
                   offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               113

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the unincorporated
                   association or partnership; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the unincorporated association or
                   partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
                   be or is being committed, and failed to take all
                   reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
                   that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

       (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1873 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

 (6) In this section —

      “officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
         a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
         member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
         and includes —

              (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
                   president, secretary or member of a committee of the
                   unincorporated association; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
114  NO. 43 OF 2022

              (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

      “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

      “reasonable steps” has the meaning given by section 85;

      “state of mind” of a person includes —

              (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
                   of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with such modifications as the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

Jurisdiction of courts

 87. Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try, and has power to impose the
full punishment for, any offence under this Act.

                                    PART 11

                            ADMINISTRATION

Administration of Act by LTA

 88.—(1) It is the function of the LTA to administer this Act.

 (2) Despite anything in the Interpretation Act 1965, the Land
Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 or any other law, the
powers conferred or duties imposed upon the LTA by any provision
of this Act are non‑delegable to the following:

       (a) a wholly‑owned subsidiary company of the LTA;

       (b) a person engaged as a contractor by the LTA.

 (3) No liability shall lie against an authorised officer, an outsourced
enforcement officer, or a member, officer or employee of the LTA or
any other person acting under the direction of the LTA for anything

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               115

done or intended to be done in good faith and with reasonable care in
the execution or purported execution of this Act.

Authorised officers

 89.—(1) The LTA may, in relation to any provision of this Act,
appoint —

       (a) any of its employees;

       (b) any individual performing duties in the LTA under a
            secondment arrangement making available temporarily to
            the LTA the services of the individual;

       (c) any public officer; or

       (d) any employee of another public authority,

to be an authorised officer for the purposes of that provision, either
generally or in a particular case.

 (2) The LTA may delegate the exercise of all or any of the powers
conferred or duties imposed upon the LTA by any provision of this
Act, to any authorised officer, subject to any conditions or limitations
that the LTA may specify; and any reference in that provision of this
Act or its subsidiary legislation to the LTA includes a reference to
such an authorised officer.

 (3) However, nothing in subsection (2) authorises delegating —

       (a) the power of delegation conferred by that subsection; or

       (b) any power of the LTA to make subsidiary legislation under
            this Act.

Recovery of fees and penalties

 90.—(1) The LTA may impose interest at the prescribed rate on any
outstanding amount of —

       (a) any fee payable under section 43 for the grant or renewal of
            a licence;

       (b) any periodic fee payable under section 44; or

       (c) any financial penalty directed under section 53(2) or 54(2)
            to be paid.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
116  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (2) The following may be recovered by the LTA in any court of
competent jurisdiction as if they were simple contract debts:

       (a) any fee payable under section 43 for the grant or renewal of
            a licence;

       (b) any periodic fee payable under section 44;

       (c) any financial penalty directed under section 53(2) or 54(2)
            to be paid;

       (d) any interest mentioned in subsection (1).

                                   PART 12

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Application of Act

 91.—(1) This Act extends to any conduct outside Singapore, or
partly inside or partly outside Singapore that results in —

       (a) the supply of EV chargers in Singapore; or

       (b) the provision of EV charging services, or the undertaking
            of any other regulated activity, in Singapore.

 (2) This Act does not apply to an advertisement relating to an EV
charger unless the advertisement is published in Singapore.

 (3) This Act binds the Government, but nothing in this Act renders
the Government liable to prosecution for an offence under this Act.

 (4) To avoid doubt, no person is immune from prosecution for any
offence under this Act by reason only that the person is engaged to
provide services to the Government or is acting in any other similar
capacity for, or on behalf of, the Government.

General power to exempt

 92. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to such conditions as the
Minister may impose.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               117

Service of documents

 93.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual; or

        (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
            address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
            address.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
118  NO. 43 OF 2022

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association;

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (d) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document permitted or required by this Act to be
served on an individual, a partnership, a body corporate or an
unincorporated association may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the individual,
            partnership, body corporate or unincorporated
            association (called in this section an addressee) by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available and how the addressee may use the
            addressee’s chosen means of access to access the
            document’s contents; or

       (b) by any other method authorised by the Regulations for the
            service of documents of that kind if the addressee consents
            (expressly or impliedly) to service of a document of that
            kind in that way.

 (6) Service of a document takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received, on the day of
            transmission;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               119

       (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
            becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
            it is sent; or

       (c) if the document is sent by post, 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered).

 (7) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email or by an electronic notice at the person’s chosen means of
notification, may be effected only with the person’s prior consent
(express or implied) to service in that way.

 (8) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

 (9) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore; or

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means the addressee agrees with the
         person giving or serving the document as the means by which
         the addressee may access that document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document permitted or required by this Act,
         means an electronic means that the addressee nominates to
         the person giving or serving the document as the means by
         which the addressee may be notified that such a document
         has been served on the addressee;

      “document” includes a notice or an order permitted or required
         by this Act to be served;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
120  NO. 43 OF 2022

         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore.

Regulations

 94.—(1) The LTA may, with the approval of the Minister, make
Regulations necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out
or giving effect to this Act.

 (2) In particular, the LTA may, with the approval of the Minister,
make Regulations in respect of any of the following:

       (a) the form and manner in which, and the time within which,
            an application for the grant of any approval or licence may
            be made under this Act;

       (b) the carrying out of inquiries of applicants for any approval
            or licence under this Act;

       (c) the duties of licensees and registered responsible persons
            for EV chargers;

       (d) the individuals, by name, qualifications, occupation or
            employment, who are prescribed persons for certifying EV
            chargers as fit for charging any electric vehicle in
            Singapore;

       (e) the duties of an individual who is a prescribed competent
            person for certifying under section 23 an EV charger as fit
            for charging any electric vehicle in Singapore, or a
            prescribed person for installing fixed EV chargers under
            section 24;

        (f) the labelling or marking of EV chargers, including those
            used by a licensee to undertake a regulated activity;

       (g) classes of licences;

       (h) the carrying out of any installation or certification of an
            EV charger;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               121

        (i) regulating the individuals who undertake work (including
            supervision) in connection with any installation or
            certification of an EV charger;

        (j) the fees to be paid in respect of applications for the grant of
            any approval or licence and otherwise in connection with
            the administration of this Act, and for the waiver, reduction
            or refund of fees charged;

       (k) the records that must be kept by licensees and by registered
            responsible persons for EV chargers and the provision of
            returns and other information in connection with a
            regulated activity, which may include audio and visual
            records.

 (3) Regulations made under this section may apply —

       (a) in respect of the conduct of all forms of regulated activities
            or particular categories of regulated activities;

       (b) in respect of all licensees or particular types of licensees; or

       (c) in respect of all EV chargers or particular types of
            EV chargers.

 (4) Regulations made under this section may —

       (a) create offences for a contravention of any provision of the
            Regulations, the penalty for which on conviction may be a
            fine not exceeding $5,000 or imprisonment for a term not
            exceeding 6 months or both; and

       (b) provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential, incidental and supplemental provisions as
            are necessary or expedient for the purposes of this Act.

Incorporation by reference, etc.

 95.—(1) Any subsidiary legislation made under this Act may make
provision for or in relation to a matter by applying, adopting or
incorporating by reference, with or without modification, any matter
contained in any code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or
other document, as in force at a particular time or from time to time,
which relates to any matter with which the Regulation deals, even if

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
122  NO. 43 OF 2022

the code, standard, rule, requirement, specification or other document
does not yet exist when the Regulation is made.

 (2) Material referred to in subsection (1) may be applied, adopted or
incorporated by reference in any subsidiary legislation made under
this Act —

       (a) in whole or in part; or

       (b) with modifications, additions or variations specified in the
            subsidiary legislation made under this Act.

 (3) A copy of any material applied, adopted or incorporated by
reference in any subsidiary legislation made under this Act, including
any amendment to, or replacement of, the material, must be —

       (a) certified as a correct copy of the material by the LTA; and

       (b) retained by the LTA.

 (4) Any material applied, adopted or incorporated in any subsidiary
legislation made under this Act by reference under subsection (1) is to
be treated for all purposes as forming part of the subsidiary legislation
made under this Act; and, unless otherwise provided in the subsidiary
legislation, every amendment to any material incorporated by
reference under subsection (1) that is made by the person or
organisation originating the material is, subject to subsections (5)
and (6), to be treated as being a part of that subsidiary legislation
made under this Act.

 (5) Where any material referred to in subsection (1) is applied,
adopted or incorporated by reference in any subsidiary legislation
made under this Act, the LTA must give notice in the Gazette
stating —

       (a) that the material is incorporated in the subsidiary
            legislation and the date on which the relevant provision
            in the Regulation was made;

       (b) that the material is available for inspection during working
            hours, without charge;

       (c) the place where the material can be inspected;

       (d) that copies of the material can be purchased;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               123

       (e) the place where copies of the material can be purchased;
            and

        (f) if copies of the material are available in other ways, the
            details of where or how the material can be accessed or
            obtained.

 (6) The LTA must cause a copy of every code, standard,
requirement, rule or specification incorporated by reference under
subsection (1) to be made available for inspection by members of the
public without charge at the office of the LTA during normal office
hours.

 (7) In this section, “modification” includes omissions, additions
and substitutions.

Presentation to Parliament

 96. All orders, rules and regulations made under this Act must be
presented to Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the
Gazette.

                                   PART 13

              AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS AND
                           FINAL PROVISIONS

Amendment of Building Maintenance and Strata Management
Act 2004

 97. The Building Maintenance and Strata Management Act 2004 is
amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately before the definition of
            “immediate family member” in section 2(1), the
            following definition:

                  “ “fixed EV charger” has the meaning given by
                        section 2 of the Electric Vehicles Charging
                        Act 2022;”;

       (b) by deleting the words “subsection (3)” in section 29(1) and
            substituting the words “subsections (1A), (1B) and (3)”;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
124  NO. 43 OF 2022

     (c) by inserting, immediately after subsection (1) of
          section 29, the following subsections:

                 “(1A) To avoid doubt, it is the duty of a
                management corporation to properly maintain and
                keep in a state of good and serviceable repair
                (including, where reasonably necessary, renew or
                replace) any fixed EV charger that is owned by the
                management corporation and installed in the common
                property.

                 (1B) Subsection (1)(d) does not apply to or in
                relation to any matter falling within section 34A(1).

                 (1C) The installation of any fixed EV charger in the
                common property does not in itself make the fixed EV
                charger part of the common property.”;

     (d) by inserting, immediately after subsection (3) of
          section 32, the following subsection:

                 “(3A) Despite subsection (3)(d), any by‑law for the
                purpose of controlling and managing the use or
                enjoyment of any parking lot within the common
                property that has fixed EV chargers installed may be
                made, amended, added to or repealed by a
                management corporation pursuant to an ordinary
                resolution.”;

     (e) by inserting, immediately after subsection (2) of
          section 34, the following subsection:

                 “(2A) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to or in
                relation to any matter falling within section 34A(1).”;
                and

     (f) by inserting, immediately after section 34, the following
          section:

                “Ordinary resolution for installation, etc., of
                fixed EV chargers in common property

                 34A.—(1) A management corporation may, subject
                to subsection (2) and the approval from the relevant

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               125

                  authority, and pursuant to an ordinary resolution,
                  execute on behalf of its subsidiary proprietors —

                          (a) a lease of or rent, or licence of, any part of
                               the common property to any person for the
                               installation of a fixed EV charger, for a
                               period that does not exceed 10 years and
                               cannot be extended by exercise of any
                               option of renewal to exceed an aggregate of
                               10 years; or

                          (b) an agreement for the uninstallation of a
                               fixed EV charger that is installed in any
                               part of the common property under a lease,
                               rent or licence mentioned in paragraph (a).

                    (2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the
                  management fund or sinking fund must not be used
                  for the installation or uninstallation of any fixed
                  EV charger in the common property.”.

Amendment of Electricity Act 2001

 98. Section 2(1) of the Electricity Act 2001 is amended —

       (a) by deleting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (b) of the
            definition of “electrical installation”; and

       (b) by inserting the word “or” at the end of paragraph (c) of the
            definition of “electrical installation”, and by inserting
            immediately thereafter the following paragraph:

                        “(d) an electric vehicle charger within the
                               meaning of the Electric Vehicles
                               Charging Act 2022;”.

Amendment of Land Transport Authority of Singapore
Act 1995

 99. The Land Transport Authority of Singapore Act 1995 is
amended —

       (a) by inserting, immediately after paragraph (fa) of
            section 6(1), the following paragraph:

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
126  NO. 43 OF 2022

                       “(fb) to regulate the supply of electric vehicle
                               chargers, the provision of electric vehicle
                               charging services and the operation of
                               charging stations under the Electric
                               Vehicles Charging Act 2022;”;

       (b) by deleting the word “and” at the end of
            section 6(1)(r)(vii);

       (c) by inserting the word “and” at the end of
            sub‑paragraph (viii) of section 6(1)(r), and by inserting
            immediately thereafter the following sub‑paragraph:

                               “(ix) all composition sums and financial
                                      penalties under the Electric Vehicles
                                      Charging Act 2022;”;

       (d) by deleting the full‑stop at the end of sub‑paragraph (c) of
            paragraph 16 of the Second Schedule and substituting a
            semi‑colon, and by inserting immediately thereafter the
            following sub‑paragraph:

                      “(d) a licence under the Electric Vehicles Charging

                                 Act 2022.”;

       (e) by inserting, immediately after paragraph 21 of the Second
            Schedule, the following paragraph:

                  “22. All fees and charges prescribed under the Electric

                    Vehicles Charging Act 2022.”; and

        (f) by inserting, immediately after item 7 of Part 2 of the Fifth
            Schedule, the following item:

                  “8. All provisions of the Electric Vehicles Charging Act 2022

                    and any subsidiary legislation made under that Act for the
                    purposes of that Act.”.

Saving and transitional provisions

 100.—(1) The Schedule has effect.

 (2) For a period of 2 years after the date of commencement of this
section, the Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the
Schedule by prescribing such additional provisions of a saving or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               127

transitional nature consequent on the enactment of this section as the
Minister may consider necessary or expedient.

 (3) Nothing in this section or the Schedule affects section 16 of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                         Section 100

                  SAVING AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Supply of EV chargers

 1. Despite any provision of this Act, every person who, immediately before
8 December 2023, carries on business of supplying EV chargers may continue to
undertake that activity —

        (a) for 6 months after that date; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             under section 7 for approval for the models of EV chargers to be
             supplied, for a further period ending on the happening of the earlier of
             the following:

                  (i) the date on which the LTA approves those models of
                      EV chargers under section 7(3);

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Use of EV chargers

 2. Despite any provision of this Act, every person who, immediately before
8 December 2023, has charge and control of an EV charger may continue to
charge an electric vehicle using the EV charger —

        (a) for 6 months after that date even if it is an unregistered EV charger; or

        (b) for 6 months after that date and, if within that period the person applies
             under section 19 to register that EV charger for charging an electric
             vehicle, for a further period ending on the happening of the earlier of
             the following:

                  (i) the date on which the LTA registers the EV charger under
                      section 19;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
128  NO. 43 OF 2022

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

Carrying on business of providing electric vehicle charging service, etc.

 3. Despite any provision of this Act, every person who, immediately before
8 December 2023, carries on business providing an electric vehicle charging
service or undertakes any other regulated activity may continue to provide the
service or undertake that activity —

        (a) for 12 months after that date; or

        (b) for 12 months after that date and, if within that period the person
             applies under section 42 for a licence under Part 6, for a further period
             ending on the happening of the earlier of the following:

                  (i) the date on which the LTA grants under section 43 a licence to
                      the person to provide the electric vehicle charging service or
                      undertake the regulated activity, as the case may be;

                 (ii) the date that the application is finally refused or is withdrawn.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Use of EV chargers by person other than person in paragraph 2

 4.—(1) This paragraph applies in relation to an EV charger under the charge and
control of a person (A) mentioned in paragraph 2.

 (2) Despite any provision of this Act —

        (a) A may allow an electric vehicle to be charged by another person (B)
             using the EV charger mentioned in paragraph 2; and

        (b) B may charge the electric vehicle using the EV charger mentioned in
             paragraph 2,

during the period mentioned in paragraph 2(a) or (b), whichever is applicable.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Saving and transitional provisions relating to EV chargers issued with
letter of no objection

 5.—(1) This paragraph applies in relation to an EV charger that is of a model of
EV charger for which a letter of no objection was issued before 8 December 2023
by the LTA or the Energy Market Authority of Singapore established by section 3
of the Energy Market Authority of Singapore Act 2001, or both (called in this
paragraph an LNO-issued EV charger).

 (2) Despite any provision of this Act, an LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a fixed EV charger; and

        (b) that has been supplied before 8 December 2023 and installed before
             8 December 2023,

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               129

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

may, on or after that date, be registered under section 19 despite not being certified
under section 23 or installed in compliance with section 24.

 (3) Despite any provision of this Act, an LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a non-fixed EV charger; and

        (b) that has been supplied before 8 December 2023 and is under the charge
             and control of a person immediately before 8 December 2023,

may, on or after that date, be registered under section 19 despite not being certified
under section 23.

 (4) Despite any provision of this Act, an LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a fixed EV charger;

        (b) that has been supplied before 8 December 2023 and has not been
             installed before 8 December 2023; and

        (c) that is installed in compliance with section 24 and certified under
             section 23 within 9 months after 8 December 2023,

may be registered under section 19 despite not being of a homologated model.

 (5) Despite any provision of this Act, an LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a fixed EV charger;

        (b) that is supplied after 8 December 2023 within the period in paragraph
             1(a) or (b); and

        (c) that is installed in compliance with section 24 and certified under
             section 23 within 9 months after 8 December 2023,

may be registered under section 19 despite not being of a homologated model.

 (6) Despite any provision of this Act, an LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a non-fixed EV charger;

        (b) that is supplied after 8 December 2023 within the period in paragraph
             1(a) or (b); and

        (c) that is certified under section 23 within 9 months after 8 December
             2023,

may be registered under section 19 despite not being of a homologated model.

 (7) Despite section 25(2), an LNO-issued EV charger that is registered under
section 19 pursuant to sub‑paragraph (2) or (3) is to be inspected and certified in
accordance with section 25, with the reference in section 25(2)(a) to the date of the
first lawful certification under section 23 in respect of the EV charger replaced

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
130  NO. 43 OF 2022

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

with a reference to the date of registration of the LNO-issued EV charger under
section 19.

 (8) Despite section 23(1), an individual may, for 9 months after 8 December
2023, certify an LNO-issued EV charger mentioned in sub‑paragraph (4), (5) or
(6) as fit for charging any electric vehicle in Singapore even if the LNO-issued EV
charger is not of a homologated model.

 (9) Despite section 23(2), a person may, for 9 months after 8 December 2023,
cause an individual to certify an LNO-issued EV charger mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (4), (5) or (6) as fit for charging any electric vehicle in
Singapore even if the LNO-issued EV charger is not of a homologated model.

 (10) Despite section 24(1), a person may, for 9 months after 8 December 2023,
install, or cause to be installed, a fixed LNO-issued EV charger mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (4) or (5) in any place in Singapore even if the LNO-issued EV
charger is not of a homologated model.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Saving and transitional provisions for EV charger without letter of no
objection

 6.—(1) This paragraph applies in relation to an EV charger that is of a model of
EV charger for which there was no letter of no objection issued before 8 December
2023 by the LTA or the Energy Market Authority of Singapore established by
section 3 of the Energy Market Authority of Singapore Act 2001, or both (called in
this paragraph a non-LNO-issued EV charger).

 (2) Despite any provision of this Act, a non-LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a fixed EV charger; and

        (b) that has been installed before 8 December 2023,

may be registered under section 19 if the LTA is satisfied with the documentary
evidence provided with the application for registration as to the fitness of the non-
LNO-issued EV charger for charging any electric vehicle in Singapore.

 (3) Despite any provision of this Act, a non-LNO-issued EV charger —

        (a) that is a non-fixed EV charger; and

        (b) that is under the charge and control of a person immediately before
             8 December 2023,

may be registered under section 19 if the LTA is satisfied with the documentary
evidence provided with the application for registration as to the fitness of the non-
LNO-issued EV charger for charging any electric vehicle in Singapore.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
ELECTRIC VEHICLES CHARGING                               131

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

 (4) Despite section 25(2), a non-LNO-issued EV charger that is registered under
section 19 pursuant to sub‑paragraph (2) or (3) is to be inspected and certified in
accordance with section 25, with the reference in section 25(2)(a) to the date of the
first lawful certification under section 23 in respect of the EV charger replaced
with a reference to the date of registration of the non-LNO-issued EV charger
under section 19.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Saving and transitional provisions for mobile EV chargers

 7.—(1) Despite any provision of this Act, every person who, immediately
before 8 December 2023, has charge and control of a mobile EV charger may
continue to charge an electric vehicle using the mobile EV charger, and may allow
an electric vehicle to be charged by any other person using the mobile EV charger,
for 6 months after that date.

 (2) Despite any provision of this Act, every person who is allowed by any person
to charge an electric vehicle using a mobile EV charger under sub‑paragraph (1),
may charge the electric vehicle using the mobile EV charger during the period
mentioned in that sub‑paragraph.

 (3) In this paragraph, “mobile EV charger” means an EV charger that does not
need to be powered by a connection to an electrical installation during the period
in which the battery of an electric vehicle is being charged.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Saving and transitional provisions for applications for building and
electrical works

 8.—(1) Despite section 61(1), Part 8 does not apply to any defined works
mentioned in section 61(1) carried out in any specified development.

 (2) In sub‑paragraph (1), “specified development” —

        (a) in relation to any building works, means any development within the
             meaning of section 60 in respect of which an application for
             permission under Part 3 of the Planning Act 1998 was made to a
             competent authority before 8 December 2023, even if the permission is
             granted on or after that date; and

        (b) in relation to any electrical work, means any land or premises on which
             any electrical work is or is to be carried out, and in respect of which an
             application for an increase in the approved electrical load was made to
             a market support services licensee before 8 December 2023, even if the
             application is granted on or after that date.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
132  NO. 43 OF 2022

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

Saving and transitional provisions for sandbox trials

 9.—(1) This paragraph applies to any person or class of persons who, before
8 December 2023, has been granted approval by the LTA that has not been
cancelled, to undertake or participate in a trial for any EV charger that is known as
a sandbox trial on terms and conditions of approval that may be amended by the
LTA from time to time.

 (2) Despite any provision of this Act, the person or class of persons mentioned in
sub‑paragraph (1) may continue to undertake or participate in the sandbox trial in
accordance with the approval, for a period starting on 8 December 2023 and
ending on the earliest of the following dates:

        (a) 2 years after 8 December 2023;

        (b) the expiry date of the sandbox trial as determined by the LTA;

        (c) the date the approval of the sandbox trial is cancelled in accordance
             with the terms and conditions of the approval.

 (3) Parts 2, 3, 5 (except sections 31 to 39), 6 and 7 do not apply to the person, or
any person within the class of persons, mentioned in sub‑paragraph (1) for the
period mentioned in sub‑paragraph (2)(a), (b) or (c), whichever is applicable.

                                                                                    [S 795/2023 wef 08/12/2023]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
