THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            NURSES AND MIDWIVES ACT 1999

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                                                                2020 Ed.

Nurses and Midwives Act 1999

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                        SINGAPORE NURSING BOARD

 3. Establishment and membership of Board
 4. Removal of appointed member from office
 5. Vacancy in Board
 6. Chairperson of Board
 7. Meetings and quorum
 8. Functions of Board
 9. Appointment of executive secretary and other employees
10. Appointment of committees
11. Payment of members of Board and of committees

                                        PART 3

                     REGISTRATION AND ENROLMENT

12. Registrar
13. Register and Roll
14. Registration and enrolment
15. Medical examination, induction programme, competency

         assessment and provisional registration and enrolment
16. Temporary registration and enrolment
17. General provisions for registration and enrolment
18. Practising certificate
19. Cancellation, etc., of registration or enrolment
20. Costs
21. Appeal
22. Conviction final and conclusive

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                                          2

Section   Application for re-registration, re‑enrolment or re‑certification
          Publication of registered nurses, etc., with practising certificates
   23.    Certificate of Registrar
   24.
   25.

                                        PART 4

                                      OFFENCES

26. False assumption of title of nurse, etc.
27. Practice of nursing or midwifery by unqualified person
28. Employment of unqualified person to practise nursing or

         midwifery
29. Nurse’s agents
30. Fraudulent registration, etc.

                                        PART 5

                       ADVANCED PRACTICE NURSES

31. Interpretation of this Part
32. Certification of Advanced Practice Nurses, etc.
33. Publication of list of Advanced Practice Nurses
34. Certificate of Registrar
35. False assumption of title of Advanced Practice Nurse, etc.

          PART 6

          MISCELLANEOUS

36.       Inspectors
37.       Complaints Committees
38.       Powers of Complaints Committees to require attendance of
          witnesses, etc.
39.       Legal assessor and medical assessor
40.       Service of documents
41.       Where Board member is in public service
42.       Funds of Board
43.       No action against Board in absence of bad faith
43A.      Composition of offences
44.       Power of Board to make regulations

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
3        Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

Section  Interpretation of this Part
         Persons registered and enrolled under repealed Act
   45.   Saving of certificates
   46.   Pending disciplinary proceedings
   47.
   48.

An Act to establish the Singapore Nursing Board, to provide for the
  registration and enrolment of nurses, the registration of midwives
  and the certification of Advanced Practice Nurses and for matters
  connected therewith.

                                                                  [1 May 2000]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Nurses and Midwives Act 1999.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “accredited” means accredited by the Board;
      “Advanced Practice Nurse” means a registered nurse who is
         certified as an Advanced Practice Nurse under section 32;
      “appointed member” means a member appointed under
         section 3(2)(d);
      “Board” means the Singapore Nursing Board established under
         section 3;
      “certificate of enrolment” means a certificate of enrolment
         granted under section 17;
      “certificate of registration” means a certificate of registration
         granted under section 17;

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              4

“Complaints Committee” means a Complaints Committee
   appointed under section 37;

“enrolled” means enrolled under section 14, 15 or 16, and
   “enrol”, “enrolling” and “enrolment” have corresponding
   meanings;

“enrolled nurse” means a person who is enrolled as an enrolled
   nurse, and includes a person who is deemed to be enrolled as
   an enrolled nurse under section 46(2);

“medical practitioner” means a person registered under the
   Medical Registration Act 1997;

“member” means a member of the Board;

“practising certificate” means a practising certificate issued by
   the Board under section 18;

“Register” means the Register of Nurses or Register of
   Midwives kept under section 13 (as the case may be) or
   both the Register of Nurses and the Register of Midwives;

“registered” means registered under section 14, 15 or 16, and
   “register”, “registering” and “registration” have
   corresponding meanings;

“registered midwife” means a person who is registered as a
   registered midwife, and includes a person who is deemed to
   be registered as a registered midwife under section 46(3);

“registered nurse” means a person who is registered as a
   registered nurse, and includes a person who is deemed to be
   registered as a registered nurse under section 46(1);

“Registrar” means the Registrar of the Board, and includes any
   individual acting in that capacity;

“Roll” means the Roll of Nurses kept under section 13.

                                                                    [5/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
5  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

   PART 2

   SINGAPORE NURSING BOARD

Establishment and membership of Board

 3.—(1) A body called the Singapore Nursing Board is established,
which is a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal.

   (2) The Board consists of the following members:

   (a) the Director‑General of Health or his or her representative;

                                                                        [Act 11 of 2023 wef 01/05/2023]

   (b) the Director-General of Education or his or her
        representative;

   (c) the Chief Nursing Officer;

   (d) 14 other members to be appointed by the Minister, of
        whom at least —

   (i) 9 must be registered or enrolled nurses with at least
       5 years’ experience in the practice of nursing; and

   (ii) 2 must be registered midwives with at least 5 years’
        experience in the practice of midwifery.

 (3) Only a citizen or permanent resident of Singapore may be
appointed as a member.

 (4) An appointed member holds office for a term of 3 years or such
shorter period as the Minister may in any case determine, and is
eligible for re‑appointment at the end of his or her term of office.

Removal of appointed member from office

 4. The Minister may remove an appointed member from office if
the member —

       (a) is an undischarged bankrupt;

       (b) has been found guilty in Singapore or elsewhere of
            professional misconduct;

       (c) has been convicted in Singapore or elsewhere of an offence
            involving dishonesty, fraud or moral turpitude;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              6

(d) is unable to satisfactorily carry out the duties of his or her
     office because of a mental or physical disability; or

          (e) is absent without leave of the Board from 3 consecutive
              meetings of the Board or any of its committees.

Vacancy in Board

 5.—(1) The office of an appointed member becomes vacant if —

       (a) the member dies;

       (b) the member’s term of office expires;

       (c) the member resigns by written notice to the Minister;

       (d) the member ceases to satisfy the qualifications referred to
            in section 3 by virtue of which the member was eligible for
            appointment; or

       (e) the member is removed from office under section 4.

 (2) Upon the office of an appointed member becoming vacant, the
Minister must appoint a person to the vacant office, and the person so
appointed holds office for the remainder of the term for which the
person’s predecessor would have held office if the vacancy had not
occurred.

 (3) The Board may act despite any vacancy in the Board.

 (4) No act done by or by the authority of the Board is invalid in
consequence of any defect that is afterwards discovered in the
appointment of the members or any of them.

Chairperson of Board

 6.—(1) The Minister must appoint one of the members as the
Chairperson of the Board.

 (2) The Chairperson of the Board presides at any meeting of the
Board and, in the Chairperson’s absence, a member whom the
members present may elect presides at that meeting.

Meetings and quorum
 7.—(1) At any meeting of the Board, 7 members form a quorum.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
7  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

 (2) Any decision at a meeting of the Board is to be adopted by a
simple majority of the votes of the members present and voting and,
in the case of an equality of votes, the member presiding at that
meeting has a casting vote.

 (3) Subject to this Act and the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Board may regulate its own procedure.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

Functions of Board

 8. The functions of the Board are —

       (a) to approve or reject applications for registration and
            enrolment of nurses and for registration of midwives;

       (b) to approve or reject applications for certification of
            Advanced Practice Nurses;

       (c) to issue practising certificates;

       (d) to accredit —

               (i) courses in Singapore for the purposes of registration
                   and enrolment of nurses, registration of midwives
                   and certification of Advanced Practice Nurses;

              (ii) courses in Singapore which provide qualifications in
                   nursing or midwifery in addition to those required for
                   registration and enrolment; and

             (iii) the institutions in Singapore offering any of these
                   courses;

       (e) to regulate standards for the training and education of
            registered nurses, enrolled nurses, registered midwives and
            Advanced Practice Nurses;

        (f) to regulate the standards and scope of practice of registered
            nurses, enrolled nurses, registered midwives and
            Advanced Practice Nurses;

       (g) to regulate the professional conduct and ethics of
            registered nurses, enrolled nurses, registered midwives
            and Advanced Practice Nurses; and

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              8

(h) generally to do all such acts, matters and things as are
     necessary or authorised to be carried out under this Act.

Appointment of executive secretary and other employees

 9. The Board may appoint an executive secretary and such other
employees on such terms as the Board may determine.

Appointment of committees

 10.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more committees for any
general or special purpose which, in the opinion of the Board, may be
better dealt with or managed by a committee.

 (2) The Board may delegate to any committee so appointed, with or
without restrictions or conditions as the Board thinks fit, any of the
powers or functions which may be exercised or performed by the
Board.

 (3) The number and term of office of the members of a committee
and the number of those members necessary to form a quorum are to
be fixed by the Board.

 (4) A committee may include persons who are not members of the
Board.

 (5) This section does not apply to a Complaints Committee.

Payment of members of Board and of committees

 11. There are to be paid to —

       (a) the members; and

       (b) the members of any committee appointed under section 10
            and the members of any Complaints Committee appointed
            under section 37,

who are not public officers such fees as may be approved by the
Minister.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
9          Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                      2020 Ed.

           PART 3

           REGISTRATION AND ENROLMENT

Registrar

 12.—(1) There must be a chief executive of the Board called the
Registrar of the Board, whose appointment and removal must be in
accordance with the Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Board may, subject to the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, appoint an individual to act temporarily as the Registrar
during any period, or during all periods, when the Registrar —

   (a) is absent from duty or Singapore; or

   (b) is, for any reason, unable to perform the duties of the
        office.

                                                                                                     [5/2018]

Register and Roll

 13.—(1) In addition to duties under the Public Sector (Governance)
Act 2018, the Registrar must keep and maintain —

       (a) a register to be called the Register of Nurses which consists
            of such parts as the Board may determine;

       (b) a roll to be called the Roll of Nurses which consists of such
            parts as the Board may determine; and

       (c) a register to be called the Register of Midwives.

                                                                                                             [5/2018]

 (2) The Registrar must enter in the appropriate part of the Register
or Roll, as the case may require, the name of every person who is
registered or enrolled, together with such other particulars as the
Board may determine.

 (3) Every registered nurse, enrolled nurse and registered midwife
must inform the Registrar in writing of any change in his or her name,
working address, residential address, or such of his or her other
particulars as may be prescribed, within 28 days of the change.

 (4) A person who makes a report of a change in his or her residential
address under section 10 of the National Registration Act 1965 is

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              10

deemed to have complied with subsection (3) on the date on which
the person makes the report.

 (5) The Registrar may disclose, in accordance with any prescribed
conditions, any information in the Register or Roll to any prescribed
person.

Registration and enrolment

 14.—(1) Subject to sections 15 to 17, a person who satisfies the
Board that —

       (a) the person has successfully completed —

               (i) a course in nursing accredited for the purposes of this
                   subsection in an accredited institution; or

              (ii) a course in nursing outside Singapore which in the
                   opinion of the Board is equivalent to a course
                   mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i); and

       (b) the person has fulfilled such other conditions as the Board
            may specify for the person’s case,

may be registered as a registered nurse.

 (2) Subject to sections 15 to 17, a person who satisfies the Board
that —

       (a) the person has successfully completed —

               (i) a course in nursing accredited for the purposes of this
                   subsection in an accredited institution; or

              (ii) a course in nursing outside Singapore which in the
                   opinion of the Board is equivalent to a course
                   mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i); and

       (b) the person has fulfilled such other conditions as the Board
            may specify for the person’s case,

may be enrolled as an enrolled nurse.

 (3) Subject to sections 15 to 17, a person who satisfies the Board
that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
11  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

    (a) the person has successfully completed —

    (i) a course in midwifery accredited for the purposes of
        this subsection in an accredited institution; or

    (ii) a course in midwifery outside Singapore which in the
         opinion of the Board is equivalent to a course
         mentioned in sub‑paragraph (i); and

    (b) the person has fulfilled such other conditions as the Board
         may specify for the person’s case,

may be registered as a registered midwife.

 (4) The registration of a person as a registered nurse or enrolment of
a person as an enrolled nurse must be in that part of the Register of
Nurses or Roll which the Board considers appropriate to the person’s
case.

Medical examination, induction programme, competency
assessment and provisional registration and enrolment

 15.—(1) Before registering or enrolling a person under section 14,
the Board may require the person to submit himself or herself to a
medical examination by a medical practitioner approved by the Board
to determine if the person can perform satisfactorily the functions of a
registered nurse, an enrolled nurse or a registered midwife (as the
case may be) and the Board may refuse to register or enrol the person
if the person fails to submit himself or herself to such an examination.

 (2) The medical examination must be at the person’s own expense.

 (3) Before registering or enrolling a person under section 14, the
Board may require the person to undergo such induction programme
as may be approved by the Board, and the Board may refuse to
register or enrol the person if the person fails to undergo or complete
such induction programme.

 (4) Before registering or enrolling a person under section 14, the
Board may require the person to undergo such competency
assessment as may be approved by the Board, and the Board may
refuse to register or enrol the person if the person fails or fails to
undergo the assessment.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              12

 (5) Subject to section 17, the Board may provisionally register as a
registered nurse or registered midwife, or provisionally enrol as an
enrolled nurse —

(a) a person who has been required under subsection (1) to
     submit himself or herself to a medical examination;

(b) a person who has been required under subsection (3) to
     undergo an induction programme; or

          (c) a person who has been required under subsection (4) to
              undergo a competency assessment.

 (6) The provisional registration of a person as a registered nurse or
provisional enrolment of a person as an enrolled nurse must be in that
part of the Register of Nurses or Roll which the Board considers
appropriate to the person’s case.

 (7) If a person who is provisionally registered or enrolled becomes
registered or enrolled under section 14, the person’s registration or
enrolment dates from the person’s provisional registration or
enrolment.

Temporary registration and enrolment

 16.—(1) Subject to section 17, where a person has fulfilled such
conditions as the Board may specify for the person’s case, the Board
may temporarily register the person as a registered nurse or registered
midwife, or temporarily enrol the person as an enrolled nurse, in order
to enable the person —

       (a) to teach, undertake research or study in Singapore;

       (b) to undergo training under a training scheme approved by
            the Board; or

       (c) to provide voluntary nursing or midwifery service under a
            volunteer nursing scheme or volunteer midwifery scheme
            approved by the Board.

 (2) The temporary registration of a person as a registered nurse or
temporary enrolment of a person as an enrolled nurse must be in that
part of the Register of Nurses or Roll which the Board considers
appropriate to the person’s case.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
13  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

(3) A temporary registration or enrolment —

    (a) must be for a period not exceeding 2 years; and

    (b) may be renewed for periods not exceeding 12 months at a
         time.

General provisions for registration and enrolment

 17.—(1) Every application for registration or enrolment must be
made in such form, and must be accompanied by such documents,
particulars and fee, as may be prescribed by the Board.

 (2) The Board may, in registering or enrolling a person, impose
such conditions on the person as the Board considers appropriate to
the person’s case, and may at any time vary or revoke the conditions
or impose new conditions on the person.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (2), the conditions may include —

       (a) a condition limiting the fields of nursing or midwifery (as
            the case may be) in which the person may practise; and

       (b) in the case of a person to be registered or enrolled under
            section 14, a condition that the person must work for a
            specified period —

               (i) in a hospital, nursing home, medical clinic, or other
                   organisation, approved by the Board; and

              (ii) under the supervision of a person, or a person of a
                   particular class, approved by the Board.

 (4) Upon the registration or enrolment of a person, the Board must
grant to the person a certificate of registration or certificate of
enrolment, as the case may be.

 (5) The Board may refuse to register or enrol any person who, in the
opinion of the Board —

       (a) may not be registered or enrolled in accordance with
            section 14 or 16, as the case may be; or

       (b) is not of good reputation and character.

 (6) The Board may refuse to register or enrol any person if the
Board is satisfied that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              14

(a) the person had his or her registration or enrolment as a
     nurse or his or her registration as a midwife in any country
     withdrawn, suspended or cancelled; or

(b) because of a mental or physical disability, the person is
     unable to perform satisfactorily the functions of a
     registered nurse, an enrolled nurse or a registered
     midwife, as the case may be.

 (7) Where the Board refuses to register or enrol any person, the
Board must, by written notice, inform the person of such refusal.

 (8) A person who is aggrieved by a refusal of the Board to register
or enrol the person may, within one month of the notice given under
subsection (7), appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Practising certificate

 18.—(1) A registered nurse, an enrolled nurse, a registered midwife
or an Advanced Practice Nurse who desires to obtain a practising
certificate must apply to the Board in such form and manner as the
Board may prescribe.

 (2) The application referred to in subsection (1) must be
accompanied by the prescribed fee.

 (3) A practising certificate is valid for such period as the Board may
determine.

 (4) An application for the renewal of a practising certificate must be
made no later than one month before the expiry of the practising
certificate and must be made in such form and manner as the Board
may prescribe.

 (5) A registered nurse, an enrolled nurse, a registered midwife or an
Advanced Practice Nurse who applies for a practising certificate later
than one month before the expiry of the practising certificate is liable
to pay to the Board such late application fee as the Board may
prescribe.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
15           Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                     2020 Ed.

(6) The Board may ––

    (a) refuse to grant a practising certificate to a registered nurse,
         an enrolled nurse, a registered midwife or an Advanced
         Practice Nurse; or

    (b) refuse to renew the practising certificate of a registered
         nurse, an enrolled nurse, a registered midwife or an
         Advanced Practice Nurse,

if the registered nurse, enrolled nurse, registered midwife or
Advanced Practice Nurse (as the case may be) fails to comply with
any prescribed condition.

(7) Where —

    (a) a registered nurse (including an Advanced Practice Nurse),
         an enrolled nurse or a registered midwife has had his or her
         registration or enrolment cancelled or suspended on any of
         the grounds specified in section 19(1)(a) to (f); or

    (b) an Advanced Practice Nurse has had his or her certification
         cancelled or suspended under section 19(3),

he or she must surrender his or her practising certificate to the Board
within 14 days of such cancellation or suspension and, in the case of
such cancellation, his or her practising certificate must be cancelled.

 (8) Where the practising certificate of an Advanced Practice Nurse
has been cancelled in accordance with subsection (7)(b), the Board
may issue him or her a practising certificate as a registered nurse in
lieu thereof.

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (7) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

Cancellation, etc., of registration or enrolment

 19.—(1) The Board may exercise any one or more of the powers
mentioned in subsection (2) and, where applicable, subsection (3), if
the Board is satisfied that a registered nurse, an enrolled nurse, a
registered midwife or an Advanced Practice Nurse —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              16

(a) has obtained his or her registration as a registered nurse or
     registered midwife, enrolment as an enrolled nurse or
     certification as an Advanced Practice Nurse, fraudulently
     or by a materially incorrect statement;

(b) has contravened section 13(3) or any condition imposed on
     him or her under subsection (2)(c) or (12) or section 17(2),
     or to which he or she is subject by virtue of section 46(4);

          (c) has had his or her registration or enrolment as a nurse,
              registration as a midwife or certification as an Advanced
              Practice Nurse, in a territory outside Singapore, cancelled
              or suspended;

(d) has been convicted of an offence in Singapore or elsewhere
     which in the opinion of the Board renders him or her unfit
     to remain on the Register or the Roll or to practise as an
     Advanced Practice Nurse;

          (e) has been guilty of any misconduct, or negligence, which in
              the opinion of the Board renders him or her unfit to remain
              on the Register or the Roll or to practise as an Advanced
              Practice Nurse;

          (f) is unable to perform satisfactorily the functions of a
              registered nurse, an enrolled nurse, a registered midwife or
              an Advanced Practice Nurse because of a mental or
              physical disability;

(g) has not renewed his or her practising certificate for a
     continuous period of not less than the prescribed period; or

(h) is deceased.

(2) The powers mentioned in subsection (1) are as follows:

(a) cancel the registration of a registered nurse (including an
     Advanced Practice Nurse) or registered midwife or the
     enrolment of an enrolled nurse;

(b) suspend the registration of a registered nurse (including an
     Advanced Practice Nurse) or registered midwife or the
     enrolment of an enrolled nurse for a period of not more
     than 2 years;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
17  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

    (c) order that the registration of a registered nurse (including
        an Advanced Practice Nurse) or registered midwife or the
        enrolment of an enrolled nurse be conditional on his or her
        compliance with such conditions as may be imposed by the
        Board;

    (d) impose on the registered nurse, enrolled nurse, registered
         midwife or Advanced Practice Nurse, a financial penalty
         not exceeding $2,000;

    (e) censure the registered nurse, enrolled nurse, registered
        midwife or Advanced Practice Nurse; or

    (f) issue to the registered nurse, enrolled nurse, registered
        midwife or Advanced Practice Nurse, a written warning.

 (3) Where the Board is satisfied that there are grounds under
subsection (1) to exercise its powers against an Advanced Practice
Nurse, the Board may, in addition to or in lieu of any power
mentioned in subsection (2) ––

    (a) cancel the certification of the Advanced Practice Nurse or
         suspend his or her certification for a period of not more
         than 2 years, without cancelling or suspending his or her
         registration as a registered nurse; or

    (b) order that the certification of the Advanced Practice Nurse
         be conditional on his or her compliance with such
         conditions as may be imposed by the Board.

 (4) Despite subsection (3), where an Advanced Practice Nurse has
had his or her registration as a registered nurse cancelled or
suspended under subsection (2), his or her certification as an
Advanced Practice Nurse must be correspondingly cancelled or
suspended for the same period.

 (5) The Board must, before exercising any of its powers under
subsection (2) or (3) —

    (a) notify the person of its intention to exercise the power and
         give the person an opportunity to be heard either personally
         or by counsel; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              18

(b) if the complaint or matter against the person has been
     referred by the Board to a Complaints Committee under
     section 37(1), consider the findings of the Committee as
     reported to the Board.

 (6) A person whose registration or enrolment is cancelled or
suspended under subsection (2) on any of the grounds specified in
subsection (1)(a) to (f) must surrender the person’s certificate of
registration or certificate of enrolment (as the case may be) to the
Board within 14 days of such cancellation or suspension.

(7) An Advanced Practice Nurse ––

(a) who is required under subsection (6) to surrender his or her
     certificate of registration as a registered nurse; or

(b) whose certification as an Advanced Practice Nurse is
     cancelled or suspended under subsection (3),

must surrender his or her Advanced Practice Nurse certificate to the
Board within 14 days of the cancellation or suspension of his or her
registration as a registered nurse or certification as an Advanced
Practice Nurse, as the case may be.

 (8) Where an Advanced Practice Nurse has had his or her
certification cancelled or suspended under subsection (3) or (4), he
or she is not to be regarded as being certified as an Advanced Practice
Nurse, but immediately upon the expiry of the period of suspension
(if any) his or her rights and privileges as an Advanced Practice Nurse
are revived, and the Board must return his or her Advanced Practice
Nurse certificate to him or her.

 (9) Any person who fails to comply with subsection (6) or (7) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (10) Where the registration or enrolment of a person has been
suspended under subsection (2), the person is not to be regarded as
being registered or enrolled (as the case may be) for the purposes of
this Act.

 (11) Subject to subsection (12), immediately upon the expiry of the
period of suspension, the person’s rights and privileges as a registered

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
19  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

nurse, an enrolled nurse or a registered midwife (as the case may be)
are revived and the Board must return the person’s certificate of
registration or certificate of enrolment to the person.

 (12) Where the registration or enrolment of a person has been
suspended under subsection (2) on the ground referred to in
subsection (1)(f), the Board may, upon the expiry of the period of
suspension, order that the person’s registration or enrolment (as the
case may be) be conditional on the person’s compliance with such
conditions as may be imposed by the Board.

(13) Where the person in question is both —

    (a) a registered nurse or an enrolled nurse; and

    (b) a registered midwife,

the Board may take any action under this section in relation to both
the person’s registration as a registered nurse and the person’s
registration as a registered midwife, or both the person’s enrolment as
an enrolled nurse and the person’s registration as a registered midwife
(as the case may be) without having to institute separate proceedings.

Costs

 20.—(1) Where the Board is satisfied that there are grounds under
section 19(1)(a), (b), (d), (e) or (f) to exercise its powers against a
registered nurse, an enrolled nurse, a registered midwife or an
Advanced Practice Nurse, the Board may, in addition to any power
which the Board may exercise under section 19, order the registered
nurse, enrolled nurse, registered midwife or Advanced Practice Nurse
(as the case may be) to pay to the Board such sums as the Board thinks
fit in respect of the costs and expenses of the inquiry by the Board.

 (2) The General Division of the High Court has jurisdiction to tax
the sums ordered to be paid under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The sums ordered to be paid under subsection (1) may be
recovered as a debt in any court with competent jurisdiction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              20

Appeal

 21.—(1) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of the Board
under section 19(2) or (3) may, within 3 months of the date of the
decision or within such further period as the General Division of the
High Court may allow, appeal to the General Division of the High
Court against the decision.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) There is no appeal from a decision of the General Division of
the High Court.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Conviction final and conclusive

 22. The Board in taking action under section 19, and the General
Division of the High Court on appeal from an order of the Board
under section 19, must accept the conviction of a registered nurse, an
enrolled nurse or a registered midwife for a criminal offence as final
and conclusive.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Application for re-registration, re‑enrolment or
re‑certification

 23.—(1) A person whose ––

       (a) registration or enrolment has been cancelled under
            section 19(2); or

       (b) certification as an Advanced Practice Nurse has been
            cancelled under section 19(3) or (4),

may apply to the Board to be re-registered as a registered nurse or
registered midwife, re‑enrolled as an enrolled nurse or re‑certified as
an Advanced Practice Nurse.

 (2) The Board may, after considering all relevant circumstances,
and upon the compliance by the applicant with all conditions imposed
by the Board (if any) and the payment of the prescribed fee,
re‑register or re‑enrol the applicant or re‑certify the applicant as an
Advanced Practice Nurse.

 (3) Where the registration or enrolment of a person or certification
of an Advanced Practice Nurse has been cancelled on any of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
21  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                    2020 Ed.

grounds referred to in section 19(1)(b) to (e), no application for the
re‑registration, re‑enrolment or re‑certification of that person may be
made to the Board —

    (a) before the expiry of 3 years from the date of the
         cancellation; or

    (b) more than once in any period of 12 months.

Publication of registered nurses, etc., with practising
certificates

 24. The Registrar must prepare and publish in the Gazette a list of
the names, addresses and qualifications of all registered nurses,
enrolled nurses and registered midwives who have in force practising
certificates.

Certificate of Registrar

 25. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar to
the effect that, at any time or during any period specified in the
certificate, any person was or was not a registered nurse, an enrolled
nurse or a registered midwife, or had or did not have in force a
practising certificate, or as to any entry in the Register or Roll, or the
removal from the Register or Roll of any entry is, in the absence of
proof to the contrary, and without further proof of the signature
appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the matters
specified in the certificate.

                                    PART 4
                                  OFFENCES
False assumption of title of nurse, etc.
 26.—(1) Any person who —
       (a) not being a qualified nurse, takes or uses the name or title
            of nurse in any language, either alone or in combination
            with any other words or letters, or any name, title, addition,
            description, uniform or badge, implying that the person is a
            qualified nurse or that the person is qualified to carry out an
            act of nursing;

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              22

(b) not being a qualified midwife, takes or uses the name or
     title of midwife or its equivalent in any language, either
     alone or in combination with any other words or letters, or
     any name, title, addition, description, uniform or badge,
     implying that the person is a qualified midwife or that the
     person is qualified to practise midwifery;

          (c) being a person whose name is included in any part of the
              Register or Roll, takes or uses any name, title, addition or
              description or otherwise does any act which falsely implies
              that the person’s name is included in some other part of the
              Register or Roll, as the case may be;

(d) knowing that some other person is not a qualified nurse and
     with intent to deceive, makes any statement or does any act
     calculated to suggest that that other person is a nurse or
     qualified nurse; or

          (e) knowing that some other person is not a qualified midwife
              and with intent to deceive, makes any statement or does
              any act calculated to suggest that that other person is a
              midwife or qualified midwife,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

(2) For the purposes of this section and sections 27, 28 and 29 —

“act of nursing” means an act of nursing in —

          (a) the observation, care and counsel of the ill, injured or
               infirm;

          (b) the maintenance of health or prevention of illness of
               others; or

          (c) the supervision or teaching of nursing,

          the proper carrying out of which requires skill and knowledge
          acquired by undergoing an accredited course of nursing or an
          equivalent course;

“qualified midwife” means a registered midwife who holds a
   valid practising certificate authorising him or her to practise
   midwifery;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
23  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

    “qualified nurse” means a registered or enrolled nurse who holds
       a valid practising certificate authorising him or her to practise
       nursing.

Practice of nursing or midwifery by unqualified person

 27.—(1) No person other than a qualified nurse may carry out any
act of nursing for a fee or reward.

 (2) No person other than a qualified midwife may attend a woman
at childbirth for a fee or reward.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who carries out any
act of nursing while undergoing a course in nursing if the act is
carried out —

       (a) under the supervision of a registered or enrolled nurse; and

       (b) in an organisation approved by the Board.

 (5) Subsection (2) does not apply to a person who attends a woman
at childbirth while undergoing a course in midwifery if the attendance
is carried out —

       (a) under the supervision of a registered midwife; and

       (b) in an organisation approved by the Board.

 (6) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to —

       (a) a medical practitioner;

       (b) a person rendering assistance in an emergency; or

       (c) a person of a prescribed description or class carrying out
            such act, or acting in such circumstances, as may be
            prescribed for the person’s case.

 (7) A person is not entitled to demand, claim, accept, receive, retain
or sue for or recover any fee or charge in any court for any act done in
contravention of this section.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              24

Employment of unqualified person to practise nursing or
midwifery

 28.—(1) A person must not employ or engage a person who is not a
qualified nurse to carry out any act of nursing.

 (2) A person must not employ or engage a person who is not a
qualified midwife to attend a woman at childbirth.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (4) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to the employment or
engagement of —

(a) a medical practitioner;

(b) a person to care for —

          (i) the person employing or engaging him or her; or

          (ii) a family member, relative or friend of the person
               employing or engaging him or her; or

          (c) a person of a prescribed description or class.

 (5) In any proceeding for an offence under this section, it is a
defence for a defendant to prove that —

(a) the defendant did not know that the person concerned was
     not a qualified nurse or qualified midwife, as the case may
     be; and

(b) the defendant had exercised due diligence to ascertain if
     that person was a qualified nurse or qualified midwife, as
     the case may be.

Nurse’s agents

 29.—(1) A nurse’s agent must not —

       (a) arrange for a person who is not a qualified nurse to carry
            out any act of nursing;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
25  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

    (b) arrange for a person who is not a qualified midwife to
         attend a woman at childbirth; or

    (c) arrange for a registered nurse, an enrolled nurse or a
        registered midwife to work in contravention of the
        conditions of his or her registration or enrolment.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent conviction, to a
fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) In any proceeding for an offence in respect of a contravention of
subsection (1)(a) or (b), it is a defence for a defendant to prove that —

    (a) the defendant did not know that the person concerned was
         not a qualified nurse or qualified midwife, as the case may
         be; and

    (b) the defendant had exercised due diligence to ascertain if
         that person was a qualified nurse or qualified midwife, as
         the case may be.

 (4) In any proceeding for an offence in respect of a contravention of
subsection (1)(c), it is a defence for a defendant to prove that —

    (a) the defendant was not aware that the registration or
         enrolment of the person concerned is subject to the
         condition which was contravened; and

    (b) the defendant had exercised due diligence to ascertain the
         conditions to which the registration or enrolment of that
         person is subject.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (1), “nurse’s agent” means a
person who carries on, for a fee or reward, the business of arranging
the supply of the services of a nurse or a midwife.

Fraudulent registration, etc.

 30. Any person who —

       (a) procures or attempts to procure registration, enrolment, a
            certificate of registration, a certificate of enrolment or a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              26

          practising certificate, by knowingly making or producing
          or causing to be made or produced any false or fraudulent
          declaration, certification, application or representation
          whether in writing or otherwise;

(b) wilfully makes or causes to be made any false entry in the
     Register or Roll;

          (c) forges or alters a certificate of registration, a certificate of
              enrolment or a practising certificate;

(d) fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine a certificate of
     registration, a certificate of enrolment or a practising
     certificate which the person knows or has reason to believe
     is forged or altered; or

          (e) buys, sells or fraudulently obtains a certificate of
              registration, a certificate of enrolment or a practising
              certificate,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, to a fine not exceeding $20,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                    PART 5
                   ADVANCED PRACTICE NURSES
Interpretation of this Part
 31. In this Part —
      “Advanced Practice Nurse certificate” means an Advanced
         Practice Nurse certificate issued under section 32;
      “Advanced Practice Nurse Register” means the Advanced
         Practice Nurse Register kept under section 32.

Certification of Advanced Practice Nurses, etc.
 32.—(1) The Registrar must keep and maintain a register to be

called the Advanced Practice Nurse Register which consists of such
parts as the Board may determine.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
27  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

(2) A registered nurse who —

    (a) holds such qualification, or has gained such special
         knowledge, in a specialised branch of nursing as the
         Board may approve;

    (b) has such experience in that branch of nursing as the Board
         may require; and

    (c) has fulfilled such further conditions as the Board may
        specify,

is eligible to apply to the Board to be certified as an Advanced
Practice Nurse.

 (3) Upon the approval of an application referred to in
subsection (2), the Board must —

    (a) register the applicant as an Advanced Practice Nurse in the
         part of the Advanced Practice Nurse Register that the
         Board considers appropriate to the applicant’s case; and

    (b) upon payment of the prescribed fee, issue to the applicant
         an Advanced Practice Nurse certificate.

 (4) Despite subsection (2), the Board may refuse to certify any
person as an Advanced Practice Nurse who, in the opinion of the
Board —

    (a) is not of good reputation and character;

    (b) has had the person’s certification as an Advanced Practice
         Nurse or its equivalent in any territory outside Singapore
         withdrawn, suspended or cancelled; or

    (c) because of a mental or physical disability, is unable to
        perform satisfactorily the functions of an Advanced
        Practice Nurse.

 (5) Where the Board refuses to certify any person as an Advanced
Practice Nurse, the Board must, by written notice, inform the person
of such refusal.

 (6) Any person who is aggrieved by a refusal of the Board to certify
the person as an Advanced Practice Nurse may, within one month of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              28

the notice given under subsection (5), appeal to the Minister whose
decision is final.

 (7) The Registrar may disclose, in accordance with any prescribed
conditions, any information in the Advanced Practice Nurse Register
to any prescribed person.

 (8) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations —

(a) to provide for the form of the Advanced Practice Nurse
     Register and the manner in which it must be kept;

(b) to regulate the alteration or correction of the Advanced
     Practice Nurse Register;

          (c) to provide for matters relating to the certification of
              persons as Advanced Practice Nurses;

(d) to regulate the re-certification of an Advanced Practice
     Nurse whose certification has been cancelled;

          (e) to regulate the procedure for appeals by any person against
              a refusal of the Board to certify the person as an Advanced
              Practice Nurse or the cancellation of the person’s
              certification;

          (f) to provide for the form of the Advanced Practice Nurse
              certificate;

(g) to prescribe the fees payable in respect of —

          (i) an application for certification as an Advanced
              Practice Nurse; and

          (ii) a restoration of such certification; and

(h) to regulate the practice and conduct of Advanced Practice
     Nurses, including the use of titles and qualifications.

Publication of list of Advanced Practice Nurses

 33. The Registrar must prepare and publish in the Gazette a list of
the names, addresses and qualifications of all Advanced Practice
Nurses.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
29  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

Certificate of Registrar

 34. A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the Registrar to
the effect that, at any time or during any period specified in the
certificate, any person was or was not an Advanced Practice Nurse, or
had or did not have in force an Advanced Practice Nurse certificate,
or as to any entry in the Advanced Practice Nurse Register, or the
removal from the Advanced Practice Nurse Register of any entry is,
in the absence of proof to the contrary, and without further proof of
the signature appended to the certificate, sufficient evidence of the
matters specified in the certificate.

False assumption of title of Advanced Practice Nurse, etc.

 35. Any person who —

       (a) not being an Advanced Practice Nurse, takes or uses —

               (i) the name or title of Advanced Practice Nurse in any
                   language, either alone or in combination with any
                   other words or letters; or

              (ii) any name, title, addition, description, uniform or
                   badge, implying that the person is an Advanced
                   Practice Nurse or is qualified to practise a specialised
                   branch of nursing; or

       (b) knowing that some other person is not an Advanced
            Practice Nurse and with intent to deceive, makes any
            statement or does any act calculated to suggest that that
            other person is an Advanced Practice Nurse or is qualified
            to practise a specialised branch of nursing,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.    Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                            30

            PART 6

            MISCELLANEOUS

Inspectors

 36.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more public officers as
inspectors to investigate the commission of an offence under this Act
or any regulations made under this Act.

 (2) In any case relating to the commission of an offence under this
Act or any regulations made under this Act, an inspector has the
power to do all or any of the following:

(a) to require any person whom the inspector has reason to
     believe has any article, document or information relevant
     to the carrying out of the provisions of this Act or the
     regulations made under this Act, to produce any such
     article or document, or give such information, and to retain
     such article or document, or make copies of such article or
     document;

(b) to examine orally any person supposed to be acquainted
     with the facts and circumstances relevant to the carrying
     out of the provisions of this Act or the regulations made
     under this Act, and to reduce into writing the answer given
     or statement made by that person who is bound to state
     truly the facts and circumstances with which that person is
     acquainted, and the statement made by that person must be
     read over to that person and must, after correction, be
     signed by that person;

          (c) to require by written order the attendance before the
              inspector of any person who, from information given or
              otherwise, appears to be acquainted with the facts and
              circumstances relevant to the carrying out of the provisions
              of this Act or the regulations made under this Act.

 (3) An inspector may apply to a Magistrate for a search warrant if
the inspector has reasonable cause to believe that evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act can be found in any premises; and the Magistrate may,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
31  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

if satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for doing so, issue the
warrant.

 (4) A search warrant issued under subsection (3) authorises the
inspector to whom it is directed to enter and search the premises
referred to in the warrant and to seize any thing found on the premises
which the inspector reasonably believes is evidence of the
commission of an offence under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act.

(5) Any person who —

    (a) intentionally offers any resistance to or wilfully delays an
         inspector in the exercise of any power under subsection (2)
         or pursuant to a search warrant issued under subsection (3);
         or

    (b) fails to comply with any requisition or order of an inspector
         under subsection (2),

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
6 months or to both.

Complaints Committees

 37.—(1) The Board may appoint one or more committees, to be
called Complaints Committees, to investigate any complaint or
information in respect of any of the following matters:

       (a) the conviction of a registered nurse, enrolled nurse,
            registered midwife or Advanced Practice Nurse of an
            offence which renders him or her unfit to remain on the
            Register or Roll or to practise as an Advanced Practice
            Nurse;

       (b) any misconduct, or negligence, of a registered nurse,
            enrolled nurse, registered midwife or Advanced Practice
            Nurse which renders him or her unfit to remain on the
            Register or Roll or to practise as an Advanced Practice
            Nurse;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              32

          (c) the physical or mental fitness of a registered nurse,
              enrolled nurse, registered midwife or Advanced Practice
              Nurse to perform his or her functions.

 (2) A Complaints Committee must comprise such number of
members as the Board may determine, and the members may include
members of the Board.

 (3) The Board must appoint a member of a Complaints Committee
as the Chairperson of the Complaints Committee.

 (4) The Board may at any time revoke the appointment of any
Complaints Committee or remove any member of a Complaints
Committee or fill any vacancy in the Complaints Committee.

 (5) Subject to any regulations made under section 44, a Complaints
Committee has the power to regulate its own procedure.

 (6) A Complaints Committee must, within 3 months from the date a
complaint or matter is referred to it or such further period as the Board
may grant, complete its investigation on the complaint or matter and
report its findings and recommendation to the Board.

 (7) A member of the Board who is a member of a Complaints
Committee investigating any complaint or matter against a registered
nurse, enrolled nurse, registered midwife or Advanced Practice Nurse
must not take part in any deliberations of the Board under section 19.

Powers of Complaints Committees to require attendance of
witnesses, etc.

 38.—(1) For the purposes of its investigation, a Complaints
Committee may —

       (a) require any person to produce any book, document, paper
            or other record which may be related to the subject matter
            of the investigation; and

       (b) require any person to attend at a specified time and place
            and give evidence or produce any such book, document,
            paper or record.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
33  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

(2) Any person who without lawful excuse —

    (a) refuses or fails to comply with any requirement of the
         Complaints Committee under subsection (1); or

    (b) refuses to answer or gives a false answer to any question
         put to the person by a member of the Complaints
         Committee,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

Legal assessor and medical assessor

 39.—(1) For the purposes of advising the Board and the Complaints
Committees in any proceedings before any of them, the Board may
appoint a legal assessor who must be an advocate and solicitor of not
less than 10 years’ standing.

 (2) The legal assessor must not participate or sit in any deliberations
of the Board or a Complaints Committee unless invited to do so, and
the legal assessor’s participation must be limited only to questions of
law arising from the proceedings.

 (3) The Board may appoint a medical assessor to assist the Board
and the Complaints Committees in proceedings before any of them.

 (4) The Board may pay to the legal assessor and medical assessor,
as part of the expenses of the Board, such remuneration as the Board
may determine.

Service of documents

 40.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by or under this
Act to be served on a person may be served as described in this
section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents
            generally, or specifically for the document, or (if no

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              34

          address is so specified) the individual’s residential address
          or business address;

          (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
              adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
              business address with an adult apparently employed there;

(d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
     at the individual’s residential address or business address;
     or

          (e) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
              address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a partnership (other than a limited liability partnership)
may be served —

(a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer, or an
     authorised representative, of the partnership;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the partnership’s business address; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
              address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by or under this Act to be
served on a body corporate (including a limited liability partnership)
or an unincorporated association may be served —

(a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
     body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
     limited liability partnership’s manager;

(b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
     to, the registered office or principal office in Singapore of
     the body corporate or unincorporated association; or

          (c) by sending it by email to the last email address of the body
              corporate or unincorporated association.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
35  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

    (a) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
         after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
         undelivered); or

    (b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
         becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
         it is sent.

 (6) However, service of any document under this Act on a person by
email may be effected only with the person’s prior written consent to
service in that way.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

    “authorised representative”, in relation to a partnership (other
       than a limited liability partnership), means any person
       authorised to accept service of documents on behalf of the
       partnership;

    “business address” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
         last known place of business in Singapore; or

    (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
         liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
         last known place of business in Singapore;

    “document” includes an order or a notice permitted or required
       by or under this Act to be served;

    “last email address” means the last email address given by the
       addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
       document as the email address for the service of documents
       under this Act;

    “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
       place of residence in Singapore.

                                [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              36

Where Board member is in public service

 41. A member of the Board is not disqualified from being a member
of a Complaints Committee, or from taking part in the deliberations
of the Board for the purposes of taking action under section 19, by
reason only that the member, or the person who made the complaint
or gave the information leading to the proceeding in question, is in the
public service.

Funds of Board

 42.—(1) All fees and other moneys payable under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act must be paid to the Board and any fee
or other moneys not paid may be recovered by the Board as a debt due
to the Board.

 (2) Subject to subsection (2A) and section 43A(4), all moneys
received by the Board or the Registrar must be paid into the funds of
the Board.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (2A) All penalties collected or recovered under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act must be paid into the Consolidated
Fund.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

 (3) The costs and expenses of and incidental to the performance of
the functions of the Board, a Complaints Committee and any
committee appointed under section 10 must be paid by the Board out
of its funds.

 (4) The Minister may pay into the funds of the Board such sum of
money out of moneys provided by Parliament as the Minister may
determine.

 (5) The Board may invest its funds in accordance with the standard
investment power of statutory bodies as defined in section 33A of the
Interpretation Act 1965.

No action against Board in absence of bad faith

 43. No action or proceeding shall lie against the Board, any
committee appointed by the Board, a Complaints Committee, or any
member or employee of the Board, committee or Complaints

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
37  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

Committee for any act or thing done under this Act unless it is proved
that the act or thing was done in bad faith or with malice.

Composition of offences

 43A.—(1) The Board may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $1,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences that may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

                                                                               [Act 19 of 2025 wef 05/12/2025]

Power of Board to make regulations

 44.—(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Minister, make
such regulations as may be necessary or expedient to give effect to the
provisions and purposes of this Act and for the due administration of
this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), such regulations may —

       (a) provide for the duties of the Registrar;

       (b) provide for the forms of the Register and Roll and the mode
            in which they must be kept;

       (c) regulate the alteration or correction of the Register and
            Roll;

       (d) regulate the renewal of temporary registration or enrolment
            under section 16(3);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              38

          (e) regulate the grant and renewal of practising certificates,
              including prescribing conditions for such grant and
              renewal;

          (f) regulate the procedure by which the Board takes action
              under section 19;

(g) regulate the procedure of any committee appointed by the
     Board or of a Complaints Committee;

(h) regulate the cancellation of registrations and enrolments,
     and the restoration of registrations and enrolments which
     are cancelled;

          (i) provide for matters relating to the accreditation of courses
              in nursing and in midwifery and of institutions providing
              such courses;

          (j) regulate the practice and conduct of registered nurses,
              enrolled nurses and registered midwives, including the use
              of titles and qualifications;

          (k) prescribe the forms and fees for the purposes of this Act;

          (l) provide that any person who contravenes any regulation
              shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
              conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000; and

(m) prescribe such other matters as are necessary or authorised
     to be prescribed under this Act.

                                    PART 7
                     TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Interpretation of this Part
 45. In this Part —
      “previous Board” means the Singapore Nursing Board
         established under section 3 of the repealed Act;
      “previous Regulations” means the Nurses and Midwives
         Regulations (Rg 1, Cap. 209, 1985 Revised Edition);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
39  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

    “register of midwives” means the register of midwives
       maintained pursuant to the repealed Act;

    “register of nurses” means the register of nurses maintained
       pursuant to the repealed Act;

    “repealed Act” means the Nurses and Midwives Act (Cap. 209,
       1985 Revised Edition);

    “roll of nurses” means the roll of nurses maintained pursuant to
       the repealed Act.

Persons registered and enrolled under repealed Act

 46.—(1) Every person who is a registered nurse under the repealed
Act immediately before 1 May 2000 —

       (a) if the person was admitted to the register of nurses by
            virtue of regulation 10 of the previous Regulations, is
            deemed to be registered under section 16 as a registered
            nurse for such period as may be determined by the Board;
            or

       (b) in any other case, is deemed to be registered under
            section 14 as a registered nurse.

 (2) Every person who is an enrolled nurse under the repealed Act
immediately before 1 May 2000 —

       (a) if the person was admitted to the roll of nurses by virtue of
            regulation 10 of the previous Regulations, is deemed to be
            enrolled under section 16 as an enrolled nurse for such
            period as may be determined by the Board; or

       (b) in any other case, is deemed to be enrolled under section 14
            as an enrolled nurse.

 (3) Every person who is a registered midwife under the repealed
Act immediately before 1 May 2000 —

       (a) if the person was admitted to the register of midwives by
            virtue of regulation 10 of the previous Regulations, is
            deemed to be registered as a registered midwife under
            section 16 for such period as may be determined by the
            Board; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
2020 Ed.  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              40

(b) in any other case, is deemed to be registered under
     section 14 as a registered midwife.

 (4) Where the registration or enrolment of a person under the
repealed Act is subject to any condition, the deemed registration or
enrolment of that person under subsection (1), (2) or (3) (as the case
may be) is, unless the Board otherwise decides, subject to the same
condition.

(5) The Registrar must —

(a) transfer to such part of the Register of Nurses as the Board
     considers appropriate the name, address, qualifications and
     other particulars of a person mentioned in subsection (1)
     which appear in the register of nurses;

(b) transfer to such part of the Roll as the Board considers
     appropriate the name, address, qualifications and other
     particulars of a person mentioned in subsection (2) which
     appear in the roll of nurses; and

          (c) transfer to the Register of Midwives the name, address,
              qualifications and other particulars of a person mentioned
              in subsection (3) which appear in the register of midwives.

 (6) The Registrar may, in carrying out the transfer under
subsection (5), omit the particulars of any person known to the
Registrar to be deceased.

 (7) Section 23 applies, with the necessary modifications, to any
person whose name was removed from the register of nurses, the roll
of nurses or the register of midwives.

Saving of certificates

 47. Any certificate granted under regulation 11 of the previous
Regulations to a person upon the person’s registration or enrolment
under the repealed Act is deemed to be a certificate of registration or
certificate of enrolment, as the case may be.

Pending disciplinary proceedings

 48.—(1) This Act and the regulations made under this Act do not
apply to any proceedings of a disciplinary nature commenced before

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
41  Nurses and Midwives Act 1999                              2020 Ed.

1 May 2000, and the repealed Act and the previous Regulations
continue to apply to those proceedings.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the previous Board continues
to exist to complete its hearing of those proceedings and make such
order or decision as it could have made under the repealed Act and the
previous Regulations.

 (3) Any order or decision made by the previous Board under
subsection (2) is to be treated as an order or decision of the Board and
has the same force and effect as if it had been made by the Board
under section 19.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                NURSES AND MIDWIVES ACT 1999

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
                           MIDWIVES ACT
           (CHAPTER 219, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance IX of 1915 — The Midwives Ordinance 1915

Bill                  : G.N. No. 329/1915

First Reading         : 14 May 1915

Second Reading        : 28 May 1915

Third Reading         : 25 June 1915

Commencement          : 1 July 1917

Note: This Ordinance was amended by The Midwives (Amendment)
        Ordinance 1916 (Ordinance 20 of 1916) before it came into force.

2. 1920 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 150 (Midwives)

Operation             : 28 November 1921

3. Ordinance 11 of 1923 — Midwives Ordinance, 1923

Bill                  : G.N. No. 514/1923

First Reading         : 23 April 1923

Second Reading        : 28 May 1923

Notice of Amendments  : 28 May 1923

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                         ii

Third Reading            : 25 June 1923

Commencement             : 1 October 1923

4. 1926 Revised Edition — Ordinance No. 150 (Midwives)

Operation                : 1 August 1926

5. 1936 Revised Edition — Midwives Ordinance (Chapter 67)

Operation                : 1 September 1936

6. Ordinance 27 of 1954 — Midwives (Amendment) Ordinance, 1954

Bill                     : G.N. No. S 201/1954

First Reading            : 15 June 1954

Second Reading           : 20 July 1954

Select Committee Report  : Council Paper No. 64 of 1954

Third Reading            : 2 November 1954

Commencement             : 1 January 1955

7. Ordinance 37 of 1952 — Law Revision (Penalties Amendment)
                                    Ordinance, 1952

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with item 20 of the Schedule to the
   above Ordinance)

Bill                     : 32/1952

First Reading            : 16 September 1952

Second and Third Readings : 14 October 1952

Commencement             : 30 April 1955 (section 2 read with
                               item 20 of the Schedule)

8. 1955 Revised Edition — Midwives Ordinance (Chapter 192)

Operation                : 1 July 1956

9. Ordinance 25 of 1959 — Midwives (Amendment) Ordinance, 1959

Bill                     : 205/1959

First Reading            : 11 February 1959

Second and Third Readings : 3 March 1959

Commencement             : 20 March 1959

10. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 179/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                            Laws) (No. 5) Order, 1959

Operation                : 20 November 1959

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      iii

11. 1970 Revised Edition — Midwives Act (Chapter 219)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

                                  PART 2
                  NURSES REGISTRATION ACT
           (CHAPTER 221, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

12. Ordinance 3 of 1949 — Nurses Registration Ordinance, 1949

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 432/1948

First Reading         : 21 December 1948

Second Reading        : 15 February 1949

Notice of Amendments  : 15 February 1949

Third Reading         : 15 February 1949

Commencement          : 15 November 1950

13. Ordinance 18 of 1955 — Nurses Registration (Amendment) Ordinance,
                                      1955

Bill                  : 17/1955

First Reading         : 18 August 1955

Second and Third Readings : 24 August 1955

Commencement          : 9 September 1955

14. 1955 Revised Edition — Nurses Registration Ordinance (Chapter 194)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

15. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                      Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

     (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
     Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               iv

16. 1970 Revised Edition — Nurses Registration Act (Chapter 221)

Operation      : 31 July 1971

                                  PART 3
                 NURSES AND MIDWIVES ACT
           (CHAPTER 209, 1985 REVISED EDITION)

17. Act 16 of 1975 — Nurses and Midwives Act, 1975

Bill           : 14/1975

First Reading  : 3 March 1975

Second and Third Readings : 27 March 1975

Commencement   : 1 October 1975

18. 1985 Revised Edition — Nurses and Midwives Act (Chapter 209)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

                                  PART 4
               NURSES AND MIDWIVES ACT 1999

                      (2020 REVISED EDITION)

19. Act 46 of 1999 — Nurses and Midwives Act 1999

Bill           : 38/1999

First Reading  : 11 October 1999

Second and Third Readings : 24 November 1999

Commencement   : 1 May 2000

20. 2000 Revised Edition — Nurses and Midwives Act (Chapter 209)

Operation      : 30 December 2000

21. Act 15 of 2005 — Nurses and Midwives (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill           : 6/2005

First Reading  : 10 March 2005

Second and Third Readings : 21 April 2005

Commencement   : 1 April 2006

22. 2012 Revised Edition — Nurses and Midwives Act (Chapter 209)

Operation      : 31 July 2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                      v

23. Act 5 of 2018 — Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 87 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2017

First Reading         : 6 November 2017

Second Reading        : 8 January 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 8 January 2018

Third Reading         : 8 January 2018

Commencement          : 1 April 2018 (section 87)

24. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 106 of the Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 106 of the Schedule)

25. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 15(11) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 45/2020

First Reading         : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement          : 1 March 2021 (section 15(11))

26. 2020 Revised Edition — Nurses and Midwives Act 1999

Operation             : 31 December 2021

27. Act 11 of 2023 — Healthcare Services (Amendment) Act 2023
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2023

First Reading         : 6 February 2023

Second and Third Readings : 6 March 2023

Commencement          : 1 May 2023

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
               vi

28. Act 19 of 2025 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2025

Bill           : 9/2025

First Reading  : 22 September 2025

Second and Third Readings : 15 October 2025

Commencement   : 5 December 2025

               Abbreviations

.              (updated on 29 August 2022)
               Gazette Notification
G.N.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
G.N. Sp.       Legislative Assembly
L.A.           Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
L.N.           Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
M.             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
               Malaysia)
Parl.          Parliament
S              Subsidiary Legislation
S.I.           Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
S.S.G.G.       Straits Settlements Government Gazette
S.S.G.G. (E)   Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
                 COMPARATIVE TABLE
         NURSES AND MIDWIVES ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2012 Ed.
                   10—(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—
10—(5)                (6)
—                  13—(4) [Deleted by Act 15 of 2005]
13—(4)
                      (5)
   (5)                (6)
18—(6)             18—(5A)
                      (6)
   (7)                (6A)
   (8)                (7)
   (9)             19—(2A)
19—(3)                (2B)
   (4)                (2C)
   (5)                (3)
   (6)                (3A)
   (7)                (3B)
   (8)                (4)
   (9)                (5)
   (10)               (6)
   (11)               (7)
   (12)               (8)
   (13)            42—(5) [Deleted by Act 5 of 2018]
—                     (6)
42—(5)             49 [Repealed by Act 4 of 2021]
—

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 5/12/2025
