THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                    ASSOCIATION ACT 2002

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
                                                                    2020 Ed.

         International Development
            Association Act 2002

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  Acceptance of Agreement
     4.  Financial provision for membership subscriptions
     5.  Issue of non-negotiable notes and creation of other obligations
     6.  Power to raise loans
     7.  Receipts from Association
     8.  Certain provisions of Agreement to have force of law
     9.  Companies Act 1967 disapplied
   10.   Power to make regulations
         The Schedule — Provisions having force of law

An Act to enable Singapore to become a member of the International
  Development Association by acceptance of the Articles of
  Agreement of the establishment and operation of the
  International Development Association.

                                                               [1 August 2002]

Short title

 1. This Act is the International Development Association Act 2002.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Agreement” means the Articles of Agreement opened for
         signature at Washington on 24 September 1960 providing for
         the establishment and operation of the international body
         known as the International Development Association;

                                                    1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
          International Development

2020 Ed.  Association Act 2002                                       2

“Association” means the International Development
   Association established by the Agreement;

“membership resolution” means the resolution adopted by the
   Board of Governors of the Association specifying the terms
   and conditions upon which Singapore is admitted to
   membership of the Association.

Acceptance of Agreement

 3. The President may by instrument under his or her hand empower
a person named in the instrument, on behalf of the Government —

       (a) to sign the Agreement and such other instruments required
            for admission to membership of the Association; and

       (b) to deposit with the International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development an instrument of acceptance stating that
            the Government has —

               (i) accepted without reservation in accordance with the
                   laws of Singapore the Agreement and the terms and
                   conditions of the membership resolution; and

              (ii) taken all steps necessary to enable the Government to
                   carry out all its obligations under the Agreement and
                   the membership resolution.

Financial provision for membership subscriptions

 4.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), all sums necessary for the
purpose of making all payments of subscriptions on behalf of the
Government required to be made to the Association under the
Agreement and the membership resolution are charged on and must
be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [10/2004]

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2022 wef 23/12/2022]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the total subscription to the
Association must not exceed the sum of one million United States
dollars unless increased with the approval of Parliament signified by
resolution.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2022 wef 23/12/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
   International Development

3  Association Act 2002                                       2020 Ed.

 (3) Any additional subscription made on any occasion on behalf of
the Government to the Association by reason of Singapore’s
membership of the Association under the Agreement and the
membership resolution must be authorised by, and must not exceed
the maximum amount specified in, a resolution of Parliament for that
occasion.

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2022 wef 23/12/2022]

                                                                               [Act 34 of 2022 wef 23/12/2022]

Issue of non-negotiable notes and creation of other obligations

 5.—(1) To the extent to which the Association is prepared to accept
from the Government notes or other obligations that are non-interest
bearing and non-negotiable and that are payable at their par value on
demand in place of any payment that the Government has made,
intends to make or is required to make to the Association under
section 4, the Minister may, with the concurrence of the President
under Article 144(1) of the Constitution, create and issue to the
Association, in such form as the Minister thinks fit and as is
acceptable to the Association, any such notes or other obligations.

 (2) Any sums necessary to redeem any notes or obligations issued
under subsection (1) is a charge on the Consolidated Fund.

Power to raise loans

 6.—(1) For the purpose of providing any sums required for making
payments to the Association under section 4, the Minister may, with
the concurrence of the President under Article 144(1)(b) of the
Constitution, raise loans, on behalf of the Government, by the
creation and issue of securities bearing such rates of interest and
subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise
as the Minister thinks fit.

 (2) The principal and interest of the securities issued under
subsection (1) and any expenses incurred in connection with their
creation and issue are charged on and must be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
          International Development

2020 Ed.  Association Act 2002                                       4

Receipts from Association

 7. All sums received by or on behalf of the Government from the
Association on account of its subscriptions therein or of
supplementary resources provided by it under the Agreement must
be paid into the Consolidated Fund.

Certain provisions of Agreement to have force of law

 8.—(1) Despite anything to the contrary in any other written law,
the provisions of the Agreement set out in the Schedule have the force
of law.

 (2) Nothing in section 9 of Article VIII of the Agreement is to be
construed as —

       (a) entitling the Association to import into Singapore goods
            free of any duty of customs without any restriction on their
            subsequent sale in Singapore; or

       (b) conferring on the Association any exemption from taxes or
            duties which are no more than charges for services
            rendered.

 (3) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, amend
the Schedule in conformity with any amendments to the provisions
of the Agreement set out in the Schedule which may subsequently be
duly made and adopted.

Companies Act 1967 disapplied

 9. The Association is not to be regarded as a corporation within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967, and the provisions of that Act
do not apply to the Association or to the issue by the Association of
any shares, debentures, bonds, notes or other securities.

Power to make regulations

 10.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out or
giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

 (2) All such regulations must be presented to Parliament as soon as
possible after publication in the Gazette.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
   International Development

5  Association Act 2002                                       2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE

                                                              Section 8

   PROVISIONS HAVING FORCE OF LAW
                    ARTICLE VIII

        Status, Immunities And Privileges

SECTION 1 Purposes of Article

 To enable the Association to fulfill the functions with which it is entrusted, the
status, immunities and privileges provided in this Article shall be accorded to the
Association in the territories of each member.

SECTION 2 Status of the Association
 The Association shall possess full juridical personality and, in particular, the
capacity —

         (i) to contract;
        (ii) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property;
       (iii) to institute legal proceedings.

SECTION 3 Position of the Association with Regard to Judicial Process

 Actions may be brought against the Association only in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the territories of a member in which the Association has an office,
has appointed an agent for the purpose of accepting service or notice of process, or
has issued or guaranteed securities. No actions shall, however, be brought by
members or persons acting for or deriving claims from members. The property and
assets of the Association shall, wheresoever located and by whomsoever held, be
immune from all forms of seizure, attachment or execution before the delivery of
final judgment against the Association.

SECTION 4 Immunity of Assets from Seizure

 Property and assets of the Association, wherever located and by whomsoever
held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation or any
other form of seizure by executive or legislative action.

SECTION 5 Immunity of Archives
 The archives of the Association shall be inviolable.

SECTION 6 Freedom of Assets from Restrictions

 To the extent necessary to carry out the operations provided for in this Agreement
and subject to the provisions of this Agreement, all property and assets of the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
          International Development

2020 Ed.  Association Act 2002                                       6

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

Association shall be free from restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature.

SECTION 7 Privilege for Communications

 The official communications of the Association shall be accorded by each
member the same treatment that it accords to the official communications of other
members.

SECTION 8 Immunities and Privileges of Officers and Employees

 All Governors, Executive Directors, Alternates, officers and employees of the
Association —

         (i) shall be immune from legal process with respect to acts performed by
             them in their official capacity except when the Association waives this
             immunity;

        (ii) not being local nationals, shall be accorded the same immunities from
             immigration restrictions, alien registration requirements and national
             service obligations and the same facilities as regards exchange
             restrictions as are accorded by members to the representatives,
             officials and employees of comparable rank of other members;

       (iii) shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travelling facilities as
             is accorded by members to representatives, officials and employees of
             comparable rank of other members.

SECTION 9 Immunities from Taxation

        (a) The Association, its assets, property, income and its operations and
             transactions authorised by this Agreement, shall be immune from all
             taxation and from all customs duties. The Association shall also be
             immune from liability for the collection or payment of any tax or duty.

        (b) No tax shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and emoluments paid
             by the Association to Executive Directors, Alternates, officials or
             employees of the Association who are not local citizens, local subjects,
             or other local nationals.

        (c) No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security
             issued by the Association (including any dividend or interest thereon)
             by whomsoever held —

                  (i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely
                      because it is issued by the Association; or

                 (ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the place or
                      currency in which it is issued, made payable or paid, or the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
   International Development

7  Association Act 2002                                       2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE — continued

   location of any office or place of business maintained by the
   Association.

   (d) No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security
        guaranteed by the Association (including any dividend or interest
        thereon) by whomsoever held —

   (i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely
       because it is guaranteed by the Association; or

   (ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the location
        of any office or place of business maintained by the
        Association.

SECTION 10 Application of Article

 Each member shall take such action as is necessary in its own territories for the
purpose of making effective in terms of its own law the principles set forth in this
Article and shall inform the Association of the detailed action which it has taken.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                 ASSOCIATION ACT 2002

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 11 of 2002 — International Development Association Act 2002

Bill           : 4/2002

First Reading  : 5 April 2002

Second and Third Readings : 8 July 2002

Commencement   : 1 August 2002

2. 2003 Revised Edition — International Development Association Act
                                    (Chapter 144A)

Operation      : 31 July 2003

3. Act 10 of 2004 — International Development Association (Amendment)
                           Act 2004

Bill           : 11/2004

First Reading  : 17 March 2004

Second and Third Readings : 19 April 2004

Commencement   : 15 May 2004

4. 2020 Revised Edition — International Development
                                    Association Act 2002

Operation      : 31 December 2021

5. Act 34 of 2022 — International Development Association (Amendment)
                           Act 2022

   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 26/2022

First Reading  : 3 October 2022

Second and Third Readings : 20 October 2022

Commencement   : 23 December 2022

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
.                                 ii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 23/12/2022
