THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT 1999

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                                                                2020 Ed.

Telecommunications Act 1999

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

         EXCLUSIVE PRIVILEGE AND LICENSING, ETC., OF
                     TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS

 3. Exclusive privilege with respect to telecommunications
 4. Exceptions to section 3
 5. Power to license telecommunication systems and services
 6. Power to grant spectrum right
 7. Power to license satellite orbital slots
 8. Designation of public telecommunication licensees
 9. Modification of licence conditions
10. Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.
11. Approval of equipment
12. Residual power of Authority to provide telecommunication

         services
13. Charges and other terms for services provided by Authority
14. Sharing of radio frequency spectrum

                                        PART 3

                ERECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
              OF TELECOMMUNICATION INSTALLATIONS

15. Power to enter on and examine land other than State land
16. Power to enter on State land for purposes of installation or plant
17. Power to enter on other land or building for purposes of

         installation or plant
18. Transfer of installation or plant
19. Saving of wayleave agreements

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                                         2

Section   Inspection, maintenance and repair of installation or plant for
   20.    telecommunications
          Alteration or relocation of public telecommunication licensee’s
   21.    installation or plant
          Removal of trees dangerous to or obstructing any installation or
   22.    plant for telecommunications
          Provision of space or facility under code of practice
   23.    Provision of facilities for radio-communication
   24.    Provision of space or facility or installation, plant or system by
   25.    direction of Authority
          Prohibition against exclusive agreements or arrangements
   26.    Disputes as to compensation
   27.    Precautions in execution of work
   28.    Exemption from distress and attachment, etc.
   29.

                                        PART 4

                  CODES OF PRACTICE, STANDARDS OF
            PERFORMANCE, DIRECTIONS AND ADVISORY

               GUIDELINES ON TELECOMMUNICATIONS

30. Codes of practice and standards of performance on
         telecommunications

31. Directions affecting telecommunication licensees
32. Advisory guidelines

                                        PART 5

         TELECOMMUNICATION CABLE DETECTION WORK

33. Telecommunication cable detection work to be carried out
         before earthworks

34. Powers of Authority in relation to telecommunication cable
         detection work

35. Licensed telecommunication cable detection workers
36. Duty to enquire before excavation

                                       PART 5A

        CONTROL OF DESIGNATED TELECOMMUNICATION
         LICENSEES, DESIGNATED BUSINESS TRUSTS AND

                              DESIGNATED TRUSTS

37. Interpretation of this Part

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
3        Telecommunications Act 1999                                   2020 Ed.

Section  Control of equity interests and voting power in designated
   38.   telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
   39.   designated trust
   40.   Power to issue code of practice relating to control of designated
   41.   telecommunication licensees, designated business trusts and
   42.   designated trusts
   43.   Power to issue directions relating to control of designated
         telecommunication licensees, designated business trusts and
         designated trusts
         Power to issue directions to enforce conditions imposed by
         Authority when approving application under section 38(5), (6)
         or (7)
         Power of Authority to obtain information relating to control of
         designated telecommunication licensees, designated business
         trusts and designated trusts
         Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of
         designated telecommunication licensee

                                          PART 5B

                       SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDER

   44. Interpretation of this Part
   45. Declaration of specified telecommunication licensee
   46. Meaning and effect of special administration order
   47. Power to make special administration order, etc.
   48. Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order
   49. Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

                                          PART 5C

               ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION SCHEME

   50. Interpretation of this Part
   51. Power of Authority in relation to dispute resolution scheme
   52. Operator of dispute resolution scheme

                                           PART 6

                            OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

   53. Unlawful operation of telecommunication system or service
   54. Prohibitions in respect of telecommunication and

            radio‑communication equipment

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                                       4

Section   Penalty for unlicensed station
   55.    Exemption from sections 53, 54 and 55
   56.    Powers of search and seizure
   57.    Sealing of telecommunication system or equipment, etc.
   58.    Using unlawful telecommunication system or service
   59.    Obstruction of public telecommunication licensees
   60.    Intentional damage to installation or plant used for
   61.    telecommunications
          Offences by officer, employee or agent of public
   62.    telecommunication licensees
          Fraudulent use of telecommunication service
   63.    Possession or supply of any thing for fraudulent purpose in
   64.    connection with use of telecommunication service
          Fraudulent retention of messages
   65.    Protection of installation or plant used for telecommunications
   66.    Prohibition of false notice relating to public telecommunication
   67.    licensees’ installation or plant
          Damage to telecommunication system licensees’ installation or
   68.    plant
          Compensation for damage caused to public telecommunication
   69.    licensees’ installation or plant
          Penalty for removing any mark denoting used device for
   70.    telephony purposes
          Failure to disconnect equipment not approved under section 11
   71.

                                        PART 7

                   INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS AND
                             NATIONAL INTERESTS

72. Right to conduct international business dealings
73. Government’s overriding international rights
74. Liability for international financial obligations
75. Contribution by Government
76. Provision to Government of telecommunication services, etc.
77. Directions by Minister

                                        PART 8
             ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND PROCEDURES

78. Power to require information, etc.
79. Power to examine, etc.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
5        Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

Section  Powers of arrest and search in respect of seizable offences
   80.   Powers of search and arrest in respect of offences under
   81.   section 53 or 64
         Obstruction of police officer or Chief Executive or employee of
   82.   Authority
         No costs or damages or other relief arising from seizure to be
   83.   recoverable unless seizure without reasonable or probable cause
         Composition of offences
   84.   General penalties
   85.   Saving of prosecutions under other written laws
   86.   Jurisdiction of Courts
   87.   Offences by bodies of persons
   88.

                                           PART 9

                                GENERAL PROVISIONS

   89. Reconsideration by Authority and appeal to Minister
   90. Interest on sums unpaid
   91. Power of Minister to issue written order relating to acquisition of

            assets, etc., of telecommunication licensee, designated business
            trust or designated trust
   92. Power of Minister to issue separation order
   93. Exclusion of liability of public telecommunication licensees
   94. Service of documents, etc.
   95. Excluded matters
   96. Exemption by Minister
   97. Regulations
   98. Saving and transitional provisions

An Act to provide for the operation and provision of
  telecommunication systems and services in Singapore, and for
  matters connected therewith.

                                                           [1 December 1999]

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.     Telecommunications Act 1999                            6

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

1. This Act is the Telecommunications Act 1999.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Authority” means the Info‑communications Media
         Development Authority established by section 3 of the
         Info‑communications Media Development Authority
         Act 2016;

      “broadcasting apparatus” and “broadcasting service” have the
         meanings given by the Broadcasting Act 1994;

      “Chief Executive”, in relation to the Authority, means the Chief
         Executive of the Authority appointed under section 40(2) of
         the Info‑communications Media Development Authority
         Act 2016, and includes any individual acting in that capacity;

      “code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
         under section 23 or 30;

      “common property” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
         Building (Strata Management) Act 2004;

                                                                               [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

      “earthworks” includes —

              (a) any act of excavating earth, rock or other material (by
                   whatever means) in connection with —

                     (i) any works for or relating to the construction,
                          reconstruction, extension, renovation,
                          alteration, demolition or repair of any
                          building, road, railway, bridge, viaduct,
                          flyover, sewer or sewage works;

                     (ii) any works for or relating to the laying,
                          inspecting, repairing or renewing of any

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
7             Telecommunications Act 1999                    2020 Ed.

              mains, pipes, cables, fittings or other
              apparatuses;

   (iii) any soil investigation works; or

   (iv) such other works as are usually undertaken by a
        person carrying on business as a contractor in
        the construction industry or as a professional
        civil or structural engineer;

   (b) any act of boring, dredging, jacking, levelling, piling
        or tunnelling on or under any premises or street by
        any mechanical means; and

   (c) the driving or sinking of any earth rod, casing or tube
       into the ground;

   “equipment” includes any appliance, apparatus or accessory
      used or intended to be used for telecommunications,
      including (to avoid doubt) any such appliance, apparatus or
      accessory capable of being used for the operation of any
      broadcasting service;

   “Hertzian or radio waves” means electromagnetic waves of
      frequencies not exceeding 1,000 terahertz propagated in
      space without any artificial guide;

   “Housing and Development Board” means the Housing and
      Development Board established by section 3 of the Housing
      and Development Act 1959;

   “installation or plant used for telecommunications” includes all
      buildings, lands, structures, machinery, equipment, cables,
      poles and lines used or intended for use in connection with
      telecommunications;

   “message” means any sign, signal, writing, image, sound,
      intelligence or information of any nature transmitted by
      telecommunications;

   “owner” —

   (a) in relation to any premises comprised in a strata title
        plan under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967,
        means —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               8

          (i) in the case of a lot, the person who is registered
              as the subsidiary proprietor of the lot under that
              Act;

          (ii) in the case of a common property, the
               management corporation having control of
               that common property, or the person
               receiving any rent or charge for the
               maintenance and management of that
               common property; and

                (iii) in the case of a limited common property as
                      defined in section 2(1) of the Building (Strata
                      Management) Act 2004, the subsidiary
                      management corporation established by the
                      Building (Strata Management) Act 2004
                      having control of that limited common
                      property, or the person receiving any rent or
                      charge for the maintenance and management of
                      that limited common property;

                                                                     [Act 12 of 2020 wef 01/10/2025]

          (b) in relation to a building in a housing estate of the
               Housing and Development Board (called a HDB
               housing estate), means —

          (i) in the case of a flat, any owner of the flat as
              defined in section 2(1) of the Housing and
              Development Act 1959;

          (ii) in the case of the building’s common property
               in a HDB housing estate that is controlled,
               managed and maintained by a Town Council,
               that Town Council; and

          (iii) in the case of the building’s common property
                in a HDB housing estate that is not controlled,
                managed and maintained by a Town Council,
                the Housing and Development Board;

          (c) in relation to a subdivided building other than a
              subdivided building mentioned in paragraph (a) or
              (b), means —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
9  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

   (i) in the case of a lot, the person who is registered
       under the Land Titles Act 1993 as the
       proprietor of the fee simple, estate in
       perpetuity or leasehold estate of that lot; and

   (ii) in the case of the subdivided building’s
        common property, every person who is
        registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 as
        the proprietor of the fee simple, estate in
        perpetuity or leasehold estate of a lot in that
        building, or the person receiving any rent or
        charge for the maintenance and management of
        the common property;

   (d) in relation to any premises which are not subdivided,
        means any person who is registered under the Land
        Titles Act 1993 as the proprietor of the fee simple,
        estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of those
        premises; and

   (e) in relation to any other premises or building, means
       the person for the time being receiving the rent of the
       premises or building, whether on the person’s own
       account or as agent, trustee or receiver, or who would
       receive such rent if the premises or building were let
       to a tenant, and includes the person whose name is
       entered in the Valuation List prepared under
       section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960 as the
       owner of the premises or building, or a mortgagee in
       possession;

   “premises” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
      Building Control Act 1989;

   “public telecommunication licensee” means a person designated
      by the Authority under section 8;

   “public telecommunication licensee’s installation or plant”
      means any installation or plant used for
      telecommunications belonging to or used by a public
      telecommunication licensee;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               10

“radio-communication” means any telecommunication by
   means of Hertzian or radio waves;

“radio-communication service” means any service for
   radio‑communications;

“radio-communication system” means any system used or
   intended to be used for radio‑communications;

“repealed Act” means the Telecommunication Authority of
   Singapore Act (Cap. 323, 1993 Revised Edition) repealed by
   the Info‑communications Development Authority of
   Singapore Act (Cap. 137A, 2000 Revised Edition);

“securities”, in relation to a company (including a VCC),
   includes shares, debentures, bonds and other securities of the
   company, whether or not constituting a charge on the assets
   of the company;

                                       [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

“shares” includes stock;

“standard of performance” means a standard of performance
   issued or approved under section 30;

“street” includes any way, road, lane, path, passage or open
   space, whether a thoroughfare or not, over which the public
   have a right of way and also the roadway and footway over
   any public bridge and includes any road, footway or passage,
   used or intended to be used as a means of access to 2 or more
   holdings, whether the public has a right of way thereover or
   not;

“TAS” means the Telecommunication Authority of Singapore
   reconstituted by the repealed Act;

“telecommunication cable” means any cable of a
   telecommunication system belonging to or under the
   management or control of a telecommunication system
   licensee;

“telecommunication cable detection work” means any work of
   detecting or locating any underground telecommunication
   cable;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
11  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    “telecommunication cable detection worker” means any person
       whose trade or occupation requires or includes the personal
       performance by him or her of telecommunication cable
       detection work;

    “telecommunication cable detection work licence” means a
       licence granted under section 34;

    “telecommunication licensee” means a person to whom a
       licence has been granted under section 5 or 7;

    “telecommunication line” means a wire or cable used for
       telecommunications with any casing, coating, tube or pipe
       enclosing the same and any appliance and apparatus
       connected therewith for the purpose of fixing or insulating
       the same;

    “telecommunication service” means any service for
       telecommunications, including the leasing of a
       telecommunication cable, but excludes any broadcasting
       service;

    “telecommunication system” means any system used or
       intended to be used for telecommunications, including (to
       avoid doubt) any such system capable of being used for the
       operation of any broadcasting service;

    “telecommunication system licensee” means a person licensed
       under section 5 to operate a telecommunication system;

    “telecommunications” means a transmission, emission or
       reception of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds or
       intelligence of any nature by wire, radio, optical or other
       electromagnetic systems whether or not such signs, signals,
       writing, images, sounds or intelligence have been subjected
       to re‑arrangement, computation or other processes by any
       means in the course of their transmission, emission or
       reception;

    “Town Council” means a Town Council established by section 4
       of the Town Councils Act 1988;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               12

“VCC” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the VCC Act;

                                                                            [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

“VCC Act” means the Variable Capital Companies Act 2018;

                                                                            [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

“vessel” includes any ship, boat, air‑cushioned vehicle or
   floating rig or platform used in any form of operations at
   sea or any other description of vessel.

          [10/2005; 19/2011; 22/2016; 30/2016; 4/2021]

                                    PART 2

     EXCLUSIVE PRIVILEGE AND LICENSING, ETC., OF
                 TELECOMMUNICATION SYSTEMS

Exclusive privilege with respect to telecommunications

 3.—(1) As from 1 December 1999 and subject to this Act, the
Authority has the exclusive privilege for the operation and provision
of telecommunication systems and services in Singapore.

 (2) The privilege conferred on the Authority by subsection (1) —

       (a) includes the rights of establishing, installing, using,
            working, maintaining, developing, constructing,
            promoting, hiring and selling telecommunication systems
            and services; and

       (b) extends to every vessel or aircraft registered in Singapore
            and every other vessel, aircraft and any vehicle, whether
            mechanically propelled or not, in Singapore.

Exceptions to section 3

 4. The privilege conferred by section 3 is not infringed by —

       (a) the running by a person solely for the person’s own use or
            solely for the purposes of the person’s business (but not for
            providing any telecommunication service to another
            person) of a telecommunication line system in which all
            the equipment comprised therein is situated —

               (i) on a single set of premises in single occupation; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
13  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (ii) in a vessel, aircraft or vehicle or in 2 or more vessels,
         aircraft or vehicles mechanically coupled together;
         or

    (b) the operation of any telecommunication system in the
         course of their duties by the officers and men and women
         of the Singapore Armed Forces, the Singapore Police
         Force, the Singapore Civil Defence Force or of any visiting
         force lawfully present in Singapore.

Power to license telecommunication systems and services

 5.—(1) A licence may, with the consent of, or in accordance with
the terms of a general authority given by the Minister, be granted by
the Authority either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as
the Authority may impose and specify in the licence and either
irrevocably or subject to revocation as therein specified for the
running of such telecommunication systems and services falling
within section 3 as are specified in the licence.

 (2) A licence granted under subsection (1) may be granted either to
any person, class of persons or a particular person, and may include
(without affecting the power to impose conditions conferred by that
subsection) conditions requiring —

       (a) the licensee to enter into agreements or arrangements with
            any person, class of persons or another
            telecommunications licensee for —

               (i) the interconnection of, and access to,
                   telecommunication systems;

              (ii) the sharing of installation or plant used for
                   telecommunications belonging to any
                   telecommunication licensee; and

             (iii) such other purpose as may be specified in the licence,

       (a) and on such terms and conditions as may be agreed to by
            the licensee and such other persons or licensees or, in
            default of agreement, as may be determined by the
            Authority;

       (b) the sharing and trading of radio frequency spectrum;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               14

          (c) the licensee to comply with any direction given by the
              Authority as to such matters as are specified in the licence
              or are of a description so specified;

(d) the licensee to comply with codes of practice and standards
     of performance that are applicable to the licensee; and

       (e) the licensee to do, or not to do, such things as are specified
            in the licence or are of a description so specified.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (3) The grant of a licence under subsection (1) is subject to the
payment to the Authority of such fees for the grant of the licence as
may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) A licensee must also pay to the Authority such other fees for the
licence, or such periodic fees for the duration of the licence, or
both —

(a) as may be prescribed; or

       (b) if not prescribed, as may be specified by the Authority in
            the licence conditions.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (5) Any fees payable under subsection (3) or (4) in respect of a
licence —

(a) need not bear any relationship to the cost of granting or
     administering the licence; and

       (b) are recoverable by the Authority from the licensee as a debt
            due to the Authority.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (6) A licensee is not entitled to the refund of any fee paid under
subsection (3) or (4) if —

(a) the licence is cancelled or suspended, or the period of the
     licence is reduced, under section 10; or

       (b) the licence is terminated at the request of the licensee.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) No person is to question whether the grant of a licence under
subsection (1) was, or was not, effected with the consent of or in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
15  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

accordance with the terms of a general authority given by the
Minister, and the validity of a licence granted under that subsection
must not be impugned on the ground that it was granted neither with
the consent of nor in accordance with the terms of a general authority
given by the Minister.

 (8) The grant of licences under this section is at the discretion of the
Authority.

 (9) This section does not prevent the Minister from directing the
Authority to grant a licence in any specific case.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (10) Anything done under and in accordance with a licence granted
under subsection (1) does not constitute an infringement of the
privilege conferred by section 3.

Power to grant spectrum right

 6.—(1) The Authority may, with the consent of or in accordance
with the terms of a general authority given by the Minister, grant any
spectrum right —

       (a) unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the
            Authority may impose and specify in the grant of the
            spectrum right, including conditions on the sharing and
            trading of radio frequency spectrum; and

       (b) irrevocably or subject to revocation as specified in the
            grant of the spectrum right for the allocation and use of the
            radio frequency spectrum specified in the grant.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) A spectrum right may be granted under subsection (1) to any
person or class of persons, or to a particular person.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), the Authority may, subject to
the regulations made under section 97, specify, in such form and
manner as the Authority thinks fit —

       (a) the procedure and requirements for the grant of a spectrum
            right under subsection (1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.      Telecommunications Act 1999                           16

(b) the conditions for participating in the process for the
     allocation of the spectrum right; and

       (c) the fees and charges payable, or the manner of determining
            the fees and charges payable, for the grant of the spectrum
            right.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) Without affecting subsection (3), the Authority may employ
any, or any combination, of the following methods to determine the
grant of a spectrum right:

(a) auction;

(b) tender;

       (c) allocation of the spectrum right in exchange for such fees
            or charges as determined or negotiated by the Authority.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (5) The grant of a spectrum right to a person under subsection (1) is
subject to the person paying to the Authority such fees or charges as
may be specified, or as may be determined in the manner specified,
by the Authority under subsection (3)(c).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (6) A person who is granted a spectrum right under subsection (1)
must also pay to the Authority such other fees or charges for the grant,
or such periodic fees or charges for the duration of the grant, or both,
as may be specified, or as may be determined in the manner specified,
by the Authority under subsection (3)(c).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) The fees or charges payable by a person to the Authority under
subsections (5) and (6) are recoverable by the Authority from the
person as a debt due to the Authority.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (8) No person is to question whether the grant of a spectrum right
under subsection (1) was, or was not, effected with the consent of or
in accordance with the terms of a general authority given by the
Minister, and the validity of a spectrum right granted under that
subsection must not be impugned on the ground that it was granted

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
17  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

neither with the consent of nor in accordance with the terms of a
general authority given by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (9) The grant of spectrum rights under subsection (1) is at the
discretion of the Authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (10) This section does not prevent the Minister from directing the
Authority to grant a spectrum right in any specific case.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (11) Anything done under and in accordance with a spectrum right
granted under subsection (1) does not constitute an infringement of
the privilege conferred by section 3.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (12) For the purposes of giving effect to this section or any of the
regulations referred to in subsection (13), the Authority may give
directions to any person who has been granted a spectrum right under
subsection (1) concerning the use of the spectrum right.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (13) For the purposes of giving effect to this section, the Authority
may by regulations made under section 97 —

    (a) provide for the exclusion of any person from participation,
         or limiting the person’s participation, in the process of
         allocation of any spectrum right;

    (b) without affecting subsection (1)(a), specify the types of
         conditions that the Authority may impose on the grant of
         any spectrum right;

    (c) provide for the variation of the conditions of the grant of
        any spectrum right;

    (d) provide for the resumption, by agreement or compulsorily,
         of any spectrum right or part of any spectrum right;

    (e) provide for the suspension or cancellation of the grant of
        any spectrum right or part of any spectrum right and the
        grounds for suspension or cancellation; and

    (f) impose on a person who is granted any spectrum right, for
        the breach of any of the conditions of that grant or of any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               18

          direction issued under this section, a financial penalty of an
          amount not exceeding the higher of the following amounts:

          (i) 10% of the annual turnover of that part of the
              person’s business in respect of which the person is
              granted the spectrum right, as ascertained from the
              person’s latest audited accounts; or

          (ii) $1 million.

                                                [5A

                            [10/2005; 19/2011; 30/2016]

Power to license satellite orbital slots

 7.—(1) The Authority may, with the consent of or in accordance
with the terms of a general authority given by the Minister, grant a
licence for the use of any satellite orbital slot —

       (a) unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the
            Authority may impose and specify in the licence; and

       (b) irrevocably or subject to revocation as specified in the
            licence.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) A licence under subsection (1) —

       (a) may be granted to any person or class of persons, or to a
            particular person; and

       (b) may include (without affecting the power to impose
            conditions conferred by that subsection) conditions
            requiring —

               (i) the licensee to enter into agreements or arrangements
                   with any person or class of persons, or with another
                   telecommunication licensee, for coordination of
                   radio frequencies;

              (ii) the licensee to comply with any direction given by
                   the Authority as to such matters as are specified in
                   the licence, or as are of a description specified in the
                   licence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
19  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (iii) the licensee to comply with codes of practice and
          standards of performance that are applicable to the
          licensee; and

             (iv) the licensee to do, or to refrain from doing, such
                   things as are specified in the licence, or as are of a
                   description specified in the licence.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (3) The grant of a licence under subsection (1) is subject to the
payment to the Authority of such fees for the grant of the licence as
may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) A licensee must also pay to the Authority such other fees for the
licence, or such periodic fees for the duration of the licence, or
both —

    (a) as may be prescribed; or

       (b) if not prescribed, as may be specified by the Authority in
            the licence conditions.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (5) Any fees payable under subsection (3) or (4) in respect of a
licence —

    (a) need not bear any relationship to the cost of granting or
         administering the licence; and

       (b) are recoverable by the Authority from the licensee as a debt
            due to the Authority.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (6) A licensee is not entitled to the refund of any fee paid under
subsection (3) or (4) if —

    (a) the licence is cancelled or suspended, or if the period of the
         licence is reduced, under section 10; or

       (b) the licence is terminated at the request of the licensee.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) No person is to question whether the grant of a licence under
subsection (1) was, or was not, effected with the consent of or in
accordance with the terms of a general authority given by the
Minister, and the validity of a licence granted under that subsection

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               20

must not be impugned on the ground that it was granted neither with
the consent of nor in accordance with the terms of a general authority
given by the Minister.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (8) The grant of licences under this section is at the discretion of the
Authority.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (9) This section does not prevent the Minister from directing the
Authority to grant a licence in any specific case.

                                                                              [5B

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Designation of public telecommunication licensees

 8. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, designate
any person who has been granted a licence under section 5 as a public
telecommunication licensee to perform all or any of the functions
relating to the operation and provision of telecommunication systems
and services in Singapore within the exclusive privilege of the
Authority under this Act.

                                                                                [6

Modification of licence conditions

 9.—(1) Subject to this section, the Authority may modify the
conditions of a licence granted under section 5 or 7.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) Before making modifications to the conditions of a licence of a
public telecommunication licensee under this section, the Authority
must give notice to the licensee —

       (a) stating that it proposes to make the modifications in the
            manner as specified in the notice and the compensation
            payable for any damage caused by the modifications; and

       (b) specifying the time (being at least 28 days from the date of
            service of notice on the licensee) within which written
            representations with respect to the proposed modifications
            may be made.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
21  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the Authority must consider the representation and
may —

    (a) reject the representation; or

    (b) amend the proposed modifications or compensation
         payable in accordance with the representation, or
         otherwise,

and, in either event, the Authority must issue a written direction to the
licensee requiring that effect be given to the proposed modifications
specified in the notice or to such modifications as subsequently
amended by the Authority within a reasonable time.

(4) The Authority must not enforce its direction —

    (a) during the period mentioned in section 89(1) or (7);

    (b) while a reconsideration request of the public
         telecommunication licensee under section 89 in respect
         of a decision of the Authority under this section is under
         consideration by the Authority; or

       (c) while an appeal of the public telecommunication licensee
            under section 89 in respect of a decision of the Authority
            under this section is under consideration by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (5) If no written representation is received by the Authority within
the time specified in subsection (2) or if any written representation
made under that subsection is subsequently withdrawn, the Authority
may forthwith carry out the modifications as specified in the notice
given under that subsection.

                                                                                [7

Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.

 10.—(1) If the Authority is satisfied that a person who is granted a
licence under section 5 or 7 or any regulations made under this Act is
contravening, or has contravened, whether by act or omission —

       (a) any of the conditions of the licence or part thereof;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               22

(b) any provision of any code of practice or standard of
     performance;

          (c) any direction of the Authority given under section 31,
              40(2)(a), (b) or (c), 41(2)(d)(ii) or 43(3); or

(d) section 38 or any terms or conditions of participation in a
     dispute resolution scheme (within the meaning of
     section 51(2)),

the Authority may, by written notice, do either or both of the
following:

          (e) issue such written order to the person as the Authority
              considers requisite for the purpose of securing compliance
              thereof;

          (f) require the person to pay, within a specified period, a
              financial penalty of an amount not exceeding the higher of
              the following amounts:

          (i) 10% of the annual turnover of that part of the
              person’s business in respect of which the person is
              granted the licence, as ascertained from the person’s
              latest audited accounts;

            (ii) $1 million.              [10/2005; 19/2011; 30/2016]
(2) If the Authority is satisfied that —

(a) the person mentioned in subsection (1) is again likely to
     contravene, whether by act or omission, any condition,
     provision, direction or section mentioned in that
     subsection;

(b) the person mentioned in subsection (1) has gone into
     liquidation other than for the purpose of amalgamation or
     reconstruction;

          (c) the person mentioned in subsection (1) is no longer in a
              position to comply with this Act or the terms or conditions
              of the person’s licence; or

(d) the public interest so requires,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
23  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

the Authority may (in lieu of an order or a financial penalty under
subsection (1)(e) or (f)) by written notice and without payment of any
compensation or refund of any fee, do all or any of the following:

    (e) cancel the licence or part thereof;

    (f) suspend the licence or part thereof for such period as the
        Authority thinks fit;

      (g) reduce the period for which the licence is to be in force.

                                                                                             [10/2005; 30/2016]

(3) An order under subsection (1)(e) —

    (a) may require the person concerned (according to the
         circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from
         doing, such things as are specified in the order, or as are of
         a description specified in the order; and

       (b) takes effect at such time (being the earliest practicable
            time) as is determined by or under that order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of an order under subsection (1)(e).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Any person who fails to comply with any order under
subsection (1)(e) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (6) In any proceedings brought against any person for an offence
under subsection (5), it is a defence for the person to prove that the
person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to
avoid contravening the order.

 (7) If the Authority, by written notice under subsection (1), requires
a person who is granted a licence to pay, within a specified period, a
financial penalty under subsection (1)(f), and the person fails or
refuses to pay the financial penalty within the specified period, the
Authority may, by written notice and without payment of any
compensation or refund of any fee, do all or any of the following:

    (a) cancel the licence or part thereof;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               24

(b) suspend the licence or part thereof for such period as the
     Authority thinks fit;

       (c) reduce the period for which the licence is to be in force.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (8) Any financial penalty payable by any person under
subsection (1)(f) is recoverable by the Authority as a debt due to
the Authority from that person; and the person’s liability to pay is not
affected by the person’s licence ceasing (for any reason) to be in
force.

                                                                                [8

Approval of equipment

 11.—(1) The following equipment must be approved by the
Authority before use:

       (a) any equipment to be used for connection (whether directly
            or indirectly) to any telecommunication system;

       (b) any equipment to be used as an adjunct to or in conjunction
            with any telecommunication system; and

       (c) any equipment belonging to a telecommunication system
            licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) A person applying for an approval under this section may be
required by the Authority to comply with such requirements as the
Authority may think appropriate; and those requirements may include
a requirement to satisfy some other person with respect to any matter.

 (3) An approval under this section may apply either to particular
equipment or to any equipment of a description specified in the
approval, and may so apply either for the purposes of a particular
telecommunication system or for the purposes of any
telecommunication system of a description so specified.

 (4) An approval under this section may specify conditions which
must be complied with if the approval is to apply, for any purposes
specified in the approval, to any telecommunication system or
equipment which is so specified or is of a description so specified.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
25  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (5) Any such condition referred to in subsection (4) may impose on
the person to whom the approval is given a requirement from time to
time to satisfy some other person with respect to any matter.

 (6) The Authority or any other person by whom any matter falls to
be determined for the purposes of any requirement imposed pursuant
to subsection (2) or (4) may charge a fee in respect of the carrying out
of any test or other assessment made by the Authority or other person.

 (7) A public telecommunication licensee may, with the approval of
the Authority (except in cases of emergency), cease or refuse to
supply a telecommunication service to any person by means of a
telecommunication system operated by the licensee if, through the
use of such telecommunication service, there is or is intended to be
connected to the telecommunication system, equipment or cabling
that is a threat to —

    (a) the safety or proper functioning of the telecommunication
         system; or

    (b) the safety of any person.

                                                                   [9

                                                              [19/2011]

Residual power of Authority to provide telecommunication
services

 12.—(1) The Authority may provide any telecommunication
service even though it has granted a licence to any person under
section 5, in any of the following circumstances:

       (a) if the Authority is of the opinion that a person licensed
            under section 5 has failed to discharge or is not discharging
            to the Authority’s satisfaction the obligations imposed by
            the Authority on the person in the licence granted to the
            person;

       (b) to give effect to any direction of the Minister under
            section 77.

 (2) Where the Authority undertakes the provision of
telecommunication services under subsection (1), sections 2, 11, 15
to 28, 29(1), 36, 59 to 63, 65 to 76 and 93 apply, with the necessary

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               26

modifications, to the Authority in respect of the provision of such
services and the references to public telecommunication licensee in
those sections are to be read as references to the Authority.

                                                                               [10

Charges and other terms for services provided by Authority

 13.—(1) The Authority may make, in relation to any service
provided by the Authority under this Act, a scheme or schemes for
determining either or both of the following:

       (a) the charges which, except insofar as they are the subject of
            an agreement between the Authority and a person making
            use of the service, are to be made by the Authority;

       (b) the other terms and conditions which, except as provided,
            are to be applicable to the service.

 (2) A scheme made under this section may make different provision
for different cases or classes of cases determined by, or in accordance
with, the provisions of the scheme.

 (3) A charge exigible by virtue of this section may be recovered by
the Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as if it were a
simple contract debt.

 (4) A scheme or any amendment of the scheme made under this
section comes into operation on such date as may be determined by
the Authority.

 (5) This section does not prohibit the Authority from levying any
charge or collecting any dues for anything done or any service
rendered by reason only of not being incorporated in a scheme, and
the rates, charges and fees payable to the Authority for any service
rendered must be in accordance with such rates, charges and fees as
may be determined by the Authority.

 (6) The rates, charges and fees applied by the TAS immediately
before 1 December 1999 continue to be valid as though determined
by the Authority under this section until rescinded, varied or
otherwise determined by the Authority.

                                                                               [11

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
27  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

Sharing of radio frequency spectrum

 14.—(1) Where a person (called the first person) is required under
this Act or any regulations made under this Act, to share with any
other person the radio frequency spectrum allocated to the first person
under a licence granted under section 5 or the grant of a spectrum
right under section 6, for a station or network —

    (a) all persons operating on the shared radio frequency
         spectrum must accept that interference may result from
         the legitimate operation of the station or network specified
         in the licence or the grant of a spectrum right; and

      (b) the Authority is not responsible or liable for any
           interference that may arise from the first person’s or
           other person’s use of the shared radio frequency spectrum.

                                                                                                         [30/2016]

(2) In subsection (1) —

    “network” means 2 or more stations operated by a person and
       used or intended to be used in communication with one
       another;

    “station” means —

    (a) a transmitter;

    (b) a receiver;

    (c) a combination of transmitters and receivers; or

    (d) an accessory to any thing specified in paragraphs (a),
         (b) and (c).
                                                                  [11A

                                                                                           [30/2016]

                                    PART 3

            ERECTION, MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR
          OF TELECOMMUNICATION INSTALLATIONS

Power to enter on and examine land other than State land

 15.—(1) Whenever it appears to a public telecommunication
licensee that it is, or is probably, necessary to exercise the powers

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               28

conferred by this Act upon a public telecommunication licensee in
respect of any land (other than State land) for the provision of any
telecommunication service or installation of any telecommunication
system, that licensee or any person authorised by that licensee in that
behalf may, after giving at least 3 hours’ previous notice to the
occupier of the land (if any) enter upon the land and may survey and
take levels and do all other necessary acts preparatory to the provision
of the service or installation of the system (as the case may be) so far
as the same may be possible without causing any damage or
disturbance.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) In the event of any damage or disturbance being caused by
reason of the entry, the public telecommunication licensee must pay
compensation to the owner or occupier of the land.

 (3) Nothing in this section is deemed to authorise any employee or
agent of a public telecommunication licensee to cut down or clear
away any vegetation or any fence or other erection or to enter any
building or upon any enclosure attached to any building.

                                                                               [12

Power to enter on State land for purposes of installation or
plant

 16.—(1) For the purpose of providing any telecommunication
service or installing any telecommunication system, a public
telecommunication licensee or any person authorised by the
Authority in that behalf may at any reasonable time —

       (a) enter upon any State land;

       (b) subject to the approval of the Authority and the Singapore
            Land Authority, erect in or upon the State land such
            installation or plant used for telecommunications or
            excavate such trenches as may be necessary or proper
            for the purpose of providing the service or installing the
            system, as the case may be; and

       (c) carry out all necessary works in connection therewith, and
            may, in the course thereof, fell or lop trees, remove

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
29  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

            vegetation and do all other things necessary for that
            purpose.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 19/2011]

 (2) Where any such work interferes with improvements, buildings,
growing trees or crops, the licensee must pay compensation for any
damage or disturbance.

 (3) Where the land is occupied under a licence for temporary
occupation, the compensation must be paid to the occupant under the
licence.

                                                                               [13

Power to enter on other land or building for purposes of
installation or plant

 17.—(1) Subject to this section, whenever it is necessary to do so
for the purposes of providing any telecommunication service or
installing any telecommunication system under this Act, a public
telecommunication licensee may under, upon or over any land (other
than State land) or in any building on any land —

       (a) lay, place or carry on and erect such installation or plant
            used for telecommunications as may be necessary or
            proper for such purposes; and

       (b) take such other action as may be necessary to render such
            installation or plant safe and efficient,

and pay compensation to any person interested for any damage,
disturbance or disability that may be caused thereby.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 19/2011]

 (2) Any compensation payable under subsection (1) may include an
annual payment for land, building or other immovable property used
for the purpose of the public telecommunication licensee’s
installation or plant.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (3) A public telecommunication licensee does not acquire any right
other than that of user only in respect of any land, building or other
property under, over, along, across, in or upon which the licensee

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               30

places any installation or plant used for telecommunications under
this section.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (4) Before entering on any land or building for the purpose
specified in subsection (1), a public telecommunication licensee
must give 14 days’ notice stating as fully and accurately as possible
the nature and extent of the acts intended to be done.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (5) The notice must be given to the owner or occupier of the land or
building in the manner provided under this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (6) The owner or occupier of the land or building may, within
14 days after receiving the notice mentioned in subsection (4), lodge a
written objection with the Authority.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) Where a written objection is lodged by the owner or occupier of
the land or building under subsection (6) (called in this section the
objector), the Authority must notify the public telecommunication
licensee concerned to resolve the dispute with the objector due to the
objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (8) On receipt of the Authority’s notice under subsection (7), the
public telecommunication licensee must take genuine steps to resolve
the dispute with the objector due to the objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (9) If the public telecommunication licensee fails to resolve the
dispute due to the objection, the licensee must inform the Authority in
writing and also furnish all relevant information relating to the steps
taken by the licensee to resolve the dispute due to the objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (10) After receipt of the information mentioned in subsection (9),
the Authority must notify the public telecommunication licensee and
the objector as to whether the Authority is satisfied that the licensee
has taken genuine steps to resolve the dispute due to the objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
31  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (11) The Authority must hold an inquiry (in such manner as the
Authority thinks fit) on the objection, giving each party a reasonable
opportunity to be heard if —

    (a) the Authority notifies the parties under subsection (10) that
         the Authority is satisfied that the licensee has taken
         genuine steps to resolve the dispute due to the objection;
         and

    (b) the objection is not withdrawn.

                                                              [30/2016]

 (12) Upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Authority may
authorise, either unconditionally or subject to such terms,
conditions and stipulations as it thinks fit, any of the acts
mentioned in the notice given under subsection (4) to be carried out.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 30/2016]

 (13) The public telecommunication licensee may enter the land or
building and do all or any of the acts mentioned in the notice given
under subsection (4) —

    (a) where no written objection is lodged within the period
         mentioned in subsection (6), after the expiry of that period;
         or

    (b) where a written objection is lodged under subsection (6) —

    (i) after the objection is withdrawn;

    (ii) after the public telecommunication licensee resolves
         the dispute with the objector due to the objection; or

    (iii) on the Authority’s authorisation under
          subsection (12) subject to the terms, conditions and
          stipulations imposed by the Authority under that
          subsection.
                                                                     [14

                                                                                            [30/2016]

Transfer of installation or plant

 18.—(1) Where a public telecommunication licensee (called in this
section the transferor licensee), after having laid, placed, carried on or
erected any installation or plant used for telecommunications under

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               32

section 16 or 17, transfers the installation or plant, or any part of it, to
another public telecommunication licensee (called in this section the
transferee licensee), all rights conferred and obligations imposed on
the transferor licensee under this Act in respect of any land, building
or other property under, over, along, across, in or upon which the
transferred installation or plant (or part of it) has been laid, placed,
carried on or erected are deemed, on the transfer date, by virtue of this
subsection and without further assurance, to have been transferred to
the transferee licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) Subsection (1) applies to every transfer of installation or plant
(or part of it) referred to in that subsection which takes place on or
after 1 July 2011.

                                                                             [14A

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Saving of wayleave agreements

 19. Subsections (1) and (6) of section 17 do not —

       (a) affect the right of a public telecommunication licensee to
            enter into an agreement, commonly known as a wayleave
            agreement, with the owner or occupier of any land for the
            purpose of laying, placing, carrying or erecting any
            installation or plant used for telecommunications on the
            land;

       (b) affect any such wayleave agreement subsisting
            immediately before 1 December 1999; or

       (c) affect the right of a public telecommunication licensee to
            negotiate the use of land or facilities belonging to the State
            or any other person.
                                                                               [15

Inspection, maintenance and repair of installation or plant for
telecommunications

 20.—(1) Whenever it is necessary to do so for the purposes of
carrying out any functions and duties of the Authority under this Act
or any regulations made under this Act, the Authority may enter upon
any land or building, or stop or board any vessel, aircraft or vehicle

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
33  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

and may carry out all necessary inspections or investigations and do
all things necessary for such purpose.

 (2) Whenever it is necessary to do so for the purpose of inspecting,
maintaining or repairing a public telecommunication licensee’s
installation or plant or for the purpose of carrying out any
functions conferred on a public telecommunication licensee under
this Act or under any licence granted under section 5, that licensee or
any person authorised by that licensee in that behalf may at any
reasonable time —

    (a) enter upon any land or building, whether or not such
         installation or plant has been laid, placed, carried or erected
         on, under, upon or over the land or building; and

    (b) carry out all necessary inspection, maintenance or repair,
         and may in the course of that, fell or lop trees, remove
         vegetation and do all other things necessary for the
         purpose, causing as little damage as possible,

and pay compensation to any person adversely affected for any
damage that may be caused thereby for which compensation has not
already been assessed under section 17.

                                                                               [16

Alteration or relocation of public telecommunication licensee’s
installation or plant

 21.—(1) Where a public telecommunication licensee’s installation
or plant has been laid, placed, carried or erected in, on, over, under,
upon, along or across any land or building under section 16 or 17 (as
the case may be) and the owner or occupier of the land or building
desires to use the land or building in a manner which renders it
necessary or convenient for such installation or plant to be altered,
removed, relocated or diverted, the owner or occupier may request
the public telecommunication licensee to alter, remove, relocate or
divert such installation or plant accordingly.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) The public telecommunication licensee must, at the request of
the owner or occupier of the land or building under subsection (1),
alter, remove, relocate or divert the installation or plant if it is

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               34

satisfied that such alteration, removal, relocation or diversion is
reasonable and the owner or occupier complies with such reasonable
terms and conditions as the licensee may impose.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (3) The terms and conditions a public telecommunication licensee
may impose under subsection (2) may include terms and conditions
relating to the payment by the owner or occupier of the land or
building of all costs and expenses necessary for such alteration,
removal, relocation or diversion.

                                                                               [17

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Removal of trees dangerous to or obstructing any installation
or plant for telecommunications

 22.—(1) Where, in the opinion of a public telecommunication
licensee, there is at any time danger or suspected danger that any tree
(which term in this section includes undergrowth) near the licensee’s
installation or plant may interrupt or interfere with any
telecommunication service provided by the licensee or cause
damage to such installation or plant, the licensee may cause the
tree to be felled or dealt with in such other manner as will, in its
opinion, avert the danger.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) A public telecommunication licensee is, in the exercise of its
powers under subsection (1), subject to the provisions of the Parks
and Trees Act 2005.

 (3) Where a tree, which has been felled or otherwise dealt with
under subsection (1), was in existence before the public
telecommunication licensee’s installation or plant was placed,
erected or installed, the licensee may, subject to subsections (4)
and (5), pay to any person adversely affected such sum as may be
agreed by way of compensation.

 (4) No further compensation shall be paid for the felling or lopping
of any tree or the clearing of any vegetation where the action is
necessary for the maintenance of a public telecommunication
licensee’s installation or plant and the tree and vegetation have

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
35  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

grown or been allowed to grow since the payment of compensation
under subsection (3).

 (5) No compensation is payable by a public telecommunication
licensee under subsection (3) in respect of any tree within 20 metres
of the centre line of any road constructed or maintained by the
Government or by any public authority unless it is proved that the tree
was in existence prior to the construction of the road.

 (6) Before the owner or occupier of any land fells, lops or clears any
tree or vegetation adjacent to a public telecommunication licensee’s
installation or plant, the owner or occupier must give the licensee
14 days’ notice in writing of the intention to do so and must take all
such reasonable precautions as the licensee may require for the
protection of such installation or plant.

 (7) If any such owner or occupier fails to give notice as provided
under subsection (6) or having given notice fails to take any such
reasonable precautions as the public telecommunication licensee may
have required, the owner or occupier is liable to pay the licensee any
cost and expense incurred by the licensee for any damage caused to
any such installation or plant.

 (8) A certificate purporting to be under the hand of the chief
executive of the licensee stating the amount of the cost and expense
incurred by the licensee under subsection (7) is prima facie evidence
of the amount due from the owner or occupier.

 (9) If the amount due for the cost and expense is not paid within
7 days after demand, the amount may be recovered in the same
manner as if it were a simple contract debt.

 (10) If any tree is felled or vegetation is cleared upon land adjacent
to a public telecommunication licensee’s installation or plant, it is
presumed until the contrary is proved that the tree was felled or the
vegetation was cleared by the owner or occupier of the land or by the
owner’s or occupier’s employees or agents acting as such.

                                                                               [18

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               36

Provision of space or facility under code of practice

23.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time —

(a) issue one or more codes of practice for or in connection
     with the provision, maintenance and use of, and access to,
     space and facilities within or on any land or building for the
     operation of any installation, plant or system used for
     telecommunications, and the allocation of costs and
     expenses incurred for such provision, maintenance, use
     and access; and

       (b) amend, suspend or revoke the whole or any part of any
            code of practice issued under paragraph (a).

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (2) A code of practice issued under subsection (1) may, in
particular —

(a) require the developer or owner of any land or building to
     provide, maintain or give access to, at the developer’s or
     owner’s expense, such space or facility within or on the
     land or building, for the installation, operation or
     maintenance of any installation, plant or system used for
     either or both of the following purposes:

          (i) the provision of any telecommunication service or
              radio‑communication service to that land or
              building;

          (ii) the provision of any telecommunication service or
               radio‑communication service to any other land or
               building; and

       (b) provide for such fees and charges as may be payable to the
            Authority in relation to any application or request made to
            the Authority under the code of practice.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice issued under
subsection (1) is inconsistent with any provision of this Act, that
provision in that code of practice, to the extent of the inconsistency —

(a) has effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
37  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

       (b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, does not have
            effect.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) A code of practice issued under subsection (1) does not have
legislative effect.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), every developer or owner of any land
or building, and every telecommunication licensee, to whom any
code of practice issued under subsection (1) applies must comply, at
that person’s expense, with that code of practice.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) The Authority may, either generally or for such time as the
Authority may specify, waive the application, to any developer or
owner of any land or building or to any telecommunication licensee,
of any code of practice issued under subsection (1) or of any part
thereof.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (7) The Authority may give a written notice to a telecommunication
licensee, or a developer, owner or occupier of any land or building,
requiring compliance with any code of practice issued under
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (8) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of a written notice given under subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (9) To avoid doubt, the Authority may give a written notice under
subsection (7) even though such written notice may prejudice the
contractual obligations of the telecommunication licensee, or the
developer, owner or occupier of any land or building, whether the
obligation relates to a contract made before, on or after 1 February
2017.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (10) No liability shall lie against any party to a contract made
before, on or after 1 February 2017 for or in relation to, any breach of
the contract where the breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned
by, the compliance by that party with any written notice given under
subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               38

 (11) Subsection (10) does not affect the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (12) Where any code of practice issued under subsection (1) applies
to a person who is a developer or an owner of any land or building,
and the Authority is satisfied that the person is contravening, or has
contravened, whether by act or omission, any provision of that code
of practice, the Authority may issue such written order to the person
as the Authority considers necessary for the purpose of securing
compliance with that provision.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (13) An order under subsection (12) —

(a) may require the person concerned (according to the
     circumstances of the case) to do, or to refrain from
     doing, such things as are specified in the order, or as are of
     a description specified in the order; and

       (b) takes effect at such time (being the earliest practicable
            time) as is determined by or under that order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (14) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of an order under subsection (12).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (15) Any person referred to in subsection (12) who fails to comply
with an order under that subsection shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (16) Any relevant specifications in force immediately before
1 February 2012 —

(a) are deemed to be a code of practice issued under
     subsection (1); and

(b) remain in force until revoked or replaced by a code of
     practice issued under subsection (1).

                                                                                                 [19/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
39  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (17) In subsection (16) “relevant specifications” means any
specifications published by the Authority under section 23 in force
immediately before 1 February 2012.

                                                                               [19

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Provision of facilities for radio-communication

 24.—(1) Any person who intends to install, erect or construct,
within a radius of 200 metres from the site of a telecommunication
licensee’s installation or plant used in connection with its
radio‑communication service, any building more than 30 metres
above ground level must notify the licensee in writing before carrying
out any such installation, erection or construction.

 (2) The telecommunication licensee may, after receiving such
notification from the person, make arrangements with the person for
the licensee to enter upon the building at any reasonable time to
provide such accommodation or other facilities in or around the
building as may be necessary or proper for any installation or plant
used in connection with radio‑communication service to be laid,
placed, constructed, erected or installed in, on or around the building.

 (3) Where, in the opinion of a telecommunication licensee, a
building which is installed, erected or constructed after the licensee’s
installation or plant used in connection with its radio‑communication
service was laid, placed, constructed, erected or installed in or around
the building, interrupts or interferes with the licensee’s
radio‑communication service or system, the licensee may, with the
approval of the Authority, at any reasonable time, enter upon the
building to provide such accommodation or other facilities in or
around the building as may be necessary or proper for such
installation or plant to be laid, placed, constructed, erected or
installed in, on or around the building for the purposes of eliminating
such interruption or interference.

 (4) The telecommunication licensee must pay compensation to the
owner or occupier of any building for any disturbance, disability or
damage caused as a result of any act of the licensee under
subsection (2) or (3).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               40

 (5) In this section and section 23, “building” means any permanent
or temporary building and includes any structure or erection of any
kind (whether permanent or temporary) and any extension,
modification or alteration made thereto.

                                                                               [20

Provision of space or facility or installation, plant or system by
direction of Authority

 25.—(1) Where the Authority considers it necessary that any
telecommunication service should be provided to any land or
building (whether completed or not) or any occupier of the land or
building, or that the quality of a telecommunication service provided
to any land or building or to any occupier of that land or building
should be enhanced, the Authority may by direction —

       (a) require the developer or owner of the land or building to
            provide, at the developer’s or owner’s expense and within
            such period as may be specified in the direction, such space
            or facility within or on that land or building, and access to
            that land or building, as the Authority may specify in its
            direction; and

       (b) require any telecommunication licensee to install, within
            such period as may be specified in the direction, such
            installation, plant or system in that space or facility as the
            Authority considers necessary for the provision, or the
            enhancement of quality, of the telecommunication service
            to that land or building or to the occupier of that land or
            building.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (2) Where the Authority considers it necessary that any
broadcasting service, the operation of which requires a
telecommunication system, should be provided to any land or
building, whether completed or not, or that the quality of any such
broadcasting service provided to any land or building should be
enhanced, the Authority may by direction —

       (a) require the developer or owner of the land or building to
            provide at the developer’s or owner’s expense and within
            such period as may be specified in the direction, such space

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
41  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    or facility within or on the land or building, and access
    thereto, as the Authority may specify in its direction; and

      (b) require any telecommunication licensee to install, within
           such period as may be specified in the direction, such
           installation, plant or system as the Authority considers
           necessary for the provision, or the enhancement of quality,
           of the broadcasting service to the land or building.

                                                                                              [19/2011; 22/2016]

(3) Where the Authority —

    (a) considers it necessary that in relation to any land or
         building, whether completed or not (called in this section
         the relevant property), a radio‑communication service
         should be provided to the relevant property or the quality
         of a radio‑communication service provided to the relevant
         property should be enhanced; and

    (b) is satisfied that it would be in the public interest for a
         telecommunication licensee providing the
         radio‑communication service to install any installation,
         plant or system within or on another land or building
         (called in this section the subject property) in order to serve
         the relevant property or enhance the quality of the
         radio‑communication service provided to the relevant
         property,

the Authority may by direction —

    (c) require the developer or owner of the subject property in
        paragraph (b) to provide, at the developer’s or owner’s
        expense and within such period as may be specified in the
        direction, such space or facility within or on the subject
        property, and access to the subject property, as the
        Authority may specify in its direction; and

    (d) require the telecommunication licensee to install within or
         on the subject property, within such period as may be
         specified in the direction, such installation, plant or system
         as the Authority considers necessary for the provision or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               42

            enhancement of the quality of the radio‑communication
            service to the relevant property.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) To avoid doubt, the Authority may give directions under
subsection (1), (2), (3) or (13) even though such directions may
prejudice the contractual obligations of the telecommunication
licensee, or the developer, owner or occupier of any land or
building, whether the obligation relates to a contract made before,
on or after 1 February 2017.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (5) No liability shall lie against any party to a contract made before,
on or after 1 February 2017 for or in relation to, any breach of the
contract where the breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned by,
the compliance by that party with any direction of the Authority under
subsection (1), (2), (3) or (13).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (6) Subsection (5) does not affect the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) Where a telecommunication licensee that is using any space or
facility within or on any land or building pursuant to a direction under
subsection (1), (2) or (3), or any code of practice issued by the
Authority, intends to use that space or facility —

(a) to provide any telecommunication service or broadcasting
     service, or to enhance the quality of any
     telecommunication service or broadcasting service
     provided, to any land or building not in the direction to
     the licensee under subsection (1) or (2);

(b) to provide any radio‑communication service, or to enhance
     the quality of any radio‑communication service provided,
     to any land or building that is not the relevant land or
     building in the direction to the licensee under
     subsection (3); or

          (c) to provide any telecommunication service, broadcasting
              service or radio‑communication service that is not in the
              direction to the licensee under subsection (1), (2) or (3) (as

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
43  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    the case may be) whether or not to the same land or
    building in the direction,

the licensee must give 14 days’ notice to the developer or owner of
that land or building, stating as fully and accurately as possible the
nature and extent of the acts intended to be done for the purpose of
paragraph (a), (b) or (c), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (8) The developer or owner of the land or building may, within
14 days after receiving a notice under subsection (7), lodge a written
objection with the Authority.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (9) Where a written objection is lodged by the developer or owner
of the land or building under subsection (8) (called in this section the
objector), the Authority must notify the telecommunication licensee
concerned to resolve the dispute with the objector due to the
objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (10) On receipt of the Authority’s notice under subsection (9), the
telecommunication licensee must take genuine steps to resolve the
dispute with the objector due to the objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (11) If the telecommunication licensee fails to resolve the dispute
due to the objection, the licensee must inform the Authority in writing
and also furnish all relevant information relating to the steps taken by
the licensee to resolve the dispute due to the objection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (12) After receipt of the information mentioned in subsection (11),
the Authority —

    (a) must notify the telecommunication licensee and the
         objector as to whether the Authority is satisfied that the
         licensee has taken genuine steps to resolve the dispute due
         to the objection; and

    (b) if so satisfied, must hold an inquiry (in such manner as the
         Authority thinks fit) on the objection, giving each party a
         reasonable opportunity to be heard if the objection is not
         withdrawn.

                                                                                                     [30/2016]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               44

 (13) Upon the conclusion of the inquiry, the Authority may, upon
being satisfied that the use of the space or facility for a purpose in the
notice given under subsection (7) would be reasonable, by directions
to the telecommunication licensee or the developer or owner of the
land or building require either or both to give effect to the notice in
such manner and on such terms, conditions and stipulations as the
Authority may specify in the direction, including directions that —

(a) require the developer or owner to allow the licensee to use
     the space or facility; or

       (b) require the licensee to install and operate any installation,
            plant or system within the space or facility.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (14) The telecommunication licensee may enter on the land or
building and do all or any of the acts mentioned in the notice given
under subsection (7) —

(a) where no written objection is lodged within the period
     specified in subsection (8), after the expiry of that period;
     or

(b) where a written objection is lodged under subsection (8) —

          (i) after the objection is withdrawn;

          (ii) after the telecommunication licensee resolves the
               dispute with the objector due to the objection; or

             (iii) on the Authority’s direction under subsection (13),
                   subject to the terms, conditions and stipulations
                   imposed by the Authority under that subsection.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (15) Any direction under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (13) may
include —

(a) a requirement that the telecommunication licensee must
     contribute, wholly or partly, to such costs and expenses
     incurred for the provision and use of any space or facility
     or installation, plant or system under subsection (1), (2),
     (3) or (13) as the Authority may determine;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
45  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (b) terms and conditions relating to the payment of costs and
         expenses necessary for any alteration, removal, relocation
         or diversion of the installation, plant or system that may
         subsequently be required; and

       (c) such other requirements as the Authority may specify.

                                                                                    [10/2005; 19/2011; 30/2016]

 (16) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of a direction under subsection (1), (2), (3) or (13).

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (17) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement in a
direction under this section shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [21

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Prohibition against exclusive agreements or arrangements

 26.—(1) The developer or owner of any land or building —

       (a) must not enter into or enforce any agreement or
            arrangement with any occupier of the land or building
            that restricts or prevents the occupier from selecting any
            supplier of telecommunication systems and services to
            provide telecommunication services to the occupier; and

       (b) must not enter into or enforce any agreement or
            arrangement with any telecommunication licensee that
            restricts or prevents other telecommunication licensees
            from installing their installation, plant or system in the land
            or building or supplying telecommunication systems and
            services to the land or building or supplying
            telecommunication services to any occupier of the land
            or building.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (2) The Authority may give such directions as the Authority thinks
fit to be observed by the telecommunication licensee, or the
developer, owner or occupier of the land or building, to ensure
compliance with subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (3) To avoid doubt, the Authority may give directions under
subsection (2) even though such directions may prejudice the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               46

contractual obligations of the telecommunication licensee, or the
developer, owner or occupier of any land or building, whether the
obligation relates to a contract made before, on or after 1 February
2017.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) No liability shall lie against any party to a contract made before,
on or after 1 February 2017 for or in relation to, any breach of the
contract where the breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned by,
the compliance by that party with any direction of the Authority under
subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (5) Subsection (4) does not affect the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (6) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of a direction given under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) Any person who fails to comply with any requirement in a
direction under this section shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [22

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

Disputes as to compensation

 27. If any dispute arises under sections 15(2), 16(2), 17(1), 20(2),
22(3) and 24(4), it shall, on application for that purpose by any
aggrieved person to the Authority, be determined by the Authority.

                                                                               [23

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Precautions in execution of work

 28. The execution of any work by a public telecommunication
licensee under this Act which may affect any street, railway, river,
canal, or other waterway or any system of irrigation, drainage or
water supply or any telecommunications, harbour works or any other
public or private works, and the erection of any installation or plant
used for telecommunications whether over, on or under the ground

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
47  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

must be carried out in a lawful manner having regard to the safety of
any person or property.

                                                                               [24

Exemption from distress and attachment, etc.

 29.—(1) The installation or plant used for telecommunications of a
public telecommunication licensee shall not be subject to distress or
be liable to be taken under or pursuant to an enforcement order under
any process of a court in any bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings
against any person without the Minister’s prior written approval.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) Every installation or plant used for telecommunications placed
under, over, along, across, in or upon any property by a public
telecommunication licensee remains the property of the licensee
concerned whether or not it has become in whole or in part a fixture.

                                                                               [25

                                    PART 4

              CODES OF PRACTICE, STANDARDS OF
        PERFORMANCE, DIRECTIONS AND ADVISORY

           GUIDELINES ON TELECOMMUNICATIONS

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Codes of practice and standards of performance on
telecommunications

 30.—(1) The Authority may, from time to time —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice or standards of
            performance;

       (b) approve as a code of practice or standard of performance
            any document prepared by a person other than the
            Authority, if the Authority considers the document to be
            suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) review, amend or revoke any code of practice or standard
            of performance issued under paragraph (a) or approved
            under paragraph (b),

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               48

with respect to all or any of the following:

(d) the operation of telecommunication systems and
     equipment;

          (e) the provision of telecommunication services;

          (f) the activities and conduct of telecommunication licensees
              in the provision of telecommunication services;

(g) the provision of services relating to the use of, or access to,
     telecommunication systems;

(h) the activities and conduct of telecommunication licensees
     in the provision of services relating to the use of, or access
     to, telecommunication systems;

          (i) competition, abuse of a dominant position in the market
              and fair market conduct in the telecommunication industry
              in Singapore;

          (j) the acquisitions or consolidations involving a
              telecommunication licensee and any other person
              (whether a telecommunication licensee or otherwise);

          (k) the collection, use and disclosure by telecommunication
              licensees of information about subscribers of
              telecommunication services, without the subscribers’
              consent, including information about the subscribers’
              personal data, telecommunication subscription and usage;

        (l) the carrying out of the purposes and provisions of this Act
            and the due administration thereof.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (2) A code of practice issued or approved under subsection (1) may,
in particular —

(a) specify the duties and obligations of any person in relation
     to the person’s business operation in the
     telecommunication industry; and

(b) provide for such fees and charges as may be payable to the
     Authority in relation to any application or request made to
     the Authority under the code of practice.

                                                                                                 [19/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
49  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice or standard of
performance issued or approved under subsection (1) is
inconsistent with any provision of this Act, that provision in that
code of practice or standard of performance, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

    (a) has effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

       (b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, does not have
            effect.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) A code of practice or standard of performance issued or
approved under subsection (1) does not have legislative effect.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), every telecommunication licensee to
whom any code of practice or standard of performance issued or
approved under subsection (1) applies must comply with that code of
practice or standard of performance.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) The Authority may, either generally or for such time as the
Authority may specify, waive the application, to any
telecommunication licensee, of any code of practice or standard of
performance issued or approved under subsection (1) or of any part of
any such code of practice or standard of performance.

                                                                               [26

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Directions affecting telecommunication licensees

 31.—(1) The Authority may give directions to be observed by
telecommunication licensees —

       (a) to ensure the reliability of the provision of any
            telecommunication service to the public;

       (b) to ensure the technical compatibility and safety of
            operation of any equipment or telecommunication system;

       (c) to ensure fair and efficient market conduct by
            telecommunication licensees;

       (d) to ensure the coordination and cooperation, on such terms
            as the Authority may specify, with any other person in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               50

          use or sharing of any installation, plant or system (or part
          of it) owned or used by the telecommunication licensee for
          the provision of any telecommunication service; or

          (e) in the public interest.

                                       [10/2005; 19/2011]

 (2) The Authority may give directions to be observed by
telecommunication licensees —

(a) to ensure the reliability of the provision of any
     broadcasting service, the operation of which requires a
     telecommunication system, to the public;

(b) to ensure the technical compatibility and safety of
     operation of any equipment or telecommunication
     system used for the provision of any broadcasting service;

          (c) to ensure fair and efficient market conduct by
              telecommunication licensees in relation to the use of
              telecommunication systems for the provision of
              broadcasting services;

(d) to ensure the coordination and cooperation, on such terms
     as the Authority may specify, with any other person in the
     use or sharing of any installation, plant or system (or part
     of it) owned or used by the telecommunication licensee for
     the provision of any broadcasting service; or

      (e) in relation to the provision of any broadcasting service, the
           operation of which requires a telecommunication system,
           in the public interest.

                                                                                              [19/2011; 22/2016]

(3) A direction under subsection (1) or (2) —

(a) may require the telecommunication licensee concerned
     (according to the circumstances of the case) to do, or to
     refrain from doing, such things as are specified in the
     direction, or as are of a description specified in the
     direction; and

(b) takes effect at such time (being the earliest practicable
     time) as is determined by or under that direction.

                                                                                                 [19/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
51  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of a direction under subsection (1) or (2).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Before giving a direction to any telecommunication licensee
under subsection (1) or (2) or varying a direction under
subsection (4), the Authority must, unless the Authority in respect
of any particular direction considers that it is not practicable or
desirable, give notice —

    (a) stating that the Authority proposes to make or vary the
         direction and setting out its effect; and

    (b) specifying the time within which representations or
         objections to the proposed direction or variation may be
         made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 19/2011]

 (6) Every telecommunication licensee must comply with every
direction of the Authority given to the licensee under this section.

                                                                               [27

Advisory guidelines
 32.—(1) The Authority may make written advisory guidelines

about any aspect of telecommunications.
 (2) Advisory guidelines, for example, may be made about —
       (a) any matter in respect of which codes of practice and
            standards of performance may be made under section 30;
       (b) the use, construction, design or performance of anything;
       (c) interference with radio-communications; or
       (d) frequency allocation and coordination.
 (3) The Authority must —
       (a) give a copy of each advisory guideline it makes to the
            Minister; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               52

(b) publish each advisory guideline in the way it thinks fit.
                                                                       [28

                                    PART 5

     TELECOMMUNICATION CABLE DETECTION WORK

Telecommunication cable detection work to be carried out
before earthworks

 33.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not commence or
carry out, or cause or permit the commencement or carrying out of,
any earthworks which are within the vicinity of any
telecommunication cable belonging to or under the management or
control of a telecommunication system licensee unless —

       (a) the person has given to the telecommunication system
            licensee at least 7 days’ (or such other period as the
            Authority may allow in any particular case) notice in
            writing of the date on which it is proposed to commence
            the earthworks;

       (b) the person has obtained from the telecommunication
            system licensee the necessary information on the
            location of such telecommunication cable and has
            consulted the licensee on the steps to be taken to prevent
            the telecommunication cable from damage while the
            earthworks are being carried out; and

       (c) the person has caused telecommunication cable detection
            work to be performed or carried out by a licensed
            telecommunication cable detection worker in order to
            confirm the location of the telecommunication cable.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not prohibit a person from commencing or
carrying out any earthworks where the person has reasonable cause to
believe that it is necessary to do so in the interest of public or private
safety, except that the person must, not more than 7 days after the
earthworks have been commenced or carried out, give to the
telecommunication system licensee a written notice stating the
nature and extent of those earthworks.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
53  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (3) It is the duty of the person who carries out any earthworks
referred to in subsection (1) —

    (a) to comply with all reasonable requirements of the
         telecommunication system licensee for the prevention of
         damage to the telecommunication cable;

    (b) to ensure that reasonable precautions are taken when
         carrying out such earthworks to prevent any damage to the
         telecommunication cable, including but not limited to site
         supervision of the earthworks; and

    (c) to allow the telecommunication system licensee reasonable
        access to the work site for the purpose of inspecting or
        taking any necessary measures to protect the
        telecommunication cable.

 (4) It is the duty of a telecommunication system licensee to whom a
notice under subsection (1)(a) has been given —

    (a) to promptly inform the person who has given the
         telecommunication system licensee the notice of the
         location of the telecommunication cable and to provide
         such person with any other information as may be
         necessary to enable the person to ascertain the exact
         location of the telecommunication cable;

    (b) to advise the person who has given the telecommunication
         system licensee the notice on the precautions to be taken to
         prevent damage to the telecommunication cable; and

    (c) to take all such measures at the work site as may be
        reasonable and necessary for the protection of the
        telecommunication cable from damage and, in so doing,
        the telecommunication system licensee must have regard
        to the potential risks and dangers that can arise from any
        damage to the telecommunication cable.

 (5) A person (other than a licensed telecommunication cable
detection worker) must not commence or carry out any
telecommunication cable detection work within the vicinity of any
telecommunication cable belonging to or under the management or
control of a telecommunication system licensee where such

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               54

telecommunication cable detection work is commenced or carried out
in connection or combination with or in relation to any earthworks
carried out or to be carried out.

 (6) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) or (3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), in any proceedings for an offence
under subsection (6), it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

(a) that the person took all reasonable steps to discharge the
     person’s duty under subsection (1) or (3), as the case may
     be; or

(b) that the person took all reasonable precautions and
     exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of
     the offence.

 (8) If in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (6) the
defence involves acting on information supplied by a
telecommunication system licensee or a licensed
telecommunication cable detection worker, the person charged is
not, without permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence
unless, within 14 clear days before the hearing, the person charged
has served on the prosecutor a written notice giving such information
as was then in the person’s possession identifying or assisting in the
identification of the person who supplied the information to the
person charged.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (9) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                               [29

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
55  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

Powers of Authority in relation to telecommunication cable
detection work

34. The Authority may —

    (a) grant a telecommunication cable detection work licence
         permitting a person to perform such telecommunication
         cable detection work as is specified in the licence and may
         suspend, cancel, alter, extend, renew or replace any such
         licence;

    (b) classify any telecommunication cable detection work
         licence in such manner as it determines;

    (c) specify the nature of the telecommunication cable
        detection work in respect of which a telecommunication
        cable detection work licence is granted and restrict such
        work to any type or class of telecommunication cable
        detection work;

    (d) specify the circumstances or manner in which licensed
         cable detection workers may perform or carry out
         telecommunication cable detection work;

    (e) impose any terms, conditions or restrictions on any
        telecommunication cable detection work licence;

    (f) require any public telecommunication licensee to conduct
        approved courses of training, including refresher courses,
        and provide for examinations for telecommunication cable
        detection workers;

    (g) keep a register of licensed telecommunication cable
         detection workers; and

    (h) do any act or thing which is necessary or convenient to
         carrying out the objects of this Part or is incidental thereto.
                                                                           [30

Licensed telecommunication cable detection workers

 35.—(1) Any person who, not being a licensed telecommunication
cable detection worker, advertises or holds himself or herself out or
conducts himself or herself in any way or by any means as a person

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               56

who is a licensed telecommunication cable detection worker shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) A person (other than a licensed telecommunication cable
detection worker) is not entitled to recover in any court any charge,
fee or remuneration for any telecommunication cable detection work
performed or carried out by the person.

                                                                               [31

Duty to enquire before excavation

 36. Any person who digs, bores, trenches, grades, excavates or
breaks any ground with any mechanical equipment or explosive or
allows employee or agent of the person to do so without first
ascertaining the location of any telecommunication cable belonging
to or under the management or control of any telecommunication
system licensee that may be interfered with shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$100,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

                                                                               [32

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

                                   PART 5A

    CONTROL OF DESIGNATED TELECOMMUNICATION
     LICENSEES, DESIGNATED BUSINESS TRUSTS AND

                          DESIGNATED TRUSTS

Interpretation of this Part

 37.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “12% controller” means —

              (a) in relation to a designated telecommunication
                   licensee, a person who, alone or together with the
                   person’s associates —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
57  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (i) holds 12% or more but less than 30% of the
        total number of voting shares in the designated
        telecommunication licensee; or

    (ii) is in a position to control 12% or more but less
         than 30% of the voting power in the designated
         telecommunication licensee;

    (b) in relation to a designated business trust, a person
         who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

    (i) holds 12% or more but less than 30% of the
        total number of units in the designated business
        trust; or

    (ii) is in a position to control 12% or more but less
         than 30% of the voting power in the designated
         business trust; or

    (c) in relation to a designated trust, a person who, alone
        or together with the person’s associates —

    (i) holds 12% or more but less than 30% of the
        equity interests in the designated trust; or

    (ii) is in a position to control 12% or more but less
         than 30% of the voting power in the designated
         trust;

    “30% controller” means —

    (a) in relation to a designated telecommunication
         licensee, a person who, alone or together with the
         person’s associates —

    (i) holds 30% or more of the total number of
        voting shares in the designated
        telecommunication licensee; or

    (ii) is in a position to control 30% or more of the
         voting power in the designated
         telecommunication licensee;

    (b) in relation to a designated business trust, a person
         who, alone or together with the person’s associates —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               58

          (i) holds 30% or more of the total number of units
              in the designated business trust; or

          (ii) is in a position to control 30% or more of the
               voting power in the designated business trust;
               or

          (c) in relation to a designated trust, a person who, alone
              or together with the person’s associates —

          (i) holds 30% or more of the equity interests in the
              designated trust; or

          (ii) is in a position to control 30% or more of the
               voting power in the designated trust;

“business” means —

          (a) in relation to a designated business trust, the business
               relating to the trust property of the designated
               business trust and managed and operated by the
               trustee‑manager of the designated business trust in its
               capacity as trustee‑manager of the designated
               business trust; or

          (b) in relation to a designated trust, such business
               relating to the trust property of the designated trust
               as is prescribed by any regulations made under
               section 97;

“business trust” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Business Trusts Act 2004;

“corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“designated business trust” means a business trust that —

          (a) is established wholly or partly in respect of a
               telecommunication system (or any part of it)
               operated by a telecommunication system licensee;
               and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
59  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (b) has been declared by the Authority under
         subsection (2) to be a designated business trust for
         the purposes of this Part;

    “designated telecommunication licensee” means a
       telecommunication licensee that is a corporation and that —

    (a) has been declared by the Authority under
         subsection (2) to be a designated
         telecommunication licensee for the purposes of this
         Part; or

    (b) belongs to a class of telecommunication licensees
         which has been declared by the Authority under
         subsection (2) to be a class of designated
         telecommunication licensees for the purposes of
         this Part;

    “designated trust” means a trust that —

    (a) is prescribed, or belongs to a class of trusts
         prescribed, by any regulations made under
         section 97;

    (b) is established wholly or partly in respect of a
         telecommunication system (or any part of it)
         operated by a telecommunication system licensee;
         and

    (c) has been declared by the Authority under
        subsection (2) to be a designated trust for the
        purposes of this Part;

    “effective control” means —

    (a) in relation to a designated telecommunication
         licensee, the ability to cause the designated
         telecommunication licensee to take, or to refrain
         from taking, a major decision regarding the
         management or operations of the designated
         telecommunication licensee;

    (b) in relation to a designated business trust, the ability to
         cause the trustee‑manager of the designated business

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               60

          trust to take, or to refrain from taking, a major
          decision regarding the management or operations of
          the designated business trust; or

          (c) in relation to a designated trust, the ability to cause
              the trustee of the designated trust to take, or to refrain
              from taking, a major decision regarding the
              management or operations of the designated trust;

“equity interest” means —

          (a) in relation to a corporation, a voting share in that
               corporation;

          (b) in relation to a designated business trust, a unit in that
               designated business trust; or

          (c) in relation to a designated trust, any right or interest,
              whether legal or equitable, in that designated trust
              which gives the holder of that right or interest voting
              power in that designated trust;

“related corporation” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of
   the Companies Act 1967;

“relative”, in relation to a person, means —

          (a) the person’s spouse;

          (b) a parent or remoter lineal ancestor, or a step‑parent,
               of the person;

          (c) a child or remoter issue, or a stepchild, of the person;
              or

          (d) a sibling or stepsibling of the person;

“share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the Companies
   Act 1967;

“treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“trustee-manager” has the meaning given by section 2 of the
   Business Trusts Act 2004;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
61  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    “unit” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business Trusts
       Act 2004;

    “unitholder” has the meaning given by section 2 of the Business
       Trusts Act 2004;

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) The Authority may, by notification in the Gazette, do one or
more of the following:

    (a) declare any telecommunication licensee to be a designated
         telecommunication licensee for the purposes of this Part;

    (b) declare any class of telecommunication licensees to be a
         class of designated telecommunication licensees for the
         purposes of this Part;

    (c) declare any business trust to be a designated business trust
        for the purposes of this Part, if the business trust is
        established wholly or partly in respect of a
        telecommunication system (or any part of it) operated by
        a telecommunication system licensee;

    (d) declare any trust to be a designated trust for the purposes of
         this Part, if the trust —

    (i) is prescribed, or belongs to a class of trusts
        prescribed, by any regulations made under
        section 97; and

    (ii) is established wholly or partly in respect of a
         telecommunication system (or any part of it)
         operated by a telecommunication system licensee;

    (e) vary or revoke any declaration of a designated
        telecommunication licensee, a designated business trust
        or a designated trust;

    (f) vary or revoke any declaration of a class of designated
        telecommunication licensees.

                                                                                                    [19/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               62

 (3) For the purposes of this Part, in relation to a designated
telecommunication licensee the whole or any portion of the share
capital of which consists of stock, an interest of a person in any such
stock is deemed to be an interest in an issued share in the designated
telecommunication licensee having the same nominal amount as the
amount of that stock and having attached to it the same rights as are
attached to that stock.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) For the purposes of this Part, a person, A, is an associate of
another person, B, if —

(a) A is a relative of B;

(b) A is a related corporation of B;

          (c) A is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
              an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
              accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
              B or, where B is a corporation, of the directors of B;

(d) B is a corporation whose directors are accustomed or under
     an obligation, whether formal or informal, to act in
     accordance with the directions, instructions or wishes of
     A or, where A is a corporation, of the directors of A;

          (e) A is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
              whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
              directions, instructions or wishes of B or, where B is a
              corporation, of the directors of B;

          (f) B is a person who is accustomed or under an obligation,
              whether formal or informal, to act in accordance with the
              directions, instructions or wishes of A or, where A is a
              corporation, of the directors of A;

(g) A is a corporation in which B, alone or together with other
     associates of B as described in paragraphs (b) to (f), is in a
     position to control at least 12% of the voting power in A;

(h) B is a corporation in which A, alone or together with other
     associates of A as described in paragraphs (b) to (f), is in a
     position to control at least 12% of the voting power in B;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
63  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (i) A is a person with whom B has an agreement or
        arrangement, whether oral or in writing and whether
        express or implied, to act together with respect to the
        acquisition, holding or disposal of shares, units or other
        equity interests in, or with respect to the exercise of their
        voting power in relation to, a designated
        telecommunication licensee, a designated business trust
        or a designated trust; or

      (j) A is related to B in such other manner as may be prescribed
           by any regulations made under section 97.

                                                                                                         [19/2011]

(5) For the purposes of this Part —

    (a) a person holds a voting share in a corporation if the person
         has any legal or equitable interest in that share, other than
         an interest that is to be disregarded under subsection (7);

    (b) a person holds a unit in a business trust if the person has
         any legal or equitable interest in that unit, other than an
         interest that is to be disregarded under subsection (10); and

       (c) a person holds an equity interest in a trust if the person has
            any legal or equitable interest in that equity interest, other
            than an interest that is to be disregarded under
            subsection (12).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (7), for the purposes
of this Part, a person is deemed to have an interest in a share, if —

    (a) the person has entered into a contract to purchase that
         share; or

    (b) the person, not being the registered holder of that share, is
         entitled (otherwise than by reason of the person having
         been appointed a proxy or representative to vote at a
         meeting of members of a corporation or of a class of its
         members) to exercise or control the exercise of a right
         attached to that share.

                                                                                                     [19/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               64

 (7) For the purposes of subsections (5)(a) and (6), the following are
disregarded:

(a) an interest in a share of a person who holds the share as
     bare trustee;

(b) an interest in a share of a person whose ordinary business
     includes the lending of money, if the person holds the
     interest only by way of security for the purposes of a
     transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business
     in connection with the lending of money;

          (c) an interest in a share of a person whose ordinary business
              includes the underwriting of securities, if the person holds
              the interest only as an underwriter or a sub‑underwriter to
              any offering of shares of a designated telecommunication
              licensee;

(d) an interest in a share held by a person —

          (i) in the person’s capacity as a liquidator, the Official
              Receiver, the Official Assignee or the Public Trustee;
              or

          (ii) by reason of the person holding such other office as
               may be prescribed for the purposes of section 7(9)(c)
               of the Companies Act 1967;

          (e) an interest of a corporation in its own shares purchased or
              otherwise acquired in accordance with sections 76B to 76G
              of the Companies Act 1967 (including treasury shares);

        (f) such interest in a share as may be prescribed for the
            purposes of section 7(9)(d) of the Companies Act 1967,
            being an interest of such person, or of a person belonging
            to such class of persons, as may be prescribed for the
            purposes of that provision.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (8) Section 7(7), (8) and (10) of the Companies Act 1967 apply in
determining whether a person has an interest in a share for the
purposes of subsections (5)(a) and (6).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
65  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (9) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (10), for the
purposes of this Part, a person is deemed to have an interest in a
unit, if —

    (a) the person has entered into a contract to purchase that unit;
         or

       (b) the person, not being the registered holder of that unit, is
            entitled (otherwise than by reason of the person having
            been appointed a proxy or representative to vote at a
            meeting of unitholders of a business trust or of a class of its
            unitholders) to exercise or control the exercise of a right
            attached to that unit.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (10) For the purposes of subsections (5)(b) and (9), the following
are disregarded:

    (a) an interest in a unit of a person who holds the unit as bare
         trustee;

    (b) an interest in a unit of a person whose ordinary business
         includes the lending of money, if the person holds the
         interest only by way of security for the purposes of a
         transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business
         in connection with the lending of money;

    (c) an interest in a unit of a person whose ordinary business
        includes the underwriting of securities, if the person holds
        the interest only as an underwriter or a sub‑underwriter to
        any offering of units of a designated business trust;

       (d) an interest in a unit held by a person in the person’s
            capacity as a liquidator, the Official Receiver, the Official
            Assignee or the Public Trustee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (11) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (12), for the
purposes of this Part, a person is deemed to have an equity interest in
a designated trust, if —

    (a) the person has entered into a contract to purchase that
         equity interest; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               66

       (b) the person, not being the holder of that equity interest, is
            entitled (otherwise than by reason of the person having
            been appointed a proxy or representative to vote at a
            meeting of holders of equity interests in the designated
            trust or of a class of its holders of equity interests) to
            exercise or control the exercise of a right attached to that
            equity interest.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (12) For the purposes of subsections (5)(c) and (11), the following
are disregarded:

(a) an equity interest of a person who holds the interest as bare
     trustee;

(b) an equity interest of a person whose ordinary business
     includes the lending of money, if the person holds the
     interest only by way of security for the purposes of a
     transaction entered into in the ordinary course of business
     in connection with the lending of money;

          (c) an equity interest of a person whose ordinary business
              includes the underwriting of securities, if the person holds
              the interest only as an underwriter or a sub‑underwriter to
              any offering of equity interests in a designated trust;

       (d) an equity interest held by a person in the person’s capacity
            as a liquidator, the Official Receiver, the Official Assignee
            or the Public Trustee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (13) For the purposes of this Part, a reference to control of a
percentage of the voting power in a designated telecommunication
licensee, designated business trust or designated trust is a reference to
control that is direct or indirect, including control that is exercisable
as a result of or by means of arrangements or practices, whether or not
having legal or equitable force and whether or not based on legal or
equitable rights, of that percentage of the total number of votes that
may be cast in a general meeting of the designated
telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
designated trust, as the case may be.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
67  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (14) For the purposes of subsection (13), there shall be disregarded
any control of any voting power in a designated telecommunication
licensee, designated business trust or designated trust that is
exercisable —

    (a) by a person, by virtue of holding an interest in a share of
         the designated telecommunication licensee, a unit of the
         designated business trust or an equity interest in the
         designated trust (as the case may be) as a bare trustee;

    (b) by a person whose ordinary business includes the lending
         of money, by virtue of holding an interest in a share of the
         designated telecommunication licensee, a unit of the
         designated business trust or an equity interest in the
         designated trust (as the case may be) only by way of
         security for the purposes of a transaction entered into in the
         ordinary course of business in connection with the lending
         of money;

    (c) by a person whose ordinary business includes the
        underwriting of securities, by virtue of holding an
        interest in a share of the designated telecommunication
        licensee, a unit of the designated business trust or an equity
        interest in the designated trust (as the case may be) only as
        an underwriter or a sub‑underwriter to any offering of
        shares of the designated telecommunication licensee, units
        of the designated business trust or equity interests in the
        designated trust, as the case may be; or

    (d) by a person, by virtue of holding an interest in a share of
         the designated telecommunication licensee, a unit of the
         designated business trust or an equity interest in the
         designated trust, as the case may be —

    (i) in the person’s capacity as a liquidator, the Official
        Receiver, the Official Assignee or the Public Trustee;
        or

    (ii) by reason of the person holding such other office as
         may be prescribed for the purposes of section 7(9)(c)
         of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                           [19/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               68

 (15) Where a corporation is limited both by shares and by guarantee
or does not have a share capital, this section has effect as if the
members of the corporation were shareholders in the corporation.

                                                                             [32A

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Control of equity interests and voting power in designated
telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
designated trust

 38.—(1) Subject to subsection (9), a designated telecommunication
licensee must give written notice to the Authority, within 7 days after
the designated telecommunication licensee first becomes aware of the
event, in the event that any person, whether by a series of transactions
over a period of time or otherwise —

       (a) holds 5% or more but less than 12% of the total number of
            voting shares in the designated telecommunication
            licensee; or

       (b) is in a position to control 5% or more but less than 12% of
            the voting power in the designated telecommunication
            licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) Subject to subsection (9), the trustee-manager of a designated
business trust must give written notice to the Authority, within 7 days
after the trustee‑manager first becomes aware of the event, in the
event that any person, whether by a series of transactions over a
period of time or otherwise —

       (a) holds 5% or more but less than 12% of the total number of
            units in the designated business trust; or

       (b) is in a position to control 5% or more but less than 12% of
            the voting power in the designated business trust.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) Subject to subsection (9), the trustee of a designated trust must
give written notice to the Authority, within 7 days after the trustee
first becomes aware of the event, in the event that any person,
whether by a series of transactions over a period of time or
otherwise —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
69  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (a) holds 5% or more but less than 12% of the equity interests
         in the designated trust; or

       (b) is in a position to control 5% or more but less than 12% of
            the voting power in the designated trust.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) Every person required to give a notice under subsection (1), (2)
or (3) must ensure that the notice —

    (a) is given in such form and manner as the Authority may
         determine; and

       (b) is supported by such information as the Authority may
            require.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Subject to subsection (10), a person must not, without obtaining
the prior written approval of the Authority to do so, become, whether
through a series of transactions over a period of time or otherwise, a
12% controller or a 30% controller of a designated
telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
designated trust.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) Subject to subsection (10), a person must not, without obtaining
the prior written approval of the Authority to do so, acquire any
business (of a designated telecommunication licensee, designated
business trust or designated trust) that is conducted pursuant to a
telecommunication licence granted under section 5, or any part of any
such business, as a going concern.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (7) Subject to subsection (10), a person must not, without obtaining
the prior written approval of the Authority to do so, obtain effective
control over a designated telecommunication licensee, designated
business trust or designated trust.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (8) An application for the written approval of the Authority under
subsection (5), (6) or (7) —

    (a) must be made in such form and manner as the Authority
         may determine; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               70

       (b) must be supported by such information as the Authority
            may require.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (9) A written notice need not be given to the Authority under
subsection (1), (2) or (3), if the event mentioned in the applicable
subsection occurs by virtue only of any transaction prescribed by the
Minister for the purposes of this subsection by order in the Gazette.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (10) Any person may, without obtaining the prior written approval
of the Authority to do so, do any thing mentioned in subsection (5),
(6) or (7), if the doing of that thing occurs by virtue only of any
transaction prescribed by the Minister for the purposes of this
subsection by order in the Gazette.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (11) A designated telecommunication licensee must give written
notice to the Authority, within 7 days after the designated
telecommunication licensee first becomes aware of the event, in
the event that any person, by virtue only of any transaction prescribed
by the Minister for the purposes of this subsection by order in the
Gazette —

(a) becomes, whether through a series of transactions over a
     period of time or otherwise, a 12% controller or a 30%
     controller of the designated telecommunication licensee;

(b) acquires any business of the designated telecommunication
     licensee that is conducted pursuant to a telecommunication
     licence granted under section 5, or any part of any such
     business, as a going concern; or

       (c) obtains effective control over the designated
            telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (12) The trustee-manager of a designated business trust must give
written notice to the Authority, within 7 days after the
trustee‑manager first becomes aware of the event, in the event that
any person, by virtue only of any transaction prescribed by the
Minister for the purposes of this subsection by order in the Gazette —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
71  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (a) becomes, whether through a series of transactions over a
         period of time or otherwise, a 12% controller or a 30%
         controller of the designated business trust;

    (b) acquires any business of the designated business trust that
         is conducted pursuant to a telecommunication licence
         granted under section 5, or any part of any such business,
         as a going concern; or

       (c) obtains effective control over the designated business trust.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (13) The trustee of a designated trust must give written notice to the
Authority, within 7 days after the trustee first becomes aware of the
event, in the event that any person, by virtue only of any transaction
prescribed by the Minister for the purposes of this subsection by order
in the Gazette —

    (a) becomes, whether through a series of transactions over a
         period of time or otherwise, a 12% controller or a 30%
         controller of the designated trust;

    (b) acquires any business of the designated trust that is
         conducted pursuant to a telecommunication licence
         granted under section 5, or any part of any such
         business, as a going concern; or

       (c) obtains effective control over the designated trust.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (14) Subject to subsection (15), any person who contravenes
subsection (2), (3), (12) or (13) shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (15) Subsection (14) does not apply to a telecommunication
licensee that is —

    (a) a trustee‑manager of a designated business trust; or

    (b) a trustee of a designated trust.

                                                                [32B

                                                              [30/2016]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               72

Power to issue code of practice relating to control of designated
telecommunication licensees, designated business trusts and
designated trusts

 39.—(1) Without limiting section 30, the Authority may issue a
code of practice under that section which specifies such matters as are
generally necessary for carrying out the purposes and provisions of
this Part and for the due administration thereof.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may specify in
the code of practice —

(a) the rules and procedures that each of the following must
     comply with:

          (i) a designated telecommunication licensee;

          (ii) a person who holds any voting shares, or controls any
               voting power, in a designated telecommunication
               licensee;

          (iii) a person who holds any units, or controls any voting
                power, in a designated business trust;

          (iv) a person who holds any equity interest, or controls
               any voting power, in a designated trust;

          (v) a person who acquires any business (of a designated
               telecommunication licensee, designated business
               trust or designated trust) that is conducted pursuant
               to a telecommunication licence granted under
               section 5, or any part of any such business, as a
               going concern;

          (vi) a person who obtains effective control over a
               designated telecommunication licensee, designated
               business trust or designated trust;

(b) the terms and conditions which the Authority may impose
     when granting any written approval under section 38(5),
     (6) or (7); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
73  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (c) the fees and charges payable to the Authority in respect of
        any application or request made to the Authority under the
        code of practice.
                                                                         [32C

                                                                                                     [19/2011]

Power to issue directions relating to control of designated
telecommunication licensees, designated business trusts and
designated trusts

 40.—(1) Without limiting section 31, the Authority may issue a
direction under subsection (2) if —

       (a) a person (called in this section the specified person) —

               (i) becomes a 12% controller or 30% controller of a
                   designated telecommunication licensee, designated
                   business trust or designated trust;

              (ii) acquires any business (of a designated
                   telecommunication licensee, designated business
                   trust or designated trust) that is conducted pursuant
                   to a telecommunication licence granted under
                   section 5, or any part of any such business, as a
                   going concern; or

             (iii) obtains effective control over a designated
                   telecommunication licensee, designated business
                   trust or designated trust; and

       (b) the Authority is satisfied that —

               (i) the specified person has thereby contravened
                   section 38(5), (6) or (7);

              (ii) any condition of approval imposed by the Authority
                   on the specified person when granting its written
                   approval under section 38(5), (6) or (7) has not been
                   complied with;

             (iii) the specified person has furnished false or
                   misleading information or documents in connection
                   with the person’s application for written approval
                   under section 38(5), (6) or (7);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               74

          (iv) the Authority would not have granted its written
               approval under section 38(5), (6) or (7) had it been
               aware, at the time the approval was granted, of any
               matter relevant to the specified person’s application
               for such approval; or

              (v) the applicable matter referred to in paragraph (a)(i),
                   (ii) or (iii) is likely to substantially lessen
                   competition or is against the public interest.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) The Authority may, in the circumstances specified in
subsection (1), issue such of the following directions as may be
applicable:

(a) direct the designated telecommunication licensee to do all
     or any of the following:

          (i) to restrict the exercise of all or any of the voting
              rights in respect of the shares which the specified
              person holds, or which the specified person and the
              specified person’s associates together hold, in the
              designated telecommunication licensee (called in
              this section the specified shares), or to restrict the
              exercise of the voting power which the specified
              person controls, or which the specified person and
              the specified person’s associates together control, in
              the designated telecommunication licensee, unless
              the Authority expressly permits such rights or power
              to be exercised;

          (ii) to restrict the issuance or offer of shares in the
               designated telecommunication licensee (whether by
               way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the
               specified shares, unless the Authority expressly
               permits such issue or offer;

          (iii) except in a liquidation of the designated
                telecommunication licensee, to restrict the payment
                of any amount (whether by way of dividends or
                otherwise) in respect of the specified shares, unless
                the Authority expressly authorises such payment

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
75  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    subject to such conditions as the Authority may
    specify;

    (b) direct the trustee-manager of the designated business trust
         to do all or any of the following:

    (i) to restrict the exercise of all or any of the voting
        rights in respect of the units which the specified
        person holds, or which the specified person and the
        specified person’s associates together hold, in the
        designated business trust (called in this section the
        specified units), or to restrict the exercise of the
        voting power which the specified person controls, or
        which the specified person and the specified person’s
        associates together control, in the designated
        business trust, unless the Authority expressly
        permits such rights or power to be exercised;

    (ii) to restrict the issuance or offer of units in the
         designated business trust (whether by way of rights,
         bonus or otherwise) in respect of the specified units,
         unless the Authority expressly permits such issue or
         offer;

    (iii) except in a winding up of the designated business
          trust, to restrict the payment of any amount (whether
          by way of profits, income or otherwise) in respect of
          the specified units, unless the Authority expressly
          authorises such payment subject to such conditions
          as the Authority may specify;

    (c) direct the trustee of the designated trust to do all or any of
        the following:

    (i) to restrict the exercise of all or any of the voting
        rights in respect of the equity interests which the
        specified person holds, or which the specified person
        and the specified person’s associates together hold,
        in the designated trust (called in this section the
        specified equity interests), or to restrict the exercise
        of the voting power which the specified person
        controls, or which the specified person and the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               76

          specified person’s associates together control, in the
          designated trust, unless the Authority expressly
          permits such rights or power to be exercised;

          (ii) to restrict the issuance or offer of equity interests in
               the designated trust (whether by way of rights, bonus
               or otherwise) in respect of the specified equity
               interests, unless the Authority expressly permits such
               issue or offer;

          (iii) except in a winding up of the designated trust, to
                restrict the payment of any amount (whether by way
                of profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the
                specified equity interests, unless the Authority
                expressly authorises such payment subject to such
                conditions as the Authority may specify;

(d) direct the specified person, or any associate of the specified
     person, to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the
     specified shares, specified units or specified equity
     interests (as the case may be) within such time as the
     Authority may determine and subject to such conditions as
     the Authority considers appropriate;

          (e) direct the specified person to transfer or dispose of all or
              any part of the business or part thereof that is conducted
              pursuant to a telecommunication licence granted under
              section 5, and that is acquired from the designated
              telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
              designated trust as a going concern, within such time as the
              Authority may determine and subject to such conditions as
              the Authority considers appropriate;

        (f) direct the specified person to relinquish effective control
            over the designated telecommunication licensee,
            designated business trust or designated trust, within such
            time as the Authority may determine and subject to such
            conditions as the Authority considers appropriate.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) Before issuing a direction to any person under subsection (2),
the Authority must, unless the Authority decides that it is not

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
77  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

practicable or desirable to do so, cause to be given to that person
written notice of the Authority’s intention to issue the direction,
specifying a date by which that person may make written
representations with regard to the proposed direction.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) Upon receipt of any written representations mentioned in
subsection (3), the Authority must consider them for the purpose of
determining whether to issue the direction.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Any person to whom a direction is given under subsection (2)
must comply with the direction.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke any
direction issued under this section.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (7) Any direction given to a person under subsection (2) has effect,
despite —

    (a) the Business Trusts Act 2004, the Companies Act 1967, the
         Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005, the Trustees Act
         1967 and the VCC Act;

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
         the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

      (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
           association, trust deed or other constitution of the
           designated telecommunication licensee, designated
           business trust or designated trust.

                                                                                                         [30/2016]

(8) Without affecting subsection (7) —

    (a) where any direction is issued under subsection (2)(a),
         unless the direction is suspended or revoked —

    (i) the voting rights in respect of the specified shares,
        and the voting power which the specified person
        controls, or which the specified person and the
        specified person’s associates together control, in the
        designated telecommunication licensee, are not

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               78

          exercisable unless the Authority expressly permits
          such rights or power to be exercised;

          (ii) no shares in the designated telecommunication
               licensee are to be issued or offered (whether by
               way of rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the
               specified shares, unless the Authority expressly
               permits such issue or offer; and

          (iii) except in a liquidation of the designated
                telecommunication licensee, no amount is to be
                paid (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
                respect of the specified shares, unless the Authority
                expressly authorises such payment;

(b) where any direction is issued under subsection (2)(b),
     unless the direction is suspended or revoked —

          (i) the voting rights in respect of the specified units, and
              the voting power which the specified person
              controls, or which the specified person and the
              specified person’s associates together control, in the
              designated business trust, are not exercisable unless
              the Authority expressly permits such rights or power
              to be exercised;

          (ii) no units in the designated business trust are to be
               issued or offered (whether by way of rights, bonus or
               otherwise) in respect of the specified units, unless the
               Authority expressly permits such issue or offer; and

          (iii) except in a winding up of the designated business
                trust, no amount is to be paid (whether by way of
                profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the
                specified units, unless the Authority expressly
                authorises such payment; or

          (c) where any direction is issued under subsection (2)(c),
              unless the direction is suspended or revoked —

          (i) the voting rights in respect of the specified equity
              interests, and the voting power which the specified
              person controls, or which the specified person and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
79  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    the specified person’s associates together control, in
    the designated trust, are not exercisable unless the
    Authority expressly permits such rights or power to
    be exercised;

    (ii) no equity interests in the designated trust are to be
         issued or offered (whether by way of rights, bonus or
         otherwise) in respect of the specified equity interests,
         unless the Authority expressly permits such issue or
         offer; and

             (iii) except in a winding up of the designated trust, no
                   amount is to be paid (whether by way of profits,
                   income or otherwise) in respect of the specified
                   equity interests, unless the Authority expressly
                   authorises such payment.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (9) Subject to subsection (10), any person who contravenes
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
         to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
         part of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (10) Subsection (9) does not apply to a telecommunication licensee
that is —

    (a) a designated telecommunication licensee mentioned in
         subsection (2)(a);

    (b) a trustee‑manager of the designated business trust
         mentioned in subsection (2)(b); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               80

          (c) a trustee of the designated trust mentioned in
              subsection (2)(c).
                                                                               [32D

                                                                                                          [30/2016]

Power to issue directions to enforce conditions imposed by
Authority when approving application under section 38(5), (6)
or (7)

 41.—(1) Without affecting section 31, the Authority may issue a
direction under subsection (2) if —

       (a) a person (called in this section the specified person) —

               (i) is a 12% controller or 30% controller of a designated
                   telecommunication licensee, designated business
                   trust or designated trust;

              (ii) owns any business (of a designated
                   telecommunication licensee, designated business
                   trust or designated trust) that is conducted under a
                   telecommunication licence granted under section 5,
                   or any part of any such business, as a going concern;
                   or

             (iii) has effective control over a designated
                   telecommunication licensee, designated business
                   trust or designated trust;

       (b) the Authority, in granting its written approval to the
            specified person under section 38(5), (6) or (7) in respect of
            any designated telecommunication licensee, designated
            business trust or designated trust, imposes a condition that
            the specified person must transfer or dispose of all or any
            part of —

               (i) the shares which the specified person holds, or which
                   the specified person and the specified person’s
                   associates together hold, in the designated
                   telecommunication licensee (called in this section
                   the specified shares);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
81                Telecommunications Act 1999                 2020 Ed.

    (ii) the units which the specified person holds, or which
         the specified person and the specified person’s
         associates together hold, in the designated business
         trust (called in this section the specified units); or

    (iii) the equity interests which the specified person holds,
          or which the specified person and the specified
          person’s associates together hold, in the designated
          trust (called in this section the specified equity
          interests); and

       (c) the Authority is satisfied that the condition has not been
            complied with.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (2) The Authority may, in the circumstances specified in
subsection (1), issue all or any of the following directions:

    (a) direct the specified person, or any associate of the specified
         person, to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the
         specified shares, specified units or specified equity
         interests (as the case may be) within such time and
         subject to such conditions as the Authority specifies;

    (b) direct the specified person to transfer or dispose of all or
         any part of the business that is conducted under a
         telecommunication licence granted under section 5, and
         that is acquired from the designated telecommunication
         licensee, designated business trust or designated trust as a
         going concern, within such time and subject to such
         conditions as the Authority specifies;

    (c) direct the specified person to relinquish effective control
        over the designated telecommunication licensee,
        designated business trust or designated trust, within such
        time and subject to such conditions as the Authority
        specifies;

    (d) direct —

    (i) the specified person, or any associate of the specified
        person, to procure the issue of such number of
        shares, units or equity interests in the designated

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               82

          telecommunication licensee, designated business
          trust or designated trust (as the case may be) as the
          Authority may determine, within such time and
          subject to such conditions as the Authority specifies;

          (ii) the designated telecommunication licensee, the
               trustee‑manager of the designated business trust, or
               the trustee of the designated trust, to procure the
               issue of such number of shares, units or equity
               interests in the designated telecommunication
               licensee, designated business trust or designated
               trust (as the case may be) as the Authority may
               determine, within such time and subject to such
               conditions as the Authority specifies; and

             (iii) the specified person, or any associate of the specified
                   person, to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the
                   specified shares, specified units or specified equity
                   interests, in the designated telecommunication
                   licensee, designated business trust or designated
                   trust (as the case may be) within such time and
                   subject to such conditions as the Authority specifies.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (3) Before issuing a direction to any person under subsection (2),
the Authority must, unless the Authority decides that it is not
practicable or desirable to do so, cause to be given to that person
written notice of the Authority’s intention to issue the direction,
specifying a date by which that person may make written
representations with regard to the proposed direction.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (4) Upon receipt of any written representation under subsection (3),
the Authority must consider the representation for the purpose of
determining whether to issue the direction.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (5) Any person to whom a direction is issued under subsection (2)
must comply with the direction.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
83  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (6) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke any
direction issued under this section.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (7) Any direction issued to a person under subsection (2) has effect,
despite —

    (a) the Business Trusts Act 2004, the Companies Act 1967, the
         Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005, the Trustees Act
         1967 and the VCC Act;

                                                                              [S 26/2022 wef 13/01/2022]

    (b) anything in any listing rules as defined in section 2(1) of
         the Securities and Futures Act 2001; and

       (c) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
            association, trust deed or other constitution of the
            specified person, designated telecommunication licensee,
            designated business trust or designated trust.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (8) Subject to subsection (9), any person that contravenes
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
         to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
         part of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (9) Subsection (8) does not apply to a telecommunication licensee
that is —

    (a) a designated telecommunication licensee mentioned in
         subsection (2)(d)(ii);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               84

(b) a trustee‑manager of the designated business trust
     mentioned in subsection (2)(d)(ii); or

          (c) a trustee of the designated trust mentioned in
              subsection (2)(d)(ii).
                                                                             [32DA

                                                                                                          [30/2016]

Power of Authority to obtain information relating to control of
designated telecommunication licensees, designated business
trusts and designated trusts

 42.—(1) Without affecting sections 31 and 78, the Authority may,
by written notice —

       (a) direct any designated telecommunication licensee to obtain
            from any shareholder of the designated telecommunication
            licensee, and to transmit to the Authority within such time
            as may be specified in the notice, the following
            information:

               (i) whether that shareholder holds any voting share in
                   the designated telecommunication licensee as a
                   trustee; and

              (ii) if so —

                    (A) the name of the person for whom that
                          shareholder holds the voting share as a
                          trustee, or such other particulars as are
                          sufficient to enable the identification of that
                          person; and

                     (B) the nature of that person’s interest;

       (b) direct the trustee-manager of any designated business trust
            to obtain from any unitholder of the designated business
            trust, and to transmit to the Authority within such time as
            may be specified in the notice, the following information:

               (i) whether that unitholder holds any unit in the
                   designated business trust as a trustee; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
85  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (ii) if so —

    (A) the name of the person for whom that
         unitholder holds the unit as a trustee, or such
         other particulars as are sufficient to enable the
         identification of that person; and

    (B) the nature of that person’s interest; and

    (c) direct the trustee of any designated trust to obtain from any
        holder of equity interests in the designated trust, and to
        transmit to the Authority within such time as may be
        specified in the notice, the following information:

    (i) whether that holder holds any equity interest in the
        designated trust as a trustee; and

    (ii) if so —

    (A) the name of the person for whom that holder
         holds the equity interest as a trustee, or such
         other particulars as are sufficient to enable the
         identification of that person; and

                   (B) the nature of that person’s interest.  [19/2011]
(2) The Authority may, by written notice —

    (a) direct any shareholder of a designated telecommunication
         licensee to provide to the Authority, within such time as
         may be specified in the notice, the following information:

    (i) whether that shareholder holds any voting share in
        the designated telecommunication licensee as a
        trustee; and

    (ii) if so —

    (A) the name of the person for whom that
         shareholder holds the voting share as a
         trustee, or such other particulars as are
         sufficient to enable the identification of that
         person; and

    (B) the nature of that person’s interest;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               86

(b) direct any unitholder of a designated business trust to
     provide to the Authority, within such time as may be
     specified in the notice, the following information:

          (i) whether that unitholder holds any unit in the
              designated business trust as a trustee; and

          (ii) if so —

          (A) the name of the person for whom that
               unitholder holds the unit as a trustee, or such
               other particulars as are sufficient to enable the
               identification of that person; and

          (B) the nature of that person’s interest; and

          (c) direct any holder of equity interests in a designated trust to
              provide to the Authority, within such time as may be
              specified in the notice, the following information:

          (i) whether that holder holds any equity interest in the
              designated trust as a trustee; and

          (ii) if so —

          (A) the name of the person for whom that holder
               holds the equity interest as a trustee, or such
               other particulars as are sufficient to enable the
               identification of that person; and

                   (B) the nature of that person’s interest.        [19/2011]
(3) Any person who —

(a) fails to comply with a notice under subsection (1) or (2); or

(b) in purported compliance with a notice under subsection (1)
     or (2), knowingly or recklessly makes a statement which is
     false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

          (c) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
              $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
              3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
              to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
87  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    part of a day during which the offence continues after
    conviction; or

    (d) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.
                                                                         [32E

                                                                                                     [19/2011]

Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of
designated telecommunication licensee

 43.—(1) A designated telecommunication licensee must not
appoint a person as its chief executive officer, its director or the
chairperson of its board of directors, unless it has obtained the
approval of the Authority to do so.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) The Authority may —

       (a) grant its approval, without or with conditions, such
            conditions limited to either or both of the following:

               (i) specifying the period of appointment for which the
                   approval is granted, including any requirement for
                   the designated telecommunication licensee to seek
                   approval for re‑appointment;

              (ii) specifying the actions to be taken by the designated
                   telecommunication licensee or the person appointed;
                   and

       (b) at any time add to, vary or revoke any condition of the
            approval under paragraph (a), subject to the limitation in
            that paragraph.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (3) Where a designated telecommunication licensee appoints a
person as its chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of
its board of directors without the approval of the Authority, in
contravention of subsection (1), or the designated telecommunication
licensee or the person appointed is in contravention of any of the
conditions imposed under subsection (2), the Authority may issue a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               88

direction to the licensee to remove that person from his or her
appointment as chief executive officer, director or chairperson of the
board of directors (as the case may be) of the licensee.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (4) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend or revoke any
direction issued under subsection (3).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law and the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
association, or other constitution, of the designated
telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) In this section —

“chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated
   telecommunication licensee —

          (a) means any person, by whatever name described,
               who —

          (i) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or
              by arrangement with, the designated
              telecommunication licensee; and

          (ii) is principally responsible for the management
               and conduct of any type of business of the
               designated telecommunication licensee in
               Singapore; and

          (b) includes any person for the time being performing all
               or any of the functions or duties of a chief executive
               officer;

“director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967.

                                                                      [32F

                                                                    [19/2011]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
89                  Telecommunications Act 1999               2020 Ed.

                             PART 5B

    SPECIAL ADMINISTRATION ORDER

Interpretation of this Part

44. In this Part —

    “critical support infrastructure” means any infrastructure that
       belongs to, or is under the control of, a telecommunication
       licensee, and that satisfies all of the following criteria:

    (a) the infrastructure is required by other
         telecommunication licensees to provide a
         telecommunication service;

    (b) the infrastructure cannot be replicated within the
         foreseeable future, or obtained from a third party, by
         an efficient new entrant to the market for
         telecommunication services in Singapore, in either
         case, at a cost that would reasonably allow market
         entry;

    (c) the failure or refusal by the firstmentioned
        telecommunication licensee to allow other
        telecommunication licensees to use the
        infrastructure would unreasonably restrict
        competition in any market for telecommunication
        services in Singapore;

    “prescribed transferee” means —

    (a) the Authority; or

    (b) a person nominated by the Authority;

    “specified telecommunication licensee” means a
       telecommunication licensee which the Minister has
       declared under section 45 to be a specified
       telecommunication licensee for the purposes of this Part.

                                                                [32G

                                                              [19/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               90

Declaration of specified telecommunication licensee

 45.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting with the Authority, by
notification in the Gazette, declare any telecommunication licensee to
be a specified telecommunication licensee for the purposes of this
Part, if —

(a) the licensee —

          (i) is a public telecommunication licensee; or

          (ii) owns or controls any critical support infrastructure;
               or

       (b) the Minister is satisfied that it is in the public interest to do
            so.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) A declaration of a specified telecommunication licensee under
subsection (1)(a)(i) remains in force only so long as the licensee
remains a public telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) A declaration of a specified telecommunication licensee under
subsection (1)(a)(ii) remains in force only so long as the licensee
continues to own or control any critical support infrastructure.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) The Minister may, after consulting with the Authority, by
notification in the Gazette, revoke any declaration under
subsection (1).

                                                                             [32H

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Meaning and effect of special administration order

 46.—(1) A special administration order is an order of the Minister,
made in accordance with section 47 in relation to a specified
telecommunication licensee, directing that during the period for
which the order is in force, the affairs, business and property of that
licensee must be managed by a person appointed by the Minister
(which may include the Authority) —

       (a) for securing one or more of the purposes of such an order
            set out in subsection (2); and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
91  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

      (b) in a manner which protects the respective interests of the
           shareholders and the creditors of the licensee.

                                                                                                         [19/2011]

(2) The purposes mentioned in subsection (1)(a) are —

    (a) the security and reliability of the supply of
         telecommunication services in Singapore;

    (b) the survival of the specified telecommunication licensee,
         or the whole or any part of its business or undertaking, as a
         going concern;

    (c) the transfer to another person, or (as respects different parts
        of its business or undertaking) to 2 or more different
        persons, as a going concern, of so much of the specified
        telecommunication licensee’s business or undertaking as it
        is necessary to transfer in order to ensure that the functions
        and duties which have been vested in the licensee by virtue
        of its licence may be properly carried out; and

       (d) the carrying out of the functions and duties vested in the
            specified telecommunication licensee, pending the making
            of the transfer and the vesting of those functions and duties
            in any other person or persons.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) The Minister may make regulations for giving effect to this Part,
including —

    (a) regulations governing the transfer of a specified
         telecommunication licensee’s business or undertaking
         mentioned in subsection (2)(c); and

    (b) where a special administration order is made, regulations
         for applying, omitting or modifying the provisions of Parts
         7 and 9 of the Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
         Act 2018.
                                                                          [32I

                                                                                         [19/2011; 40/2018]

                                                                         [Act 31 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               92

Power to make special administration order, etc.

 47.—(1) If, on an application made to the Minister by the Authority
in relation to any specified telecommunication licensee, the Minister
is satisfied that any one or more of the grounds specified in
subsection (2) are satisfied in relation to that licensee, the Minister
may make any one or more of the following orders:

(a) a special administration order in relation to that licensee;

(b) an order requiring the licensee immediately to take any
     action or to do or not to do any act or thing in relation to its
     business as the Minister may consider necessary;

      (c) an order appointing a person to advise that licensee in the
           proper conduct of its business.

                                                                                                         [19/2011]

(2) The grounds mentioned in subsection (1) are that —

(a) there has been, is or is likely to be a contravention by the
     specified telecommunication licensee of the conditions of
     its licence or of this Act which is serious enough to make it
     inappropriate for the licensee to continue to hold the
     licence;

(b) the specified telecommunication licensee is or is likely to
     be unable to pay its debts;

          (c) the Minister considers it in the interest of the security and
              reliability of the supply of telecommunication services in
              Singapore; and

       (d) the Minister considers it to be in the public interest.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) The Minister may make a special administration order in
relation to a specified telecommunication licensee despite the
commencement of —

(a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
     section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
     Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
     relation to the specified telecommunication licensee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
93  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
         management order under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to the specified
         telecommunication licensee;

    (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
        Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
        relation to the specified telecommunication licensee; or

       (d) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
            affairs of the specified telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                    [19/2011; 15/2017; 40/2018]

 (4) Notice of any application under subsection (1) must be given
immediately by the Authority to such persons and in such manner as
may be determined by the Authority.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (1) is final.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) For the purposes of this section, a specified telecommunication
licensee, being a company, is unable to pay its debts if it is deemed to
be unable to pay its debts under section 125(2) of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                                                [19/2011; 40/2018]

 (7) The Minister may at any time (whether or not the appointment
of the person has terminated) fix the remuneration and expenses to be
paid by a specified telecommunication licensee to any person
appointed by the Minister under subsection (1)(c) to advise the
licensee in the proper conduct of its business.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (8) Where the Minister issues an order to a specified
telecommunication licensee under subsection (1) and the licensee
fails to comply with that order, the licensee shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                              [32J

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               94

Transfer of property, etc., under special administration order

 48.—(1) Without limiting sections 46 and 47, a special
administration order may provide for the following matters:

(a) the transfer of the property, rights and liabilities of a
     specified telecommunication licensee to one or more
     prescribed transferees;

       (b) matters that are consequential or related to any such
            transfer.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) If the Minister makes a special administration order providing
for any matter mentioned in subsection (1), the Minister must, within
6 months after the making of the order, by notification in the Gazette,
establish a scheme for determining the amount of any compensation
payable to the specified telecommunication licensee for the transfer
of its property, rights and liabilities.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) A scheme established under subsection (2) may provide for —

(a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
     to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
     dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
     when making valuations;

(b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
     appointed by the Minister; and

          (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.
                                                                               [32K

                                                                                                           [19/2011]

Restrictions on voluntary winding up, etc.

 49.—(1) Despite any other written law —

       (a) a specified telecommunication licensee must not be wound
            up voluntarily without the consent of the Authority;

       (b) a person must not make any application under section 210
            of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the Insolvency,
            Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a
            specified telecommunication licensee, unless that person

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
95  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

    has served 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
    intention to make that application on the Authority;

    (c) a person must not make any application for a judicial
        management order under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
        Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a specified
        telecommunication licensee, unless that person has
        served 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
        intention to make that application on the Authority;

    (d) a specified telecommunication licensee must not appoint
         an interim judicial manager under section 94(3) of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018,
         unless that licensee has served 14 days’ notice in writing
         of that licensee’s intention to make the appointment on the
         Authority;

    (e) a person must not take any step to enforce any security over
        a specified telecommunication licensee’s property, unless
        that person has served 14 days’ notice in writing of the
        person’s intention to take that step on the Authority; and

      (f) a person must not take any step to enforce any judgment or
           order of court obtained against a specified
           telecommunication licensee, unless that person has
           served 14 days’ notice in writing of the person’s
           intention to take that step on the Authority.

                                                                                  [19/2011; 15/2017; 40/2018]

                                                                             [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(2) The Authority is a party to —

    (a) any proceedings relating to the making of an order under
         section 210 of the Companies Act 1967 or section 71 of the
         Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
         relation to a specified telecommunication licensee;

    (b) any proceedings relating to the making of a judicial
         management order under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
         Dissolution Act 2018 in relation to a specified
         telecommunication licensee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               96

          (c) any meeting convened under section 94(7) of the
              Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018 in
              relation to a specified telecommunication licensee; and

       (d) any proceedings under the Insolvency, Restructuring and
            Dissolution Act 2018 relating to the winding up of the
            affairs of a specified telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                    [19/2011; 15/2017; 40/2018]

 (3) A court must, when deciding any proceedings mentioned in
subsection (2), take into consideration any representations made by
the Authority in those proceedings.

                                                                             [32L

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

                                   PART 5C

        ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION SCHEME

Interpretation of this Part

 50. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “declared telecommunication licensee” means a
         telecommunication licensee —

              (a) that is declared by the Authority to be a
                   telecommunication licensee subject to this Part; or

              (b) that is within a class of telecommunication licensees
                   declared by the Authority to be a class of
                   telecommunication licensees subject to this Part,

         and the declaration must be notified in the Gazette;

      “dispute resolution scheme” means a dispute resolution scheme
         established or approved by the Authority under section 51(1);

      “subscriber” means an end user that subscribes to a
         telecommunication service from a telecommunication
         licensee.

                                                                            [32M

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
97  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

Power of Authority in relation to dispute resolution scheme

 51.—(1) The Authority may establish or approve one or more
dispute resolution schemes for the resolution of disputes between
subscribers and declared telecommunication licensees, arising from
or relating to the provision of telecommunication services by the
declared telecommunication licensees to the subscribers.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (2) Every declared telecommunication licensee must participate in
a dispute resolution scheme and must comply with such terms and
conditions of participation in the scheme as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (3) To avoid doubt, this Part does not affect the operation of the
Consumer Protection (Fair Trading) Act 2003.

                                                                             [32N

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

Operator of dispute resolution scheme

 52. The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations under section 97 to provide for matters relating to the
operations of an operator of a dispute resolution scheme, including —

       (a) the standards or requirements of the services provided
            under the dispute resolution scheme;

       (b) the fees that the operator may charge for the services
            provided under the dispute resolution scheme;

       (c) the records that the operator must keep and the period of
            retention of such records;

       (d) the reports that the operator must submit to the Authority,
            and the manner and time for such submission;

       (e) matters relating to the administration of the dispute
            resolution scheme; and

        (f) generally to give effect to or for carrying out the purposes
            of this Part.
                                                                             [32O

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               98

          PART 6

          OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

Unlawful operation of telecommunication system or service

 53.—(1) Subject to this section and section 4, any person who
establishes, installs, maintains, provides or operates a
telecommunication system or service within Singapore without a
licence granted under section 5, or during the suspension of the
person’s licence under section 10 or otherwise infringes the privilege
conferred upon the Authority by section 3 shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [30/2016]

 (2) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in the case of a
continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $10,000 for every
day or part of a day during which the offence continues after
conviction.

 (3) In the case of an offence in relation to a telecommunication
system or service not extending beyond Singapore, the person or
every person operating the system or service (or, if different people
run different parts of the system or service, each of them) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be similarly liable.

 (4) In the case of an offence in relation to a telecommunication
system or service extending beyond Singapore, the person or every
person operating that portion of such system or service within
Singapore (or, if different people operate different parts of the system
or service, each of them) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
similarly liable.

 (5) Where the commission by any person of an offence under this
section is due to the act or default of some other person, that other
person shall be guilty of the offence; and a person may be charged
with and convicted of the offence by virtue of this subsection whether
or not proceedings are taken against the firstmentioned person.

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under this section, it is,
subject to subsection (7), a defence for the person charged to prove

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
99  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

that the person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due
diligence to avoid committing the offence.

 (7) Where the defence provided by subsection (6) involves an
allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person, the person charged is not, without
permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless,
within a period ending 7 clear days before the hearing, the person
charged has served on the prosecutor a written notice giving such
information identifying or assisting in the identification of that other
person as was then in the possession of the person charged.

                                                                               [33

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Prohibitions in respect of telecommunication and
radio‑communication equipment

 54.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) offer for sale, sell or possess for sale any
            telecommunication equipment; or

       (b) possess any radio-communication equipment,

except and in accordance with a licence granted under section 5 or
any regulations made under this Act.

 (2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [34

Penalty for unlicensed station

 55.—(1) Any person who establishes, installs, maintains, provides
or operates a radio‑communication system or service or any
radio‑communication equipment in any place or on board any
vessel, aircraft or in any vehicle in Singapore without a licence
granted under section 5 or any regulations made under this Act shall
be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who is in possession of any radio‑communication
equipment is deemed, until the contrary is proved, to have operated
the same.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               100

 (3) The occupier of any dwelling house or premises in which is
installed any radio‑communication equipment in respect of which a
licence is not in force shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) It is a defence in any proceedings for an offence under
subsection (3) that the occupier was not aware and could not with
reasonable diligence have become aware of the existence in the
dwelling-house or premises of the radio‑communication equipment.

                                                                               [35

Exemption from sections 53, 54 and 55

 56. Subject to such conditions as the Authority may impose,
sections 53, 54 and 55 do not apply to any person who has been issued
with a licence for the installation or working of any
telecommunication equipment under the provisions of any written
law in force in any country which is a party to a treaty or any other
arrangement to which Singapore is a party pursuant to which licences
issued under the written laws in force in each country for the
installation or working of any telecommunication equipment are
recognised as having force in the other country.

                                                                               [36

Powers of search and seizure

 57.—(1) Any police officer not below the rank of sergeant or any
employee authorised by the Authority may, if he or she has
reasonable grounds for believing that a telecommunication system
or service has been established, installed, maintained, operated or
provided in contravention of this Act or any regulations made under
this Act or in breach of any licence granted by the Authority or that
any telecommunication equipment used is of a type that is not
approved by the Authority under section 11 or that the
telecommunication equipment is imported in contravention of any
of the provisions of this Act or any regulations made under this Act —

       (a) in the case of any telecommunication equipment or any
            telecommunication system or service, other than any
            radio‑communication system or service, enter and
            inspect any place in which the telecommunication
            equipment is located or the telecommunication system or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
101  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     service is established, installed, maintained, operated or
     provided, and may seize any telecommunication system or
     equipment found therein which appears to be used for or in
     connection with telecommunications; and

     (b) in the case of any radio‑communication system or service,
          enter any place in Singapore or stop or board any vessel,
          aircraft or vehicle and inspect any place therein and may
          seize any radio‑communication system or equipment
          found therein which appears to be used or is capable of
          being used for or in connection with
          radio‑communications.

 (2) Where any police officer not below the rank of sergeant or any
employee authorised by the Authority has reasonable grounds for
believing that an offence has been or is being committed under
section 53, 54, 55, 59 or 64, he or she may seize any
telecommunication system or equipment or any
radio‑communication system or equipment, or any other thing used
in the commission of the offence.

 (3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any equipment or
system seized under this section, the equipment or system is to be
taken and deemed to be forfeited to the Authority unless a claim is
made within 2 months after the date of seizure.

 (4) Any person asserting that the person is the owner of the
equipment or system may personally or by the person’s authorised
agent give written notice to the Authority that the person claims the
same.

 (5) On receipt of the notice, the Authority may direct that the
equipment or system be released or may refer the matter to a
Magistrate’s Court or a District Court.

 (6) The Magistrate’s Court or the District Court may proceed to the
examination of the matter and upon examination shall order that the
equipment or system be forfeited or released.

                                                                               [37

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               102

Sealing of telecommunication system or equipment, etc.

 58.—(1) Where it appears to any police officer not below the rank
of sergeant or any employee authorised by the Authority that it is not
practicable to remove from where it is found any telecommunication
system or equipment or any radio‑communication system or
equipment seized by him or her under section 57 by reason of its
nature, size or amount, he or she may by any means seal the
telecommunication system or equipment or the radio‑communication
system or equipment.

 (2) Any person who, without lawful authority, breaks, tampers with
or damages any seal referred to in subsection (1), or removes any
telecommunication system or equipment or any
radio‑communication system or equipment which has been sealed
under that subsection, or attempts to do so, shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                               [38

Using unlawful telecommunication system or service

 59. Any person who knowing or having reason to believe that a
telecommunication system or service has been established, installed,
maintained, operated or provided in contravention of this Act,
whether or not such system or service is connected to or provided
through a public telecommunication licensee’s installation or plant,
uses the system or service for communication or for performing any
service incidental thereto or delivers any message for transmission by
the system or service or accepts delivery of any message sent shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [39

Obstruction of public telecommunication licensees

 60.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) while in any premises used for the purposes of the business
            of a public telecommunication licensee, intentionally
            obstructs the course of business of the licensee
            concerned; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
103  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     (b) assaults or intentionally obstructs or incites anyone to
          obstruct or impede an officer or employee of a public
          telecommunication licensee in the performance of his or
          her duties,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A public telecommunication licensee may require any person
guilty of an offence under subsection (1) to leave the premises used
for the purposes of its business and, if any such offender who is so
required refuses or fails to comply with the requirement, he or she
may be removed by an employee of the licensee.

                                                                               [40

Intentional damage to installation or plant used for
telecommunications

 61. Any person who intending —

       (a) to prevent or obstruct the transmission or delivery of any
            message;

       (b) to intercept or to acquaint himself or herself with the
            contents of any message; or

       (c) to commit mischief,

damages, removes, tampers with or touches any installation or plant
(or any part of it) used for telecommunications belonging to a public
telecommunication licensee or interferes with the
radio‑communication service or system of a public
telecommunication licensee shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [41

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Offences by officer, employee or agent of public
telecommunication licensees

 62.—(1) Any officer, employee or agent of a public
telecommunication licensee who —

       (a) wilfully divulges, makes away with or alters any message
            or record of any message; or

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               104

(b) except in obedience to an order under the hand of the
     Minister or the direction of a court, wilfully omits to
     transmit or intercepts or acquaints himself or herself with
     or detains any message (or part of it) or deliberately causes
     a call or connection to be disconnected or not to be
     connected,

shall be guilty of an offence.                                      [10/2005]
 (2) Subsection (1)(b) does not apply to —

(a) any act or thing done by an officer, employee or agent of a
     public telecommunication licensee for or in connection
     with the installation of a telecommunication line,
     equipment or the operation or maintenance of a
     telecommunication system; or

(b) the tracing of the origin of any telephone call at the request
     of the subscriber of a telecommunication service.
                                                                       [42

Fraudulent use of telecommunication service

 63. Any person who dishonestly uses or permits another person to
use any telecommunication service provided by a telecommunication
licensee with intent to avoid payment of any charge applicable to the
provision of that service shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [43

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Possession or supply of any thing for fraudulent purpose in
connection with use of telecommunication service

 64.—(1) Subsection (2) applies if a person has in the custody or
under the control of the person any thing which may be used for the
purpose of obtaining, or for a purpose connected with the obtaining
of, a service to which section 63 applies.

 (2) If the person intends —

       (a) to use the thing mentioned in subsection (1) —

               (i) to obtain such a service dishonestly; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
105  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     (ii) for a purpose connected with the dishonest obtaining
          of such a service;

     (b) dishonestly to allow the thing to be used to obtain such a
          service; or

     (c) to allow the thing to be used for a purpose connected with
         the dishonest obtaining of such a service,

the person shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Subsection (4) applies if a person supplies or offers to supply
any thing which may be used for the purpose of obtaining, or for a
purpose connected with the obtaining of, a service to which
section 63 applies.

 (4) If the person (called in this subsection the supplier) supplying or
offering to supply the thing mentioned in subsection (3) knows or
believes that the person to whom it is supplied or offered intends or
intends if it is supplied to the person —

     (a) to use the thing —

     (i) to obtain such a service dishonestly; or

     (ii) for a purpose connected with the dishonest obtaining
          of such a service;

     (b) dishonestly to allow the thing to be used for a purpose
          connected with the dishonest obtaining of such a service;
          or

     (c) to allow the thing to be used for a purpose connected with
         the dishonest obtaining of such a service,

the supplier shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) A person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 10 years or to both.

                                                                               [44

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               106

Fraudulent retention of messages

65. Any person who —

(a) fraudulently retains or wilfully divulges, makes away with
     or detains a message or record of a message which ought to
     have been delivered to some other person; or

(b) being required by a public telecommunication licensee to
     deliver up any such message or record of such message
     neglects or refuses to do so,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                        [46

                                                                    [10/2005]

Protection of installation or plant used for telecommunications

 66.—(1) A person must not, without the written approval of the
Authority —

       (a) lay or carry any mains, pipes, conduits, circuits or wires in,
            along, through, across, over or under any street or place in
            a manner which is likely to interfere with or cause damage
            to any installation or plant used for telecommunications; or

       (b) affix any placard, advertisement, notice or other thing in or
            on, or paint, tar or in any way disfigure any installation or
            plant used for telecommunications.

 (2) Any approval under subsection (1) may be refused by the
Authority or granted by the Authority on such terms and conditions as
it may determine.

 (3) Where the commission by any person of an offence under
subsection (1) is due to the act or default of some other person, that
other person shall be guilty of the offence; and a person may be
charged with and convicted of the offence by virtue of this subsection
whether or not proceedings are taken against the firstmentioned
person.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is,
subject to subsection (5), a defence for the person charged to prove
that the person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due
diligence to avoid committing the offence.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
107  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (5) Where the defence provided by subsection (4) involves an
allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person, the person charged is not, without
permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless,
within a period ending 7 clear days before the hearing, the person
charged has served on the prosecutor a written notice giving such
information identifying or assisting in the identification of that other
person as was then in the possession of the person charged.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (6) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, in addition to
the forfeiture of any equipment seized, be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                               [47

Prohibition of false notice relating to public telecommunication
licensees’ installation or plant

 67. Any person who, without the permission of a public
telecommunication licensee, places or maintains in or on any house
or place, belonging to or under the control of the person, any word,
letter or mark which signifies or implies or may reasonably lead the
public to believe that the house or place is part of a public
telecommunication licensee’s installation or plant shall be guilty of
an offence.

                                                                               [48

Damage to telecommunication system licensees’ installation or
plant

 68.—(1) Any person who wilfully removes, destroys or damages
any installation or plant used for telecommunications shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), any person who, in the course of
carrying out any earthworks, damages or suffers to be damaged any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               108

cable of a telecommunication system belonging to or under the
management or control of a telecommunication system licensee shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1 million or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 years or to both.

 (3) Where an offence under subsection (2) is committed by any
person (called in this subsection the firstmentioned person) acting as
the agent or employee of another person (called in this subsection the
principal person), or being otherwise subject to the supervision or
instructions of another person (also called in this subsection the
principal person) for the purposes of any employment in the course of
which the offence was committed, the principal person shall, without
prejudice to the liability of the firstmentioned person, be liable under
that subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as if the
principal person had personally committed the offence unless the
principal person proves to the satisfaction of the court that the offence
was committed without the principal person’s consent or connivance
or that it was not attributable to any neglect on the principal person’s
part.

 (4) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2), it is a
defence for the person charged to prove that the person took all
reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid the
commission of the offence.

 (5) If in any proceedings for an offence under subsection (2) the
defence involves acting on information supplied by a
telecommunication system licensee or a licensed
telecommunication cable detection worker, the person charged is
not, without permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence
unless, within a period of 14 clear days before the hearing, the person
has served on the prosecutor a written notice giving such information
as was then in the person’s possession identifying or assisting in the
identification of the telecommunication system licensee or
telecommunication cable detection worker.

                                                                               [49

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
109  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

Compensation for damage caused to public telecommunication
licensees’ installation or plant

 69.—(1) Any person who removes, destroys or damages, whether
wilfully, negligently, accidentally or otherwise, the installation or
plant used for telecommunications is, in addition to any penalty for
which the person is liable for an offence under this Act, liable to pay
compensation for the damage the person has done and the
compensation is recoverable by civil action or suit before any court
of competent jurisdiction.

 (2) Subject to subsection (1), any court before which a person is
charged with an offence under this Act may assess the compensation
payable under this section and may make an order for the payment of
the same.

 (3) Any order under subsection (2) may be enforced as if it were a
judgment in a civil action or suit.

                                                                               [50

Penalty for removing any mark denoting used device for
telephony purposes

 70.—(1) Any person who, with fraudulent intent, erases or removes
from any device, any mark put or impressed upon the device denoting
that the same has been used, or sells or uses any such device shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) In this section, “device” means any device provided for use by a
public telecommunication licensee for accessing any
telecommunication equipment of the licensee to enable the
telecommunication service of the licensee to be used.

                                                                               [51

Failure to disconnect equipment not approved under section 11

 71. Where —

       (a) any person has under the person’s control a
            telecommunication system or equipment connected to
            the telecommunication system or equipment of a

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               110

          telecommunication system licensee which is of a type not
          approved by the Authority under section 11;

(b) the Authority has given to the person a written notice
     stating that —

          (i) the telecommunication system or equipment under
              the person’s control is of a type that has not been
              approved by the Authority under section 11; and

          (ii) the person must disconnect the telecommunication
               system or equipment from the telecommunication
               system or equipment of the telecommunication
               system licensee within such period as specified in
               the notice; and

          (c) the person has failed to comply with any written notice
              under paragraph (b),

then the person shall be guilty of an offence.
                                                                               [52

                                    PART 7

               INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS AND
                         NATIONAL INTERESTS

Right to conduct international business dealings

 72. For the purposes of the conduct of any international
telecommunication service by a public telecommunication licensee,
and subject to this Act, the licensee may enter into direct
communication, arrangement and agreement with the lawfully
constituted telecommunication authority of any country or with any
duly authorised international agency or organisation concerned with
telecommunication matters —

       (a) for the purpose of providing facilities, fixing rates,
            arranging terms of payment or accounting;

       (b) for operational, engineering or administrative purposes; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
111  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     (c) for any other purpose necessary for the proper fulfilment of
         its functions.
                                                                            [53

Government’s overriding international rights

 73.—(1) Nothing in section 72 is deemed to abrogate the right of
the Government at any time to determine its relations with any
country or with any international agency or organisation.

 (2) A public telecommunication licensee must so discharge its
responsibilities and conduct its business as to comply with and fulfil
all international agreements, conventions or undertakings relating to
telecommunication to which Singapore is a party.

                                                                               [54

Liability for international financial obligations

 74. A public telecommunication licensee is fully responsible for
meeting all financial obligations arising from the operation of any
international telecommunication service and must settle accounts
with other telecommunication authorities.

                                                                               [55

Contribution by Government

 75. Where the Government considers it necessary that any
telecommunication service of an exceptional nature should be
provided, and where a public telecommunication licensee considers
it uneconomic to provide the service without contribution from the
Government, the Government may make such contribution towards
the capital outlay necessary to provide any such service as may be
estimated by the licensee and agreed to by the Government.

                                                                               [56

Provision to Government of telecommunication services, etc.

 76.—(1) The Minister may direct a public telecommunication
licensee to undertake and provide such telecommunication services
and facilities as may be necessary for aeronautical, maritime,
meteorological, governmental, defence or other purposes.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               112

 (2) Upon being so directed by the Minister, the public
telecommunication licensee must provide the telecommunication
services or facilities mentioned in subsection (1), and is entitled to
fair and proper payment for that.

                                                                               [57

Directions by Minister

 77.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Authority or
any telecommunication licensee, give to the Authority or licensee (as
the case may be) such directions as the Minister thinks fit as to the
exercise by the Authority or that licensee of its functions under this
Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), if it appears to the Minister to
be requisite or expedient to do so —

       (a) on the occurrence of any public emergency, in the public
            interest or in the interests of public security, national
            defence, or relations with the government of another
            country; or

       (b) in order —

               (i) to discharge or facilitate the discharge of an
                   obligation binding on the Government by virtue of
                   its being a member of an international organisation
                   or a party to an international agreement;

              (ii) to attain or facilitate the attainment of any other
                   object the attainment of which is in the opinion of the
                   Minister requisite or expedient in view of the
                   Government being a member of an international
                   organisation or a party to an international agreement;
                   or

             (iii) to enable the Government to become a member of an
                   international organisation or a party to an
                   international agreement,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
113  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

the Minister may, after consultation with the Authority or any
telecommunication licensee, give such directions to the Authority or
that licensee as are necessary in the circumstances of the case.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (3) Any direction given under subsection (1) or (2) may include —

     (a) provisions for the prohibition or regulation of such use of
          telecommunications in all cases or of such cases as may be
          considered necessary;

     (b) provisions for the taking of, the control of or the usage for
          official purposes of, all or any such telecommunication
          system and equipment; and

     (c) provisions for the stopping, delaying and censoring of
         messages and the carrying out of any other purposes which
         the Minister thinks necessary.

 (4) Any direction given under subsection (3) does not apply to the
use of any telecommunications for the purpose of making or
answering signals of distress.

 (5) The Authority and any telecommunication licensee (as the case
may be) must give effect to any direction given to it under
subsection (1) or (2) despite any other duty imposed on the
Authority or the licensee by or under this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (6) Any telecommunication licensee who contravenes
subsection (5) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction —

     (a) to a fine not exceeding the higher of the following
          amounts:

     (i) 10% of the annual turnover of that part of its business
         in respect of which it is granted the licence, as
         ascertained from its latest audited accounts; or

     (ii) $1 million; and

     (b) in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
          exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
          which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                      [19/2011]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               114

 (7) The Authority and any telecommunication licensee must not
disclose any direction given to it under subsection (1) or (2) if the
Minister notifies the Authority or telecommunication licensee (as the
case may be) that the Minister is of the opinion that the disclosure of
the directions is against the public interest.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (8) The Minister may —

(a) pay compensation for any damage caused to a
     telecommunication licensee by reason of its compliance
     with the directions of the Minister under subsection (3)(b);
     or

       (b) make grants to telecommunication licensees for defraying
            or contributing towards any losses which they may sustain
            by reason of their compliance with the directions of the
            Minister under any other provision of this section.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (9) Any sums required by the Minister for paying compensation or
making grants under subsection (8) must be paid out of the
Consolidated Fund.

 (10) If any doubt arises as to the existence of a public emergency or
as to whether any act done under this section was in the public interest
or in the interests of public security, national defence or relations with
the government of another country, a certificate signed by the
Minister is conclusive evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.

 (11) This section does not authorise the Minister to give any
directions when an activation order (within the meaning of the Public
Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018) is in force, and for any
of the purposes for which a direction under section 32 of that Act is or
may be given.

                                                                               [58

                                                                                                           [26/2018]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
115  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     PART 8

     ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND PROCEDURES

Power to require information, etc.

 78.—(1) The Authority or any officer authorised by the Authority
in that behalf (called in this section the authorised officer) may, for
the purposes of conducting an investigation or for discharging the
Authority’s functions under this Act, by order require any person to
produce to the Authority any document, or to provide the Authority
with any information, which the Authority considers to be related to
any matter relevant to the investigation or for discharging its
functions under this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) The Authority or the authorised officer is entitled without
payment to keep any copy or extract of any document furnished to the
Authority or the authorised officer under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (3) The Authority or the authorised officer has, at all reasonable
times in the day, full and free access to all buildings, places, books,
documents and other papers for the purpose of conducting an
investigation or discharging functions of the Authority under this Act,
and may, without payment, inspect, copy or make extracts from any
such books, documents or papers.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (4) The Authority may take possession of any equipment, books,
documents or papers where in its opinion —

     (a) the equipment, books, documents or papers may be
          interfered with or destroyed unless possession is taken; or

     (b) the equipment, books, documents or papers may be
          required as evidence in proceedings for an offence under
          this Act or any regulations made under this Act.

 (5) The rights conferred by this section include, in relation to
information recorded otherwise than in legible form, the right to
require the information to be made available in legible form for
inspection or for a copy or extract to be made of or from it.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               116

 (6) The power under this section to require a person to produce a
document includes the power —

(a) if the document is produced, to require such person, or any
     person who is a present or past officer of the person or is or
     was at any time employed by the person, to provide an
     explanation of the document; or

      (b) if the document is not produced, to require such person to
           state, to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief,
           where it is.

                                                                                                         [10/2005]

(7) Any person who —

(a) fails to comply with any requirement specified in any order
     under subsection (1);

(b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
     or information which the person has been required by any
     order under subsection (1) to produce or provide; or

          (c) in furnishing any information required of the person under
              any order under subsection (1), makes any statement which
              the person knows to be false in a material particular, or
              recklessly makes any statement which is false in a material
              particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                    [10/2005]

 (8) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (7) in
respect of a requirement to produce any document or provide any
information under subsection (1), it is a defence for the person to
prove that —

(a) the document was not in the possession or under the
     control of the person;

(b) it was not reasonably practicable for the person to comply
     with the requirement; or

          (c) the person had a reasonable excuse for failing to provide
              the information required.

                                                                                                          [10/2005]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
117  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

 (9) A person is not obliged under this section to disclose any
particulars as to which the person is under any statutory obligation to
observe secrecy.

(10) In this section and sections 81 and 83 —

     “document” includes any electronic record;

     “electronic record” has the meaning given by the Electronic
        Transactions Act 2010.

                                                                   [59

                                                               [10/2005]

Power to examine, etc.

 79.—(1) An officer of the Authority who is authorised by the
Authority for the purpose of this section (called in this section the
authorised officer) may, for the purposes of investigating an offence
under this Act, do all or any of the following:

       (a) require any person whom the authorised officer reasonably
            believes to have committed that offence to furnish
            evidence of that person’s identity;

       (b) require, by written notice, any person within the limits of
            Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
            circumstances of the matter to attend before the authorised
            officer;

       (c) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
            with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

               (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
                   charged with an offence in connection with the
                   matter; or

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (2) A person examined under subsection (1)(c) is bound to state
truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               118

matter, except that the person need not say anything that might expose
the person to a criminal charge or punishment.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (3) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(c)
must —

(a) be reduced to writing;

(b) be read over to the person;

          (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
              a language that the person understands; and

      (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                         [22/2016]

(4) Any person who —

(a) without reasonable excuse, fails to furnish the information
     required of that person under subsection (1)(a);

(b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a notice
     issued to that person under subsection (1)(b); or

          (c) furnishes any information or makes any statement under
              this section which the person knows to be false or
              misleading in any material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                      [59A

                                                                    [22/2016]

Powers of arrest and search in respect of seizable offences

 80.—(1) The Chief Executive or any employee of the Authority
deputed by the Chief Executive to act under this section or any police
officer may arrest without warrant —

       (a) any person found committing or attempting to commit or
            employing or aiding any person to commit a seizable
            offence under this Act; or

       (b) any person against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that
            the person has been guilty of a seizable offence under this
            Act,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
119  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

and may search any person so arrested, except that a woman must not
be searched except by a woman.

 (2) Every person so arrested must, together with any article as to
which an offence may have been committed or attempted to be
committed, be taken to a police station.

 (3) For the purposes of this section, offences punishable under
sections 53, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 68 and 71 are deemed to be seizable
offences within the meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                               [60

                                                                                                           [15/2019]

Powers of search and arrest in respect of offences under
section 53 or 64

 81.—(1) Whenever it appears to any police officer or the Chief
Executive or any employee of the Authority authorised to act for the
Chief Executive under this section that an offence under section 53 or
64 is being committed or is about to be committed or attempted, or
that any article is concealed or deposited or contained in or on any
vessel, aircraft, vehicle or premises in contravention of either of those
sections, the police officer or the Chief Executive or the employee of
the Authority may, if he or she has reasonable grounds for believing
that by reason of the delay in obtaining a search warrant the article is
likely to be removed —

       (a) stop and examine the vessel, aircraft or vehicle or enter the
            premises and there search for and take possession of any
            article and of any book or document which is reasonably
            believed to have a bearing on the case; and

       (b) arrest any person being in the vessel, aircraft, vehicle or
            premises in whose possession the article may be found or
            whom the police officer or the Chief Executive or the
            employee of the Authority may reasonably suspect to have
            concealed or deposited the article and may search any
            person so arrested, except that a woman must not be
            searched except by a woman.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               120

 (2) Every person so arrested must, together with any such article, be
taken to a police station.

                                                                               [61

Obstruction of police officer or Chief Executive or employee of
Authority

 82. Any person who intentionally obstructs a police officer or the
Chief Executive or any employee of the Authority authorised to act
for the Chief Executive in the execution of his or her duty under
section 57 or 81 shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                               [62

No costs or damages or other relief arising from seizure to be
recoverable unless seizure without reasonable or probable
cause

 83. In any proceedings before any court in respect of any
equipment, article, book or document seized in the exercise or the
purported exercise of any power conferred under this Act, a person is
not entitled to the costs of the proceedings or to any damages or other
relief other than an order for the return of the equipment, article, book
or document or the payment of their value unless the seizure was
made without reasonable or probable cause.

                                                                               [63

Composition of offences

 84.—(1) Any police officer not below the rank of sergeant specially
authorised by name in that behalf by the Minister, or any employee of
the Authority specially authorised by name in that behalf by the Chief
Executive, may compound any offence under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
$5,000.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (2) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations prescribing the offences that may be compounded.

                                                                               [64

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
121                Telecommunications Act 1999                 2020 Ed.

General penalties

 85. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act for which no penalty is expressly
provided shall, in addition to the forfeiture of any article seized, be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                               [65

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Saving of prosecutions under other written laws

 86.—(1) This Act does not prevent any person from being
prosecuted under any other written law for any act or omission
which constitutes an offence under this Act or any regulations made
under this Act, or from being liable under that other written law to any
punishment or penalty higher or other than that provided by this Act
or the regulations.

 (2) A person must not be punished twice for the same offence.
                                                                               [66

Jurisdiction of Courts

 87. A Magistrate’s Court or a District Court has jurisdiction to hear
and determine all offences under this Act and, despite anything to the
contrary in the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, has power to impose
the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under this
Act.

                                                                               [67

Offences by bodies of persons

 88. Where an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
this Act has been committed by a company, firm, society or other
body of persons, any person who at the time of the commission of the
offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer or a
partner of the company, firm, society or other body of persons or was
purporting to act in such capacity shall be guilty of that offence and

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               122

shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly
unless he or she proves that —

(a) the offence was committed without his or her consent or
     connivance; and

(b) he or she exercised all such diligence to prevent the
     commission of the offence as he or she ought to have
     exercised, having regard to the nature of his or her
     functions in that capacity and to all the circumstances.
                                                                       [68

          PART 9

          GENERAL PROVISIONS

Reconsideration by Authority and appeal to Minister

89.—(1) Any telecommunication licensee aggrieved by —

(a) any decision of the Authority in the exercise of any
     discretion vested in it by or under this Act; or

(b) anything contained in any code of practice or standard of
     performance or in any direction of the Authority given
     under section 25, 26(2), 31, 40(2), 41(2), 42(1) or 43(3),

may, within 14 days of the receipt of the decision or direction of the
Authority or the issue or approval of the code of practice or standard
of performance, as the case may be —

          (c) make a request to the Authority to reconsider the matter; or

(d) appeal to the Minister.

                              [10/2005; 19/2011; 30/2016]

 (2) Any person (other than a telecommunication licensee) who is
aggrieved by —

(a) any decision of the Authority under section 5(1), 6, 7(1),
     10(1), 17, 23(6), (7) or (12), 27 or 38; or

(b) anything contained in any code of practice issued under
     section 23 or under section 30 read with section 39 or in
     any direction of the Authority given under section 25,
     26(2), 40(2), 41(2), 42(1) or (2),

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
123          Telecommunications Act 1999                       2020 Ed.

may, within 14 days after the receipt of the decision or direction of the
Authority or the issue of the code of practice, as the case may be —

     (c) make a request to the Authority to reconsider the matter; or

     (d) appeal to the Minister.

                                          [19/2011; 30/2016]

 (3) A person must not make both a reconsideration request to the
Authority and an appeal to the Minister in respect of the same
decision or direction of the Authority or thing contained in a code of
practice or standard of performance.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 19/2011]

 (4) Where a reconsideration request and an appeal have been made
in contravention of subsection (3), the appeal is deemed to be
withdrawn.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

(5) Where —

     (a) a reconsideration request has been made to the Authority
          by any person; and

     (b) an appeal in respect of the same decision or direction of the
          Authority or thing contained in a code of practice or
          standard of performance is made or has been made to the
          Minister by any other person,

the appeal to the Minister is deemed to be withdrawn.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 19/2011]

 (6) The Authority may determine any reconsideration request under
this section by confirming, varying or reversing any decision or
direction or by amending any code of practice or standard of
performance.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (7) Any telecommunication licensee or any person mentioned in
subsection (2) (as the case may be) who is aggrieved by any decision
of the Authority under subsection (6) may appeal to the Minister
within 14 days after the receipt of the decision.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (8) Any person who makes an appeal to the Minister under
subsection (1), (2) or (7) must within the period specified in that
subsection —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               124

(a) state as concisely as possible the circumstances under
     which the appeal arises, and the issues and grounds for the
     appeal; and

       (b) submit to the Minister all relevant facts, evidence and
            arguments for or against the appeal, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (9) The Minister may reject any appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (8) or (10).

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (10) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister under
subsection (1), (2) or (7), the Minister may require any person to
whom subsection (11) applies to provide the Minister with all such
information as the Minister may require for the purpose of
considering the appeal and making a determination for resolving it.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (11) Subsection (10) applies to —

(a) any party to the appeal; and

       (b) any person who is not a party to the appeal but appears to
            the Minister to have information that is relevant to the
            matters mentioned in that subsection.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (12) Any person required to provide information under
subsection (10) must provide it in such manner and within such
period as may be specified by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (13) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction of the
Authority or by amending any code of practice or standard of
performance.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (14) Any decision of the Minister under subsection (13) is final.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (15) Unless otherwise provided, where a reconsideration request or
an appeal is made under this section, the decision, direction or other
matter which requires reconsideration by the Authority or which is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
125  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

appealed against must be complied with until the determination of the
reconsideration request or the appeal, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (16) The Minister may make regulations in respect of the manner in
which an appeal may be made to the Minister under subsection (1),
(2) or (7) and the procedure to be adopted in hearing such appeals.

                                                                               [69

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Interest on sums unpaid

 90. If any sum required to be paid by a telecommunication licensee
or a person granted a spectrum right under this Act or any code of
practice or regulation made under this Act is not paid when it is
required to be paid, that licensee or person is liable to pay the
Authority the prescribed interest on such unpaid sums for the period
such sums remain unpaid.

                                                                             [69A

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Power of Minister to issue written order relating to acquisition
of assets, etc., of telecommunication licensee, designated
business trust or designated trust

 91.—(1) The Minister may issue a written order to any person that
acquires the assets or business of, or equity interests in, a
telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
designated trust (called in this section the relevant person), that
telecommunication licensee, the trustee‑manager of that designated
business trust or the trustee of that designated trust (as the case may
be), or both the relevant person and that telecommunication licensee,
trustee‑manager or trustee (as the case may be), if the Minister is
satisfied that —

       (a) the relevant person is not a fit and proper person; and

       (b) it is not in the national interest to allow the relevant person
            to continue to own the assets or business of, or to hold the
            equity interests in, that telecommunication licensee,
            designated business trust or designated trust (as the case
            may be).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               126

 (2) The Minister may, in any written order issued under
subsection (1), direct the relevant person, that telecommunication
licensee, the trustee‑manager of that designated business trust or the
trustee of that designated trust (as the case may be), or both the
relevant person and that telecommunication licensee,
trustee‑manager or trustee (as the case may be), to do all or any of
the following:

(a) direct the transfer or disposal of all of the assets, business
     and equity interests acquired by the relevant person in that
     telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
     designated trust (as the case may be) within such time and
     subject to such conditions as the Minister considers
     appropriate;

(b) restrict the transfer or disposal of the assets, business and
     equity interests in that telecommunication licensee,
     designated business trust or designated trust (as the case
     may be) by the relevant person;

          (c) restrict the exercise of voting power in that
              telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or
              designated trust (as the case may be) by the relevant
              person;

(d) require that no payment be made by that
     telecommunication licensee, the trustee‑manager of that
     designated business trust or the trustee of that designated
     trust (as the case may be) of any amount (whether by way
     of dividends, profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the
     equity interests acquired by the relevant person;

       (e) restrict the issuance or offer of equity interests (whether by
            way of rights, bonus or otherwise) by that
            telecommunication licensee, the trustee‑manager of that
            designated business trust or the trustee of that designated
            trust (as the case may be) in respect of the equity interests
            acquired by the relevant person.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) In the case of any written order made under subsection (2)(a) or
(b) relating to the equity interests, until a transfer or disposal is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
127  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

effected in accordance with the written order or until the restriction on
the transfer or disposal is removed (as the case may be), despite the
provisions of any written law or anything contained in the
memorandum or articles of association, trust deed or other
constitution, of that telecommunication licensee, designated
business trust or designated trust (as the case may be) —

     (a) voting rights are not exercisable in respect of the equity
          interests, unless the Minister expressly permits such rights
          to be exercised;

     (b) no equity interests of that telecommunication licensee,
          designated business trust or designated trust (as the case
          may be) are to be issued or offered (whether by way of
          rights, bonus or otherwise) in respect of the equity
          interests, unless the Authority expressly permits such
          issue or offer; and

       (c) except in a liquidation of that telecommunication licensee,
            designated business trust or designated trust (as the case
            may be), no payment is to be made by that
            telecommunication licensee, the trustee‑manager of that
            designated business trust or the trustee of that designated
            trust (as the case may be) of any amount (whether by way
            of dividends, profits, income or otherwise) in respect of the
            equity interests unless the Minister expressly authorises
            such payment.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) Before issuing the written order under subsection (1), the
Minister must, unless the Minister decides that it is not practicable or
desirable to do so, cause to be given to the relevant person and the
telecommunication licensee, designated business trust or designated
trust (as the case may be) written notice of the Minister’s intention to
issue the written order, specifying the date by which written
representations may be made to the Minister with regard to the
written order.

                                                                                                [10/2005; 19/2011]

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               128

 (5) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider it for the purpose of determining whether to issue the written
order.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (6) The Minister may vary or revoke any written order issued under
this section.

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

 (7) Any person to whom a written order is issued under
subsection (1) must comply with the written order, and the written
order takes effect despite the provisions of any other written law and
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association,
trust deed or other constitution, of the telecommunication licensee,
designated business trust or designated trust (as the case may be).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (8) Any person who contravenes subsection (7) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
     $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
     3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
     to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
     part of a day during which the offence continues after
     conviction; or

      (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
           the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
           exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
           which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                         [10/2005]

(9) In this section —

“designated business trust” and “designated trust” have the
   meanings given by section 37(1);

“equity interest” means —

          (a) in relation to a telecommunication licensee, a voting
               share in that telecommunication licensee;

          (b) in relation to a designated business trust, a unit in that
               designated business trust; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
129  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     (c) in relation to a designated trust, any right or interest,
         whether legal or equitable, in that designated trust
         which gives the holder of that right or interest voting
         power in that designated trust.
                                                                   [69B

                                                                                            [19/2011]

Power of Minister to issue separation order

 92.—(1) The Minister may issue a written order (called in this
section the separation order) to any telecommunication licensee
(called in this section the relevant telecommunication licensee), if —

       (a) either of the following applies:

               (i) the relevant telecommunication licensee is licensed
                   to operate a telecommunication system, or any
                   installation or plant used for telecommunications,
                   that is so costly or difficult to replicate that a
                   requirement to do so would create a significant
                   barrier to rapid and successful entry into the market
                   for telecommunication services in Singapore by an
                   efficient competitor of the relevant
                   telecommunication licensee;

              (ii) the relevant telecommunication licensee has the
                   ability to exercise significant market power in any
                   market for telecommunication services in Singapore,
                   and both of the following apply:

                    (A) the telecommunication services provided by
                          the relevant telecommunication licensee in that
                          market (called in this subsection the relevant
                          telecommunication services) are required by
                          other telecommunication licensees for the
                          provision of telecommunication services in
                          Singapore on a competitive basis;

                     (B) it is so costly or difficult to provide the relevant
                          telecommunication services that a requirement
                          to do so would create a significant barrier to the
                          provision of telecommunication services in

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               130

          Singapore on a competitive basis by an
          efficient competitor of the relevant
          telecommunication licensee;

(b) the Minister is satisfied that the actions that the Authority
     has taken in the exercise of its powers under this Act have
     failed, and that any other actions that the Authority may
     take in the exercise of those powers are likely to fail, to
     enable an efficient competitor of the relevant
     telecommunication licensee to achieve —

          (i) where paragraph (a)(i) applies, rapid and successful
              entry into the market for telecommunication services
              in Singapore; or

          (ii) where paragraph (a)(ii) applies, the provision of
               telecommunication services in Singapore on a
               competitive basis; and

       (c) the Minister is satisfied that it is in the public interest to
            issue the separation order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) In deciding whether it is in the public interest to issue the
separation order, the Minister must have regard to whether the issue
of the separation order is necessary or desirable for one or more of the
following purposes:

(a) to promote and maintain fair and efficient market conduct
     and effective competition between persons engaged in
     commercial activities connected with telecommunication
     systems and services in Singapore;

(b) to promote the efficiency and international
     competitiveness of the telecommunication industry in
     Singapore;

          (c) to eliminate or reduce barriers to competition arising from
              the control of any telecommunication system, or the
              possession of significant market power, by the relevant
              telecommunication licensee;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
131  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

      (d) to promote transparency, non-discrimination and
           equivalence of supply in relation to the provision of
           telecommunication services in Singapore.

                                                                                              [19/2011; 22/2016]

(3) The separation order may —

     (a) direct the relevant telecommunication licensee to transfer
          to a separate entity or an independent entity either or both
          of the following:

     (i) the whole or any part of any business of the relevant
         telecommunication licensee that is conducted
         pursuant to a telecommunication licence granted
         under section 5;

     (ii) the whole or any part of any property of the relevant
          telecommunication licensee that is used by it to
          provide any telecommunication services, and any
          rights, obligations and liabilities relating to that
          property;

     (b) for the purposes of paragraph (a), direct the relevant
          telecommunication licensee —

     (i) to establish a separate entity; and

     (ii) to ensure that the separate entity applies for a licence
          under section 5; and

     (c) contain such other directions as the Minister considers
         appropriate, including (but not limited to) directions
         relating to all or any of the following matters:

     (i) the types of transactions, dealings, arrangements and
         relationships that the relevant telecommunication
         licensee may engage in, or is prohibited from
         engaging in, with the separate entity or
         independent entity;

     (ii) the measures to be implemented to ensure that the
          relevant telecommunication licensee will not obtain
          effective control over the independent entity;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               132

          (iii) any future or contingent right or liability of the
                relevant telecommunication licensee;

          (iv) the conditions of the transfer directed under
               paragraph (a);

              (v) any incidental, consequential or supplementary
                   matters which, in the Minister’s opinion, are
                   necessary to ensure that the transfer directed under
                   paragraph (a) is effective.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) In determining the directions to be included in the separation
order, the Minister must have regard to whether the directions are
proportionate, taking into account —

(a) the contestability of the relevant market for
     telecommunication services in Singapore; and

       (b) the effectiveness of the directions in eliminating or
            minimising any incentive or opportunity for the relevant
            telecommunication licensee to act in a manner that
            prevents, restricts or distorts competition in the relevant
            market for telecommunication services in Singapore.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) A licence granted under section 5 to a separate entity established
by a relevant telecommunication licensee may include (without
affecting the power to impose conditions conferred by that section)
conditions requiring the separate entity —

(a) to operate on a stand-alone basis;

(b) to deal at arm’s length with the relevant telecommunication
     licensee or any of its associates;

          (c) to provide to other telecommunication licensees any
              service on the same terms and conditions (including in
              relation to price, service levels and time frames), and by
              means of the same systems and processes (including
              operational support processes), as it provides to the
              relevant telecommunication licensee or any of its
              associates; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
133  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

      (d) to do, or to refrain from doing, such things as are specified
           in the licence, or as are of a description specified in the
           licence.

                                                                                                         [19/2011]

(6) The separation order takes effect, despite —

     (a) the provisions of any other written law or any rule of law;
          and

       (b) the provisions of the memorandum or articles of
            association, or other constitution, of the relevant
            telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (7) Despite any other written law or any rule of law, where the
separation order contains a direction under subsection (3)(a), on the
date appointed for the transfer of any business or property of the
relevant telecommunication licensee to a transferee —

     (a) that business or property is transferred to, and vests in, the
          transferee without other or further assurance, act or deed,
          and the separation order has effect according to its tenor
          and be binding on any person thereby affected;

     (b) every deed, bond, agreement or other arrangement
          subsisting immediately before that date which relates to
          that business or property, and to which the relevant
          telecommunication licensee is a party, continues in full
          force and effect, and is enforceable by or against the
          transferee, from that date, as if the transferee had been
          named in it or had been a party to it instead of the relevant
          telecommunication licensee; and

       (c) any proceedings or cause of action, by or against the
            relevant telecommunication licensee, pending or existing
            immediately before that date and relating to that business
            or property, if continued, is enforceable by or against, the
            transferee from that date.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (8) Subject to subsection (11), the Minister may award
compensation to the relevant telecommunication licensee for any

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               134

damage caused to it by reason of its compliance with the separation
order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (9) For the purposes of subsection (8), the Minister must, within
6 months after the making of the separation order, by notification in
the Gazette, establish a scheme for determining the amount of any
compensation payable to the relevant telecommunication licensee.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (10) A scheme established under subsection (9) may provide for —

(a) the manner in which any compensation or consideration is
     to be assessed, including methods of calculation, valuation
     dates and matters to be taken into account or disregarded
     when making valuations;

(b) the assessment to be made by an independent valuer
     appointed by the Minister; and

       (c) the remuneration and expenses of the independent valuer.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (11) No compensation is to be awarded under subsection (8) if,
when issuing the separation order, the Minister was satisfied that the
relevant telecommunication licensee had engaged in conduct that
prevents, restricts or distorts competition in any market for
telecommunication services in Singapore, through —

(a) its control of the telecommunication system, or the
     installation or plant used for telecommunications,
     mentioned in subsection (1)(a)(i); or

       (b) the exercise of its market power mentioned in
            subsection (1)(a)(ii).

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (12) Any compensation awarded by the Minister under
subsection (8) must be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (13) Before issuing the separation order, the Minister must, unless
the Minister decides that it is not practicable or desirable to do so,
cause to be given to the relevant telecommunication licensee written
notice of the Minister’s intention to issue the separation order,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
135  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

specifying the date by which written representations may be made to
the Minister with regard to the separation order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (14) Upon receipt of any written representation, the Minister must
consider it for the purpose of determining whether to issue the
separation order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (15) The Minister may at any time vary, suspend or revoke the
whole or any part of the separation order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (16) The relevant telecommunication licensee and any person
affected by the separation order must comply with the separation
order.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (17) Any person who contravenes subsection (16) shall be guilty of
an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

     (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
          $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
          3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
          to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
          part of a day during which the offence continues after
          conviction;

     (b) in the case of an entity which is granted a licence under
          section 5, to a fine not exceeding the higher of the
          following amounts:

     (i) 10% of the annual turnover of that part of its business
         in respect of which it is granted the licence, as
         ascertained from its latest audited accounts; or

     (ii) $1 million,

     (b) and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
          exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
          which the offence continues after conviction; or

     (c) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               136

            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (18) Subsections (4), (5)(a), (6), (7) and (8) of section 37 apply with
the necessary modifications to this section as they apply to Part 5A.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (19) In this section —

“30% controller”, in relation to a telecommunication licensee,
   means a person who, alone or together with the person’s
   associates —

          (a) holds 30% or more of the total number of voting
               shares in the telecommunication licensee; or

          (b) is in a position to control 30% or more of the voting
               power in the telecommunication licensee;

“broadcasting licensee” has the meaning given by section 2(1)
   of the Broadcasting Act 1994, but does not include a class
   licensee as defined in section 2(1) of that Act;

“business” includes any business affairs, property, right,
   obligation or liability;

“effective control”, in relation to a telecommunication licensee
   or an independent entity, means the ability to cause the
   telecommunication licensee or independent entity (as the
   case may be) to take, or to refrain from taking, a major
   decision regarding the management or operations of the
   telecommunication licensee or independent entity (as the
   case may be), and includes such control as may be exercised
   over the telecommunication licensee or independent entity
   (as the case may be) by a 30% controller of the
   telecommunication licensee or independent entity (as the
   case may be);

“independent entity” means an entity that —

          (a) whether alone or together with its associates, does not
               have effective control over any telecommunication
               licensee or broadcasting licensee; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
137  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     (b) is not under the effective control of —

     (i) any telecommunication licensee, whether alone
         or with its associates; or

     (ii) any broadcasting licensee, whether alone or
          with its associates; or

     (c) is not under the effective control of any other entity
         which, whether alone or together with its associates,
         has effective control over any telecommunication
         licensee or broadcasting licensee;

     “property” means assets of every kind, whether tangible or
        intangible, movable or immovable, however acquired, and
        includes —

     (a) any property, right or power of any description; and

     (b) in relation to a telecommunication licensee, the
          telecommunication licensee’s telecommunication
          system and installation or plant used for
          telecommunications;

     “separate entity”, in relation to a telecommunication licensee,
        means an entity which is a separate legal entity from the
        telecommunication licensee, and includes any such entity the
        equity interests of which are wholly owned by the
        telecommunication licensee;

     “significant market power” means the ability to unilaterally
        restrict output, raise prices, reduce quality or otherwise act, to
        a significant extent, independently of competitive market
        forces;

     “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
        Companies Act 1967.

                                                                 [69C

                                                               [19/2011]

Exclusion of liability of public telecommunication licensees

 93. A public telecommunication licensee is not liable in respect of
any injury, loss or damage suffered by any person by reason of —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               138

(a) any failure to provide or delay in providing any
     telecommunication services or any equipment associated
     therewith or service ancillary thereto;

(b) any failure, interruption, suspension or restriction of any
     telecommunication service or service ancillary thereto or
     delay of, or fault in, any communication by means of
     telecommunications;

          (c) any error in, or omission of, any information transmitted
              through telecommunications; or

(d) any loss of secrecy in communication arising from the use
     of any telecommunication service,

which is due to the act or default of another person, or an accident or
some other cause beyond the public telecommunication licensee’s
control.

                                                                               [70

Service of documents, etc.

 94.—(1) Subject to subsection (6), any decision, notice, order or
document required or authorised to be given by the Authority, or
served by the Authority on any person, under this Act, or under any
code of practice or standard of performance, may be served —

       (a) in the case of an individual —

               (i) by delivering the decision, notice, order or document
                   to the individual personally;

              (ii) by leaving the decision, notice, order or document
                   with an adult person apparently resident at the usual
                   or last known address of the place of residence of the
                   individual;

             (iii) by leaving the decision, notice, order or document
                   with an adult person apparently employed at the
                   usual or last known address of the place of business
                   of the individual;

             (iv) by affixing the decision, notice, order or document in
                   a conspicuous place at the usual or last known

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
139  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     address of the place of residence or business of the
     individual;

     (v) by sending the decision, notice, order or document
          by prepaid registered post addressed to the individual
          at the usual or last known address of the place of
          residence or business of the individual;

     (vi) by sending the decision, notice, order or document
          by fax transmission to the last fax transmission
          number of the individual given to the Authority by
          the individual; or

     (vii) by sending an electronic communication of the
           decision, notice, order or document to the last
           electronic mail address of the individual given to
           the Authority by the individual;

     (b) in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability
          partnership —

     (i) by delivering the decision, notice, order or document
         to any one of the partners or the secretary or other
         like officer of the partnership;

     (ii) by leaving the decision, notice, order or document at,
          or by sending the decision, notice, order or document
          by prepaid registered post to, the principal or last
          known place of business of the partnership in
          Singapore;

     (iii) by sending the decision, notice, order or document
           by fax transmission to the last fax transmission
           number of the partnership given to the Authority by
           the partnership; or

     (iv) by sending an electronic communication of the
          decision, notice, order or document to the last
          electronic mail address of the partnership given to
          the Authority by the partnership; and

     (c) in the case of a limited liability partnership or any other
         body corporate —

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.  Telecommunications Act 1999                               140

          (i) by delivering the decision, notice, order or document
              to the manager of the limited liability partnership or
              the secretary or other like officer of the body
              corporate;

          (ii) by leaving the decision, notice, order or document at,
               or by sending the decision, notice, order or document
               by prepaid registered post to, the registered office or
               principal office of the limited liability partnership or
               body corporate in Singapore;

          (iii) by sending the decision, notice, order or document
                by fax transmission to the last fax transmission
                number of the limited liability partnership or body
                corporate given to the Authority by the limited
                liability partnership or body corporate; or

             (iv) by sending an electronic communication of the
                   decision, notice, order or document to the last
                   electronic mail address of the limited liability
                   partnership or body corporate given to the
                   Authority by the limited liability partnership or
                   body corporate.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (2) Where any decision, notice, order or other document required or
authorised to be given by the Authority, or served by the Authority on
any person, under this Act is sent by prepaid registered post, the
decision, notice, order or document is deemed to have been duly
served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days after the day it
was posted, whether or not it is returned undelivered.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (3) Where any decision, notice, order or other document required or
authorised to be given by the Authority, or served by the Authority on
any person, under this Act is sent by fax transmission to a fax
transmission number in accordance with subsection (1), the decision,
notice, order or document is deemed to have been duly served on the
person to whom it is addressed on the day of the transmission, subject
to the receipt on the sending fax machine of a notification (by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
141  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

electronic or other means) of a successful transmission to the fax
machine for that fax transmission number.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (4) Where any decision, notice, order or other document required or
authorised to be given by the Authority, or served by the Authority on
any person, under this Act is sent by electronic communication to an
electronic mail address in accordance with subsection (1), the
decision, notice, order or document is deemed to have been duly
served on the person to whom it is addressed at the time the electronic
communication enters the information system for that electronic mail
address.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (5) Service of any decision, notice, order or other document under
this Act may be effected on a person by electronic communication
only if the person gives as part of the person’s address for service an
electronic mail address.

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

 (6) This section does not apply to notices and documents to be
served in proceedings in court.

                                                                               [71

                                                                                                            [19/2011]

Excluded matters

 95. This Act does not apply to the licensing of any broadcasting
service or any broadcasting apparatus under the Broadcasting
Act 1994 except in respect of the regulation of any
telecommunication system required for the operation of any
broadcasting service or the approval of any broadcasting apparatus
used in accordance with section 11.

                                                                               [72

                                                                                                           [10/2005]

Exemption by Minister

 96. The Minister may exempt any person or class of persons from
all or any of the provisions of this Act.

                                                                               [73

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
2020 Ed.     Telecommunications Act 1999                            142

Regulations

 97.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations for any purpose for which regulations are required
to be made under this Act and generally for carrying out the purposes
and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Authority may, with the
approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to all or
any of the following matters:

(a) the proficiency examinations, including the syllabi and the
     details of such examinations, for the certification of
     competency of individuals operating telecommunication
     services or for the grant of any licence by the Authority;

(b) the classes and the conditions for the grant of licences and
     spectrum rights by the Authority;

          (c) in relation to cable detection work licences —

          (i) the class or classes of licences to be granted, the form
              and duration of those licences, the terms and
              conditions upon, and the circumstances in, which
              those licences may be granted, held, suspended,
              cancelled, altered, extended, renewed or replaced
              and the fees payable in respect thereof;

          (ii) the qualifications and other requirements for
               applicants for such licences, the examination or
               testing of such applicants, the fees payable in respect
               of such examination or testing and the circumstances
               in and conditions on which an applicant may be
               exempted from such examination or testing; and

          (iii) the duties and responsibilities of licensed cable
                detection workers;

(d) the control and regulation of dealing in and use of
     telecommunication equipment;

          (e) the control and regulation of interference by radiowaves or
              electrical or other means to telecommunications in
              Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
143  Telecommunications Act 1999                               2020 Ed.

     (f) the control and regulation of installation, wiring, cabling
         and other types of works to be carried out on the
         telecommunication systems of a telecommunication
         system licensee;

     (g) the control and regulation of the allocation and use of —

     (i) telephone numbers; and

     (ii) any other numbers used for or in connection with
          either or both of the following:

     (A) the operation of telecommunication systems;

     (B) the provision of telecommunication services;

     (h) the prescribing of anything that is required or permitted to
          be prescribed under this Act.
                                                                            [74

                                                                              [10/2005; 19/2011; 30/2016]

Saving and transitional provisions

 98.—(1) Any scheme, contract, document, licence, permission or
resolution prepared, made, granted or approved by the TAS in
relation to telecommunication matters under the repealed Act, so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and except as
otherwise expressly provided in this Act or in any other written law,
continues and is deemed to have been prepared, made, granted or
approved by the Authority under the corresponding provisions of this
Act.

 (2) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Act or any
other written law relating to telecommunication matters and in force
immediately before 1 December 1999, so far as it is not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, continues in force as if made under
this Act until it is revoked or repealed by subsidiary legislation made
under this Act.

                                                                               [75

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT 1999

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 43 of 1999 — Telecommunications Act 1999

Bill                  : 33/1999

First Reading         : 11 October 1999

Second Reading        : 23 November 1999

Notice of Amendments  : 23 November 1999

Third Reading         : 23 November 1999

Commencement          : 1 December 1999

Note: Previously in the Telecommunication Authority of Singapore Act
        (Chapter 323, 1993 Revised Edition).

2. 2000 Revised Edition — Telecommunications Act (Chapter 323)

Operation             : 30 December 2000

3. Act 10 of 2005 — Telecommunications (Amendment) Act 2005

Bill                  : 67/2004

First Reading         : 24 November 2004

Second and Third Readings : 25 January 2005

Commencement          : 16 February 2005 (except sections 10
                            and 11)

4. Act 19 of 2011 — Telecommunications (Amendment) Act 2011

Bill                  : 20/2011

First Reading         : 20 October 2011

Second and Third Readings : 21 November 2011

Commencement          : 1 February 2012

5. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                           Act 2016

   (Amendments made by section 100 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2016

First Reading         : 11 July 2016

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                      ii

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement          : 1 October 2016 (section 100)

6. Act 30 of 2016 — Telecommunications (Amendment) Act 2016

Bill                  : 30/2016

First Reading         : 10 October 2016

Second and Third Readings : 10 November 2016

Commencement          : 1 February 2017

7. Act 15 of 2017 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2017
   (Amendments made by section 53(6) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2017

First Reading         : 28 February 2017

Second and Third Readings : 10 March 2017

Commencement          : 23 May 2017 (section 53(6))

8. Act 26 of 2018 — Public Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 61 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 11/2018

First Reading         : 27 February 2018

Second Reading        : 21 March 2018

Notice of Amendments  : 21 March 2018

Third Reading         : 21 March 2018

Commencement          : 16 May 2018 (section 61)

9. Act 15 of 2019 — Criminal Law Reform Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 187 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 6/2019

First Reading         : 11 February 2019

Second Reading        : 6 May 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 6 May 2019

Third Reading         : 6 May 2019

Commencement          : 1 January 2020 (section 187)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
               iii

10. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
     (Amendments made by section 517 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 517)

11. Act 4 of 2021 — Statute Law Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by section 22(9) of the above Act)

Bill           : 45/2020

First Reading  : 3 November 2020

Second and Third Readings : 5 January 2021

Commencement   : 1 March 2021 (section 22(9))

12. 2020 Revised Edition — Telecommunications Act 1999

Operation      : 31 December 2021

13. G.N. No. S 26/2022 — Variable Capital Companies (Consequential
                                   Amendments to Other Acts) Order 2022

Commencement   : 13 January 2022

14. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

15. Act 31 of 2022 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2022
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 24/2022

First Reading  : 12 September 2022

Second and Third Readings : 3 October 2022

Commencement   : 1 November 2022

16. Act 12 of 2020 — Building Control (Amendment) Act 2020

Bill           : 10/2020

First Reading  : 4 February 2020

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
Second and Third Readings   iv
Commencement               : 6 March 2020
                           : 1 October 2025

.                        Abbreviations

G.N.          (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.      Gazette Notification
L.A.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.          Legislative Assembly
M.            Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
              Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.         Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S             Malaysia)
S.I.          Parliament
S (N.S.)      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.      Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)  Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                 COMPARATIVE TABLE
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.           2000 Ed.

5—(4)              5—(3A)
   (5)                (3B)
   (6)                (3C)
   (7)                (4)
   (8)                (5)
   (9)                (6)
   (10)               (7)

6                  5A
   (4)                (3A)
   (5)                (3B)
   (6)                (3C)
   (7)                (3D)
   (8)                (4)
   (9)                (5)
   (10)               (6)
   (11)               (7)
   (12)               (8)
   (13)               (9)

7                  5B
   (4)                (3A)
   (5)                (3B)
   (6)                (3C)
   (7)                (4)
   (8)                (5)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
         2020 Ed.  ii

   (9)                                2000 Ed.
8                       (6)
9                   6
—                   7
                        (4) [Deleted by Act 10 of 2005]
   (4)                  (5)
   (5)                  (6)
10                  8
—                       (3) [Deleted by Act 10 of 2005]
   (3)                  (4)
   (4)                  (4A)
   (7)                  (6A)
   (8)                  (7)
11                  9
12                  10
13                  11
14                  11A
15                  12
16                  13
17                  14
   (9)                  (8A)
   (10)                 (8B)
   (11)                 (8C)
   (12)                 (9)
   (13)                 (10)
18                  14A
19                  15
20                  16
21                  17

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
         2020 Ed.  iii        2000 Ed.

22                   18
23                   19

   (7)                  (6A)
   (8)                  (6B)
   (9)                  (6C)
   (10)                 (6D)
   (11)                 (6E)
   (12)                 (7)
   (13)                 (8)
   (14)                 (9)
   (15)                 (10)
   (16)                 (11)
   (17)                 (12)
24                   20
25                   21
   (2)                  (1A)
   (3)                  (1B)
   (4)                  (1C)
   (5)                  (1D)
   (6)                  (1E)
   (7)                  (2)
   (8)                  (3)
   (9)                  (3A)
   (10)                 (3B)
   (11)                 (3C)
   (12)                 (3D)
   (13)                 (4)
   (14)                 (4A)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
         2020 Ed.  iv

   (15)                                2000 Ed.
   (16)                 (5)
   (17)                 (6)
26                      (7)
27                   22
28                   23
29                   24
30                   25
31                   26
   (2)               27
   (3)                  (1A)
   (4)                  (2)
   (5)                  (2A)
—                       (3)
   (6)                  (4) [Deleted by Act 10 of 2005]
32                      (5)
33                   28
34                   29
35                   30
36                   31
37                   32
38                   32A
39                   32B
40                   32C
41                   32D
42                   32DA
43                   32E
   (2)               32F
                        (1A)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
        2020 Ed.  v

   (3)                               2000 Ed.
   (4)                 (2)
   (5)                 (3)
   (6)                 (4)
44                     (5)
45                 32G
46                 32H
47                 32I
48                 32J
49                 32K
50                 32L
51                 32M
52                 32N
53                 32O
54                 33
55                 34
56                 35
57                 36
58                 37
59                 38
60                 39
61                 40
62                 41
63                 42
64                 43
—                  44
65                 45 [Repealed by Act 15 of 2019]
66                 46
                   47

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
         2020 Ed.  vi         2000 Ed.

67                   48
68                   49
69                   50
70                   51
71                   52
72                   53
73                   54
74                   55
75                   56
76                   57
77                   58

   (6)                  (5A)
   (7)                  (6)
   (8)                  (7)
   (9)                  (8)
   (10)                 (9)
   (11)                 (10)
78                   59
   (6)                  (5A)
   (7)                  (6)
   (8)                  (6A)
   (9)                  (7)
   (10)                 (8)
79                   59A
80                   60
81                   61
82                   62
83                   63

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
                 2020 Ed.  vii
84
—                                              2000 Ed.
85                           64
86
87                               (3) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2016]
88                           65
89                           66
90                           67
91                           68
92                           69
93                           69A
94                           69B
95                           69C
96                           70
97                           71
98                           72
                             73
                             74
                             75

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/10/2025
