THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                POSTAL SERVICES ACT 1999

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                                      2020 Ed.

Postal Services Act 1999

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                      PART 1A

                             POSTAL AUTHORITY

3. Postal Authority
3A. Functions and duties of Postal Authority
3B. Powers of Postal Authority

                                        PART 2

            EXCLUSIVE PRIVILEGE AND LICENSING, ETC.,
                              OF POSTAL SERVICES

 4. Exclusive privilege with respect to conveyance, etc., of letters
 5. Exceptions to section 4
 6. Power to license conveyance of letters, etc.
 7. Designation of public postal licensees
 7A. Additional licence conditions for public postal licensees
 8. Modification of licence conditions
 9. Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.
10. Residual power of Postal Authority to provide postal services
10A. Charges and other terms for services provided by Postal

         Authority

                                        PART 3
                     POSTAL SERVICES AND SYSTEMS

11. Postal remittance of money
12. Documents to be deemed valuable securities
13. Examination of postal articles

                                                      1

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                             2

Section   Forfeiture of postal articles
   14.    Presumption as to importer
   15.    Letter boxes
   16.    Administrative exemption from section 16
   17.    Posting boxes and postal label vending machines
   18.    Postage stamps
   19.    Official marks to be prima facie evidence of certain facts
   20.    denoted
          Recovery of postage and other sums due in respect of postal
   21.    articles
          [Repealed]
   22.    Power to deal with postal articles sent in contravention of this
   23.    Act

          PART 3A

          PUBLIC PARCEL LOCKERS

          Division 1 — Preliminary

23A.      Interpretation of this Part
23B.      Exclusive privilege with respect to public parcel locker network
23C.      Public parcel locker network operator
23D.      Residual power of Postal Authority with respect to public parcel
          locker network
23E.      Charges and other terms for public parcel locker network
          operated by Postal Authority

          Division 2 — Installation, operation and
            maintenance of public parcel lockers

23F.      Installation, relocation and removal of public parcel lockers
23G.      Power to enter and examine land other than State land
23H.      Power to enter State land
23I.      Power to enter specified premises, etc., for purposes of installing
          public parcel locker or related installation
23J.      Procedure for purposes of section 23I
23K.      Inspection, maintenance and repair of public parcel lockers and
          related installations
23L.      Alteration, relocation, etc., of public parcel locker or related
          installation
23M.      Provision of space or facility under code of practice
23N.      Compliance with code of practice

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
3        Postal Services Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

Section  Provision of space or facility, etc., by direction of Postal
   23O.  Authority
         Disputes as to compensation
   23P.  Public parcel locker network operator not liable to pay fee, etc.,
   23Q.  for right to enter or use land or premises

         Division 3 — Enforcement powers

   23R. Power of Postal Authority to deal with parcels, etc., in public
            parcel lockers

                                           PART 4

                    CODES OF PRACTICE AND DIRECTIONS

   24. Codes of practice, etc.
   25. Directions affecting postal licensee
   26. Advisory guidelines

                                          PART 4A

            CONTROL OVER DESIGNATED POSTAL LICENSEES

   26A. Interpretation of this Part
   26B. Control of acquisition of designated postal licensee
   26C. Power to issue code of practice relating to control of designated

            postal licensee
   26D. Power to issue directions
   26E. Power to obtain information
   26F. Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of

            designated postal licensee
   26G. Power of Minister to issue written order relating to acquisition of

            assets, etc., of postal licensees
   26H. Regulations for carrying out this Part

                                           PART 5

                            OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

                 Division 1 — Offences relating to postal licensees,
                                    postal services, etc.

   27. Obstruction of public postal licensees
   28. Intentional damage to installation or plant used for posts
   29. Protection of installation or plant used for posts

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                          4

Section   Prohibition of false notice relating to public postal licensees’
   30.    installation or plant
          Damage to public postal licensees’ installation or plant
   31.    Compensation for damage caused to public postal licensees’
   32.    installation or plant
          Unlawful operation of postal services
   33.    Offences by officer, employee or agent of postal licensees
   34.    Fraudulent sending of postal article
   35.    Fraudulent retention of postal article
   36.    Penalty for sending anything indecent, etc., by post
   37.    Penalty for making any facsimile, imitation or representation of
   38.    any postage stamp, etc.
          Penalty for erasure of mark denoting used postage stamp
   39.

          Division 2 — Offences relating to public parcel lockers, etc.

39A.      Obstruction of public parcel locker network operator
39B.      Intentional damage to public parcel lockers and related
          installations
39C.      Protection of public parcel lockers and related installations
39D.      Prohibition of false notice relating to public parcel lockers
39E.      Offence to remove, destroy or damage public parcel locker or
          related installation
39F.      Compensation for removal, destruction or damage of public
          parcel locker or related installation
39G.      Unlawful operation of parcel lockers in or on specified premises
39H.      Offences in relation to parcels placed in public parcel lockers,
          etc.
39I.      Offence to retain or open parcel placed in public parcel locker
39J.      Offence to place prohibited item in public parcel locker

                                        PART 6

                   INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS AND
                             NATIONAL INTERESTS

40. Right to conduct international business dealings
41. Government’s overriding international rights
42. Liability for international financial obligations
43. Contribution by Government
44. Provision of postal services for governmental, etc., purposes
45. Directions by Minister

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
5        Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

         PART 7

         ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND PROCEDURES

Section  Power to require information, etc.
   46.   Power to examine, etc.
   46A.  Powers of arrest and search in respect of arrestable offences
   47.   Powers of search and arrest in respect of offences under
   48.   section 33
         Powers of search and arrest in respect of offences under
   48A.  section 39G
         Powers of inspection, search, seizure, etc., in relation to public
   48B.  parcel lockers
         Disposal of letters or parcels seized in relation to offences under
   48C.  section 33 or 39G
         Disposal of articles, documents, letters, parcels, etc.
   48D.  Obstruction of police officer or officer of Postal Authority
   49.   No costs or damages or other relief arising from seizure to be
   50.   recoverable unless seizure without reasonable or probable cause
         Composition of offences
   51.   General penalties
   52.   Saving of prosecutions under other written laws
   53.   Jurisdiction of Courts
   54.   Offences by corporations
   55.   Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   55A.

                                           PART 8

                                GENERAL PROVISIONS

   56. Appeal to Minister
   57. Exclusion of liability of public postal licensees and public parcel

            locker network operator
   58. Exemption from distress and attachment
   59. Service of documents
   60. Exemption by Minister
   61. Regulations

            The Schedule — Powers of Postal Authority

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 6

An Act to provide for the operation and provision of postal systems
  and services in Singapore and for matters connected therewith.

                                    [1 December 1999]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Postal Services Act 1999.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “addressee”, in relation to a postal article, means the person to
         whom the communication is addressed;

      “code of practice” means a code of practice issued or approved
         under section 23M or 24;

      “common property” and “limited common property” have the
         meanings given by section 2(1) of the Building (Strata
         Management) Act 2004;

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

      “correspondent”, in relation to a postal article, means the sender
         or person to whom it is addressed;

      “delivery service provider”, in relation to an article or a thing
         mentioned in paragraph (a) of the definition of “parcel”,
         means a person that —

              (a) conveys any such article or thing from any place to a
                   public parcel locker or vice versa; and

              (b) performs all incidental services of collecting, sorting,
                   sending, despatching and placing in or collecting
                   from a public parcel locker any such article or thing;

      “direct mail” means a letter consisting solely of advertising,
         marketing or publicity material and comprising an identical
         message (except for the addressee’s name, address and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
7                 Postal Services Act 1999                  2020 Ed.

   identifying number and other modifications which do not
   alter the nature of the message) which is sent to more than
   one addressee, to be conveyed and delivered at the address
   indicated by the sender on the letter itself or on its wrapping;

   “equipment” —

   (a) in relation to a public parcel locker — includes any
        appliance, apparatus or accessory used or intended to
        be used with the public parcel locker; or

   (b) in any other case — includes any appliance,
        apparatus or accessory used or intended to be used
        for postal purposes;

   “Housing and Development Board” means the Housing and
      Development Board established by section 3 of the Housing
      and Development Act 1959;

   “installation or plant used for posts” includes all buildings,
      lands, structures, machinery, equipment, boxes and
      receptacles used or intended for use in connection with the
      transmission of postal articles by post;

   “letter box” means any box or receptacle which the owner or
      occupier of any premises has provided or agreed to be used
      for the receipt of postal articles addressed to those premises;

   “mail bag” means any form of container or covering in which
      postal articles in the course of transmission by post are
      enclosed by a postal licensee in Singapore or a foreign postal
      administration for the purpose of conveyance by post,
      whether or not it contains any such articles;

   “parcel” means —

   (a) an article or a thing that is placed in a parcel locker
        for collection by an intended recipient, a person
        authorised by the intended recipient or a delivery
        service provider, as the case may be; or

   (b) a postal article which is posted at a post office in
        Singapore as a parcel in accordance with the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 8

          provisions of this Act or is received at a post office in
          Singapore by parcel post;

“parcel locker” means a box or receptacle that is provided or
   used for the receipt of parcels addressed to any person, but
   does not include a letter box or a posting box;

“post” means any system for the collection, despatch,
   conveyance, sorting, handling and delivery of postal
   articles by or through a postal licensee;

“post office” includes any building, house, room, vehicle or
   place used for the provision of any postal services;

“postage” means the fee chargeable for the transmission by post
   of postal articles;

“postage stamp” means any label or stamp for denoting any
   postage or other sum payable in respect of a postal article,
   and includes any adhesive postage stamp or stamp printed,
   impressed or otherwise indicated on a postal article, whether
   the postage stamp is issued under this Act or by the
   government of any other country;

“postal article” means any article or thing transmissible by post
   but does not include any article or thing that the Postal
   Authority may prescribe to be not transmissible by post;

“Postal Authority” means the person appointed under section 3
   to be responsible for the administration of this Act;

“postal licensee” means a person to whom a licence has been
   granted under section 6;

“postal service” means any service for the conveyance of postal
   articles from one place to another by post, and includes the
   incidental services of receiving, collecting, sorting, sending,
   despatching and delivering any postal articles and any other
   services which relates to any of those services and is provided
   in conjunction with any of them;

“posting box” includes any pillar box, wall box or other box or
   receptacle provided by or under the authority of a postal

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
9  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

   licensee for the purpose of receiving postal articles for
   transmission by post;

   “public parcel locker” means a parcel locker mentioned in
      section 23B(a);

   “public parcel locker network” has the meaning given by
      section 23B;

   “public parcel locker network operator” means a person
      appointed by the Postal Authority under section 23C(1);

   “public postal licensee” means a person designated by the Postal
      Authority under section 7;

   “public postal licensee’s installation or plant” means any
      installation or plant used for posts belonging to or used by
      a public postal licensee;

   “related installation”, in relation to a public parcel locker,
      includes any structure, equipment or cable used or intended
      for use with the public parcel locker;

   “related software”, in relation to a public parcel locker or a
      public parcel locker network, means any software used or
      intended to be used to operate the public parcel locker or
      public parcel locker network;

   “repealed Act” means the Telecommunication Authority of
      Singapore Act (Cap. 323, 1993 Revised Edition) repealed by
      the Info‑communications Development Authority of
      Singapore Act (Cap. 137A, 2000 Revised Edition);

   “sender”, in relation to a postal article, means a person whose
      communication it originates from;

   “standard of performance” means a standard of performance
      issued or approved under section 24;

   “TAS” means the Telecommunication Authority of Singapore
      reconstituted under the repealed Act;

   “Town Council” means a Town Council established by section 4
      of the Town Councils Act 1988;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 10

“vessel” includes any ship, boat, air-cushioned vehicle or
   floating rig or platform used in any form of operations at
   sea or any other description of vessel.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, “letter” means
any communication in written form on any kind of physical medium
(not exceeding 500 grams in weight) to be conveyed and delivered
(otherwise than electronically) to a particular addressee or address
indicated by the sender on the letter itself or on its wrapping, and
includes a postal article containing such communication, but does not
include any book, catalogue, newspaper or periodical.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), any reference to
communication to be conveyed or delivered otherwise than
electronically is a reference to a communication to be conveyed or
delivered otherwise than —

(a) by means of a telecommunication system within the
     meaning of the Telecommunications Act 1999; or

      (b) by any other means but while in electronic form.

                                                                                                         [34/2007]

(4) For the purposes of this Act —

(a) the deposit of a postal article into any posting box of a
     postal licensee, or its delivery to any employee of a postal
     licensee or any agent authorised by the postal licensee to
     receive postal articles of that description on its behalf, is a
     delivery to the postal licensee;

(b) the delivery of a postal article —

          (i) by leaving it at the premises to which it is addressed
              or redirected, unless the premises are a post office
              from which the postal article is to be collected;

          (ii) by depositing it into the letter box of the premises to
               which it is addressed or redirected; or

          (iii) to the addressee’s agent or to any other person
                considered to be authorised to receive the postal
                article,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
11  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) is a delivery to the addressee; and

    (c) a postal article is regarded to be in the course of
        transmission by post from the time of its being delivered
        to a postal licensee to the time of it being delivered to the
        addressee, or it being returned to the sender or otherwise
        disposed of under this Act.

                                                                                                    [34/2007]

            PART 1A
    POSTAL AUTHORITY

                                                             [34/2007]

Postal Authority

 3.—(1) The Info-communications Media Development Authority,
established by section 3 of the Info‑communications Media
Development Authority Act 2016, is appointed as the Postal
Authority.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (2) The Postal Authority is responsible for the administration of this
Act.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

Functions and duties of Postal Authority

 3A.—(1) It is the function and duty of the Postal Authority —

       (a) to promote the efficiency and international
            competitiveness of the postal industry in Singapore;

       (b) to ensure that postal services are reasonably accessible to
            all people in Singapore, and are supplied as efficiently and
            economically as practicable and at performance standards
            that reasonably meet the social, industrial and commercial
            needs of Singapore;

       (c) to promote the development of postal systems and postal
            services in accordance with, as far as practicable,
            recognised international standard practice;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 12

(d) to promote and maintain fair and efficient market conduct
     between persons engaged in commercial activities
     connected with the operation and provision of postal
     systems and postal services for the conveyance of letters in
     Singapore;

          (e) to promote the effective participation of all sectors of the
              Singapore postal industry in markets, whether in Singapore
              or elsewhere;

          (f) to exercise licensing and regulatory functions in respect of
              postal systems and postal services in Singapore;

(g) to exercise regulatory functions in respect of the
     determination and approval of prices, tariffs, charges and
     the provision of postal services and other related services;

(h) to act internationally as the national body representative of
     Singapore in respect of postal matters;

          (i) to advise the Government on national needs and policies in
              respect of all postal matters and on matters pertaining to
              the Postal Authority generally; and

        (j) to further the advancement of technology relating to postal
            systems and postal services.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) In discharging the functions and duties imposed on it by
subsection (1), the Postal Authority is to have regard —

(a) to efficiency and economy;

(b) to the social, industrial and commercial needs of Singapore
     for postal services;

          (c) to the state of and trends in the development of postal
              systems and postal services and the evolution of standards
              and protocols used in the postal industry, both in Singapore
              and elsewhere;

(d) to fostering the development and expansion of postal
     services in the world in collaboration with foreign postal
     administrations, other countries and international
     organisations;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
13  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (e) to maintaining fair competition between persons engaged
        in the provision of postal systems and postal services for
        the conveyance of letters;

    (f) to enabling persons providing postal systems and postal
        services in Singapore to compete fairly in the provision of
        such systems and services outside Singapore;

    (g) to the provision of postal services at rates consistent with
         efficient service;

    (h) to the promotion of research and development in the field
         of postal systems and postal services; and

        (i) to collaboration with educational institutions for the
            promotion of technical education in the field of postal
            systems and postal services.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Additionally, it is the function and duty of the Postal
Authority —

    (a) to promote the efficiency and ensure the security and
         reliability of the public parcel locker network;

    (b) to ensure that public parcel lockers are reasonably
         accessible to all people in Singapore, and are supplied as
         efficiently and economically as practicable and at
         performance standards that reasonably meet the social,
         industrial and commercial needs of Singapore;

    (c) to exercise regulatory functions in respect of the public
        parcel locker network in Singapore; and

       (d) to exercise regulatory functions in respect of the
            determination and approval of prices, tariffs and charges
            in relation to, and the provision of, public parcel lockers.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) In discharging the functions and duties imposed on the Postal
Authority by subsection (3), the Postal Authority is to have regard to
the following matters:

    (a) efficiency and economy;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 14

(b) the social, industrial and commercial needs of Singapore
     for public parcel lockers;

       (c) the provision of public parcel lockers at rates consistent
            with efficient service.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) The Postal Authority may undertake such other functions as the
Minister may from time to time, by notification in the Gazette, assign
to the Postal Authority, and in so doing, the Postal Authority is
deemed to be fulfilling the purposes of this Act, and the provisions of
this Act apply to the Postal Authority in respect of those functions.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (6) Nothing in this section —

(a) imposes on the Postal Authority, either directly or
     indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by
     proceedings before any court to which it would not
     otherwise be subject;

(b) precludes the Postal Authority from interrupting,
     suspending or restricting any postal services provided by
     the Postal Authority;

          (c) precludes the Postal Authority from interrupting,
              suspending or restricting the installation or operation of
              any public parcel locker provided by the Postal Authority
              or a public parcel locker network operator; and

(d) precludes the Postal Authority from ensuring the provision
     of any special service for any person or section of the
     public where the special service is required.

                                                                                     [34/2007; 10/2021]

Powers of Postal Authority

 3B.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Postal Authority
may carry on any activities that appear to it to be advantageous,
necessary or expedient for it to carry on for or in connection with the
discharge of its functions and duties under this Act, and in particular,
the Postal Authority may exercise any of the powers specified in
the Schedule.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
15  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) This section does not limit any power of the Postal Authority
conferred by or under any other written law.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

                                    PART 2

        EXCLUSIVE PRIVILEGE AND LICENSING, ETC.,
                          OF POSTAL SERVICES

Exclusive privilege with respect to conveyance, etc., of letters

 4.—(1) As from 1 December 1999 and subject to this Act, the
Postal Authority has the exclusive privilege of conveying from one
place to another letters and performing all incidental services of
receiving, collecting, sorting, sending, despatching and delivering
letters.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a person must not convey
within Singapore any letter from one place to another (whether the
place is within or outside Singapore), or perform any incidental
services of receiving, collecting, sorting, sending, despatching and
delivering letters, unless the person —

       (a) is the Postal Authority;

       (b) holds a postal licence authorising the person to do so; or

       (c) is acting as an employee or agent of the Postal Authority, or
            of a person who is authorised under a postal licence to do
            so.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Exceptions to section 4

 5.—(1) The privilege conferred by section 4 is not infringed by —

       (a) letters not exceeding 3 in number sent by a person for
            delivery by the person to another without hire, reward or
            other profit for receiving, carrying or delivering the letters;

       (b) any letter solely concerning the affairs of either
            correspondent by an employee of either correspondent;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 16

          (c) the conveyance of any letter solely concerning any goods
              or other property which is to be delivered with the letter,
              without hire, reward or other profit for receiving, carrying
              or delivering the letter, if the letter is open to inspection and
              has thereon the words “Consignee’s letter” or other words
              to the same effect;

(d) the conveyance from one place to another of —

          (i) any letter by direct mail;

          (ii) any letter by the sender personally; or

          (iii) any document in respect of which a method of
                service other than post is required or authorised by
                written law; and

          (e) the conveyance of any letter by —

          (i) intra‑organisational mailroom service; or

          (ii) messenger service.

                                                        [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (2) The Minister may, after consulting the Postal Authority, by
order in the Gazette, delete, vary or add to the exceptions in
subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

(3) In subsection (1)(e) —

“intra‑organisational mailroom service” means a service
   comprising both of the following:

          (a) the conveyance, between 2 or more premises
               occupied by an organisation, of any letter addressed
               to the organisation or an officer or employee of the
               organisation;

          (b) the receiving, collecting and sorting, and the sending,
               despatching and delivery to the organisation or an
               officer or employee of the organisation, of a letter
               mentioned in paragraph (a);

“messenger service” means a service comprising both of the
   following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
17  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the receiving, collecting and sorting of any letter
         originating from an organisation or an officer or
         employee of an organisation (whether the
         organisation occupies one or more premises) and
         that is intended for delivery to an addressee who is
         not another officer or employee of the organisation;

    (b) the sending and despatching of a letter mentioned in
         paragraph (a) to a postal licensee for delivery to the
         addressee.

                                                                                           [10/2021]

Power to license conveyance of letters, etc.

 6.—(1) The Postal Authority may, with the consent of or in
accordance with the terms of any general authority given by the
Minister, grant a licence (called in this Act a postal licence) to any
person or class of persons authorising the person or class of persons to
do anything —

       (a) which would otherwise contravene section 4; and

       (b) which is specified in the licence,

and any such postal licence may be granted without conditions or
subject to any conditions that the Postal Authority thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) A licence granted under subsection (1) may be granted either to
any person, class of persons or a particular person and may include
(without affecting the power to impose conditions conferred by that
subsection) conditions requiring the licensee —

       (a) to enter into agreements or arrangements with any person,
            class of persons or another postal licensee for —

               (i) the interconnection of, and access to, postal systems;

              (ii) the sharing of installation or plant used for posts
                   belonging to any postal licensee; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 18

          (iii) any other purpose specified in the licence,

(a) on any terms and conditions that may be agreed to by the
     licensee and the other persons or licensees or, in default of
     agreement, as may be determined by the Postal Authority;

(b) to pay to the Postal Authority a fee on the grant of the
     licence or to pay to the Postal Authority periodic fees
     during the currency of the licence or both, of such amount
     as may be determined by or under the licence;

          (c) to comply with any direction given by the Postal Authority
              as to any matters that are specified in the licence or are of a
              description so specified;

(d) to comply with codes of practice and standards of
     performance that are applicable to the licensee; and

          (e) to do or not to do such things as are specified in the licence
              or are of a description so specified.

 (3) Any payment required by subsection (2) to be rendered to the
Postal Authority may be recovered by it in any court of competent
jurisdiction as if it were a simple contract debt.

 (4) No person may question whether the grant of a licence under
subsection (1) was, or was not, effected with the consent of or in
accordance with the terms of a general authority given by the
Minister, and the validity of a licence granted under that subsection
must not be impugned on the ground that it was granted neither with
the consent of nor in accordance with the terms of a general authority
given by the Minister.

 (5) The grant of licences under this section is at the discretion of the
Postal Authority.

 (6) Anything done under and in accordance with a licence granted
under subsection (1) does not constitute an infringement of the
privilege conferred by section 4.

Designation of public postal licensees

 7. The Postal Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
designate any postal licensee as a public postal licensee to perform all

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
19  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

or any of the functions relating to the provision of postal services
within the exclusive privilege of the Postal Authority under this Act.

Additional licence conditions for public postal licensees

 7A.—(1) The conditions of a licence granted under section 6 to a
public postal licensee may include conditions requiring the public
postal licensee to enter into agreements or arrangements with any
applicable person or class of applicable persons under which the
public postal licensee delivers applicable postal articles to letter
boxes on the terms and conditions that the public postal licensee and
the applicable person agree to or, in default of agreement, that the
Postal Authority may determine.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) In subsection (1) —

      “applicable person” includes another postal licensee;

      “applicable postal article” means a postal article (other than a
         letter) that is sent and despatched by an applicable person to a
         public postal licensee for delivery to a letter box.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Modification of licence conditions

 8.—(1) Subject to this section, the Postal Authority may modify the
conditions of a licence granted under section 6.

 (2) Before making modifications to the conditions of a licence of a
postal licensee under this section, the Postal Authority must give
notice to the licensee —

       (a) stating that it proposes to make the modifications in the
            manner specified in the notice;

       (b) stating the compensation payable for any damage caused
            by the modifications proposed, where the postal licensee is
            a public postal licensee; and

       (c) specifying the time (not being less than 28 days from the
            date of service of notice on such licensee) within which

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 20

            written representations with respect to the proposed
            modifications may be made.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (2), the Postal Authority must consider the
representation and may —

(a) reject the representation; or

(b) amend the proposed modifications or compensation
     payable in accordance with the representation, or
     otherwise,

and, in either event, the Postal Authority must then issue a direction in
writing to the licensee requiring that effect be given to the proposed
modifications specified in the notice or to such modifications as
subsequently amended by the Postal Authority within a reasonable
time.

(4) The Postal Authority must not enforce its direction —

(a) during the period mentioned in section 56; and

       (b) while the appeal of the postal licensee is under
            consideration by the Minister.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) If no written representation is received by the Postal Authority
within the time specified in subsection (2) or if any written
representation made under subsection (2) is subsequently
withdrawn, the Postal Authority may forthwith carry out the
modifications as specified in the notice given under subsection (2).

Suspension or cancellation of licence, etc.

 9.—(1) If the Postal Authority is satisfied that a person who is
granted a licence under section 6 or any regulations made under this
Act is contravening, or has contravened, whether by act or
omission —

       (a) any of the conditions of the licence;

       (b) any provision of any code of practice or standard of
            performance;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
21  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (c) any direction of the Postal Authority given under
        section 25, 26D or 26F(2); or

    (d) section 26B,

the Authority may, by written notice, do either or both of the
following:

    (e) issue such written order to the person as it considers
        requisite for the purpose of securing compliance thereof;

      (f) require the payment, within a specified period, of a
           financial penalty of such amount not exceeding
           $1 million as it thinks fit.

                                                                                                         [34/2007]

(2) Where the Postal Authority is satisfied that —

    (a) the person who is granted a postal licence is again likely to
         contravene, whether by act or omission, any condition,
         provision, direction or section mentioned in subsection (1);

    (b) the person who is granted a postal licence has gone into
         liquidation other than for the purpose of amalgamation or
         reconstruction;

    (c) the person who is granted a postal licence is no longer in a
        position to comply with the provisions of this Act or the
        terms or conditions of the person’s licence; or

    (d) the public interest so requires,

the Postal Authority may, in lieu of an order or a financial penalty
under subsection (1)(e) or (f) or both, by written notice and without
any compensation, do all or any of the following:

    (e) cancel the licence or part thereof;

    (f) suspend the licence or part thereof for such period as it
        thinks fit;

      (g) reduce the period for which the licence is to be in force.

                                                                                                         [34/2007]

(3) An order under subsection (1)(e) —

    (a) must require the person concerned (according to the
         circumstances of the case) to do, or not to do, any things

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 22

          that are specified in the order or are of a description so
          specified therein;

(b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
     time, as is determined by or under that order; and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) A person who fails to comply with any order under
subsection (1)(e) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) In any proceedings brought against a person for an offence
under subsection (4), it is a defence for the person to prove that the
person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to
avoid contravening the order.

 (6) A financial penalty payable by a person by virtue of
subsection (1) is recoverable by the Postal Authority as a debt due
to the Postal Authority from that person; and the person’s liability to
pay is not affected by the person’s licence ceasing (for any reason) to
be in force.

Residual power of Postal Authority to provide postal services

 10.—(1) The Postal Authority may provide any postal service even
though it has granted a licence to any person under section 6 in any of
the following circumstances:

       (a) if the Postal Authority is of the opinion that a person
            licensed under section 6 has failed to discharge or is not
            discharging to the Postal Authority’s satisfaction the
            obligations imposed by the Postal Authority on that
            person in the licence;

       (b) to give effect to any direction of the Minister under
            section 45.

 (2) Where the Postal Authority undertakes the provision of postal
services under subsection (1), sections 2, 10, 10A, 11, 12, 13, 18 to
21, 23, 27 to 34, 36 to 38, 40 to 44, 57 and 58 apply, with the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
23  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

necessary modifications, to the Postal Authority in respect of the
provision of such services and the references to public postal
licensees or postal licensees in those sections are then references to
the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Charges and other terms for services provided by Postal
Authority

 10A.—(1) The Postal Authority may make, in relation to any
service provided by the Postal Authority under this Act, a scheme or
schemes for determining either or both of the following:

       (a) the charges which, except insofar as they are the subject of
            an agreement between the Postal Authority and a person
            availing himself, herself or itself of the service, are to be
            made by the Postal Authority;

       (b) the other terms and conditions which, except as provided,
            are to be applicable to the service.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) A scheme made under this section may make different provision
for different cases or classes of cases determined by, or in accordance
with, the provisions of the scheme.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) A charge exigible by virtue of this section may be recovered by
the Postal Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as if it
were a simple contract debt.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) A scheme or any amendment thereof made under this section
comes into operation on a date that the Postal Authority determines.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) Nothing in this section is to be construed as prohibiting the
Postal Authority from levying any charge or collecting any dues for
anything done or any service rendered by reason only of not being
incorporated in a scheme and the rates, charges and fees payable to
the Postal Authority for any service rendered must be in accordance
with such rates, charges and fees as may, from time to time, be
determined by the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 24

                            PART 3

          POSTAL SERVICES AND SYSTEMS

Postal remittance of money

 11.—(1) A public postal licensee may provide for the remittance of
any sum of money through the post or any electronic or other system
established by or among foreign postal administrations and postal
licensees, if the public postal licensee is authorised by its licence to do
so.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (2) A public postal licensee mentioned in subsection (1) may
specify the documents to be used in connection with the remittances
under subsection (1).

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

Documents to be deemed valuable securities

 12. Any document specified by a public postal licensee mentioned
in section 11(1) to be used for the remittance of money through the
licensee is deemed to be a valuable security within the meaning of the
Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Examination of postal articles

 13. All postal articles received from outside Singapore may be
examined while in the custody of a postal licensee by the
Director‑General of Customs or any senior officer of customs, and
may be opened by an employee of the licensee in the presence of the
Director‑General of Customs or the senior officer of customs for the
purpose of the examination.

                                                                                                 [4/2003; 34/2007]

Forfeiture of postal articles

 14. Any postal article found upon any examination under section 13
to contain any dutiable goods, that postal article not having affixed
thereto a true declaration of those goods, is liable to forfeiture by
order of the Director‑General of Customs.

                                                                                                             [4/2003]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
25  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

Presumption as to importer

 15. The addressee of any postal article containing any dutiable
goods is presumed until the contrary is proved to have imported the
same.

Letter boxes

 16.—(1) The Postal Authority may, from time to time, do all or any
of the following:

       (a) issue or approve the specifications relating to the number,
            place, dimensions and other characteristics of letter boxes;

       (b) approve the installation and use of any other mail delivery
            systems or arrangements;

       (c) amend or revoke any specifications issued or approved
            under paragraph (a) or any approval under paragraph (b).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Where any specifications are issued or approved, or amended or
revoked by the Postal Authority under subsection (1), the Postal
Authority must —

       (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
            revocation (as the case may be) of the specifications in any
            manner as will secure adequate publicity for the issue,
            approval, amendment or revocation;

       (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
            issue, approval, amendment or revocation, as the case may
            be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the specifications remain in force,
            the specifications, and all amendments to those
            specifications, are available for inspection by members
            of the public.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) A developer of any residential building or commercial or
industrial building must —

       (a) provide one letter box for each lot within any residential
            building or commercial or industrial building;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 26

(b) ensure that the letter boxes provided under paragraph (a)
     are numbered in numerical sequence; and

       (c) comply with all specifications issued, approved or
            amended by the Postal Authority under subsection (1).

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (4) Any developer who contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of
an offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) Where letter boxes are provided under subsection (3) for a
residential building, or a commercial or industrial building, that is a
subdivided building, the applicable person for the building must —

(a) ensure that one letter box (whether provided under
     subsection (3) or under this subsection) continues to be
     provided for each lot within the building;

(b) where any lot within the building is further subdivided into
     2 or more lots, provide one letter box for each new lot;

          (c) ensure that the letter boxes —

          (i) are numbered, or continue to be numbered, in
              numerical sequence; and

          (ii) are at all times kept in a state of good and serviceable
               repair;

(d) repair or replace without unreasonable delay any letter box
     which is damaged or otherwise unusable; and

       (e) comply with all specifications issued, approved or
            amended by the Postal Authority under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) The applicable person for a building mentioned in
subsection (5) may recover the costs reasonably incurred for
providing a letter box for a new lot within the building under
subsection (5)(b) from the subsidiary proprietor of the new lot or the
person who is registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 as the
proprietor of the fee simple, estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of
the new lot if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
27  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the building is premises comprised in a strata title plan
         under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967; and

       (b) the letter box provided is not common property or limited
            common property of the building.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) In the case of a residential building, or a commercial or
industrial building, that is not a subdivided building, the person who
is registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 as the proprietor of the
fee simple, estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of the building
must —

    (a) ensure that the letter box provided for the building under
         subsection (3) is at all times kept in a state of good and
         serviceable repair;

    (b) where the letter box is damaged or otherwise unusable,
         repair or replace the letter box without unreasonable delay;
         and

       (c) comply with all specifications issued, approved or
            amended by the Postal Authority under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (8) A person who contravenes subsection (5) or (7) shall be guilty
of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (9) It is the duty of —

    (a) the owner of any common property or limited common
         property (as the case may be) on which a letter box is
         situated, being a letter box which is provided for persons
         occupying the building or part thereof; and

    (b) the owner of a building where a letter box is provided for
         the owner or occupier of the building,

to keep at all times the lawful access to the letter box clear from any
obstruction by any vehicle, debris, box or object or any other thing
which would prevent or impede the delivery of postal articles to that
letter box by a postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 28

 (10) Where, in the opinion of the Postal Authority, the lawful access
to any letter box mentioned in subsection (9) is not clear from any
obstructions mentioned in that subsection, the Postal Authority may,
by written notice, require the owner of the common property or
limited common property, or the owner or occupier of the building
mentioned in subsection (9)(b) (as the case may be) to undertake,
within the time specified in that notice, any work or rectification steps
to ensure that subsection (9) is complied with.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (11) If any person on whom a notice under subsection (10) is
served, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with the
requirements of that notice, that person shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
exceeding $25 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (12) To avoid doubt, subsections (9), (10) and (11) do not apply
with respect to any sealing or locking of the aperture of a letter box by
the person for whom the letter box is provided, or any closure or
locking of any normal access to the letter box by or under lawful
authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (13) In this section —

“applicable person”, for a residential building, or a commercial
   or industrial building, means —

          (a) in relation to a building that is premises comprised in
               a strata title plan under the Land Titles (Strata)
               Act 1967 —

          (i) where the letter boxes are common property of
              the building — the management corporation
              having control of that common property;

          (ii) where the letter boxes are limited common
               property of the building — the subsidiary
               management corporation established by the
               Building (Strata Management) Act 2004

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
29  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

          having control of that limited common
          property; or

                                                      [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

    (iii) where the letter boxes are not common property
          or limited common property of the building —
          the management corporation having control of
          the common property of the building;

    (b) in relation to a building in a housing estate of the
         Housing and Development Board (called an HDB
         housing estate) —

    (i) where the building’s common property is in an
        HDB housing estate that is controlled,
        managed and maintained by a Town
        Council — that Town Council; or

    (ii) where the building’s common property is in an
         HDB housing estate that is not controlled,
         managed and maintained by a Town Council —
         the Housing and Development Board; or

    (c) in relation to a building that is a subdivided building
        other than a subdivided building mentioned in
        paragraph (a) or (b), every person who is registered
        under the Land Titles Act 1993 as the proprietor of
        the fee simple, estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate
        of a lot in that building;

    “commercial or industrial building” includes any shopping
       complex;

    “lot” means any stratum that satisfies all of the following
       requirements:

    (a) the stratum —

    (i) is within a parcel of any land, building and
        common property comprised or to be
        comprised in a strata title plan and is shown
        as a lot on the strata title plan, including a lot
        specified as an accessory lot on any such plan;
        or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 30

          (ii) is within any land or building not comprised or
               not to be comprised in a strata title plan;

          (b) the stratum is used or intended to be used as a
               complete and separate unit for the purpose of
               habitation or business or for any other purpose;

          (c) a number has been allotted to the stratum by the
              Comptroller of Property Tax under section 51(1) of
              the Property Tax Act 1960;

“owner” and “stratum” have the meanings given by section 2(1)
   of the Building (Strata Management) Act 2004;

                                                                       [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

“subdivided building” has the meaning given by section 3(1) of
   the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967.

                                                                                       [34/2007; 10/2021]

Administrative exemption from section 16

 17.—(1) The Postal Authority may, where the Postal Authority is
satisfied that all of the matters in subsection (2) apply, exempt —

       (a) a particular developer of a particular residential building or
            a particular commercial or industrial building from the
            application of section 16(3)(a); or

       (b) a particular applicable person for a particular residential
            building or a particular commercial or industrial building
            from the application of section 16(5)(a) or (b).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The matters mentioned in subsection (1) are the following:

       (a) that either of the following applies:

               (i) there is no suitable location in the particular
                   residential building or the particular commercial or
                   industrial building for letter boxes to be provided;

              (ii) having regard to the use or intended use of the
                   particular residential building or the particular
                   commercial or industrial building, there is no need
                   for letter boxes to be provided;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
31  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

      (b) appropriate alternative arrangements have been or will be
           made by the particular developer or particular applicable
           person for the receipt of postal articles.

                                                                                                         [10/2021]

(3) An exemption under this section —

    (a) must be in writing and given to the particular developer or
         particular applicable person, as the case may be; and

    (b) need not be published in the Gazette.

                                                             [10/2021]

 (4) In this section, “applicable person” has the meaning given by
section 16(13).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Posting boxes and postal label vending machines

 18. A postal licensee may, with the approval of the Postal Authority,
erect, relocate and remove any posting box and postal label vending
machine in any public road, street or highway, or in any other public
place.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Postage stamps

 19.—(1) A person (other than the Postal Authority or a specified
public postal licensee) must not provide or cause to be provided
postage stamps that bear the word “Singapore” in any language.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Any postage stamp provided under subsection (1) may be of
such kind and may denote such values as the Postal Authority or
specified public postal licensee may determine.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (4) Any postage stamp provided under this section must be used for
the prepayment of any postage or other sum chargeable under this Act
in respect of any postal article to be conveyed and delivered by or
through the Postal Authority or the specified public postal licensee,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 32

except where the Postal Authority or specified public postal licensee
determines that prepayment may be made in some other manner.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (5) The design of every postage stamp provided by a specified
public postal licensee under this section must be approved by the
Postal Authority.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (6) All philatelic archival materials produced by a specified public
postal licensee belong to the Government, and all philatelic archival
materials must be kept in such custody as the Government directs.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (7) In subsection (6), “philatelic archival materials” includes —

(a) philatelic stamps;

(b) artworks, proofs, progressive sheets, printed sheets and
     printing plates of philatelic stamps; and

       (c) date stamps, slogan dies and other artifacts used in
            connection with the production of philatelic stamps.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (8) The Minister may, after consulting the Postal Authority, by
order in the Gazette, delete, vary or add to the items of “philatelic
archival materials” specified in subsection (7).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (9) In this section, “specified public postal licensee” means a public
postal licensee that is authorised by the licence granted under
section 6 to provide postage stamps that bear the word “Singapore” in
any language.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Official marks to be prima facie evidence of certain facts
denoted

 20. In any proceedings for the recovery of any postage or other fee
or sum payable in respect of a postal article —

       (a) the production of a postal article having thereon the official
            mark of a public postal licensee denoting that the article
            has been refused or that the addressee is dead or cannot be
            found is prima facie evidence of the fact so denoted; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
33  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) the person from whom any postal article purports to come
         is, until the contrary is proved, deemed to be the sender
         thereof.

Recovery of postage and other sums due in respect of postal
articles

 21.—(1) Where any postage or other fee or sum is not prepaid or
fully prepaid in respect of a postal article posted for delivery in
Singapore, a public postal licensee is entitled to be paid, as a
condition of delivery, any fee, in addition to the amount of the postage
or of the deficient postage payable in respect of the delivery of the
article, that is payable in accordance with a determination made by a
Postal Authority.

 (2) The official mark or label on a postal article denoting that any
postage or other fee or sum is due in respect thereof to a public postal
licensee or to the postal authority of any foreign country is prima
facie evidence that the postage or other fee or sum denoted is so due.

 22. [Repealed by Act 34 of 2007]

Power to deal with postal articles sent in contravention of this
Act

 23.—(1) Any postal article sent by post which is suspected to be
sent in contravention of this Act or any regulations made under this
Act may be detained and opened by a public postal licensee or
otherwise dealt with in accordance with the directions of the Postal
Authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) The detention of a postal article under subsection (1) does not
exempt the sender from any proceedings which might have been
taken if the postal article had been delivered in due course of post.

 (3) Any postal article sent in contravention of this Act or any
regulations made under this Act must be destroyed, returned to the
sender or dealt with in any other manner that the Postal Authority
may direct.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 34

 (4) The Postal Authority may, by written order, direct a postal
licensee to detain and open all or any postal articles sent by any
person or persons named in the order who are reasonably suspected of
sending postal articles by post in contravention of this Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) Upon receipt of an order under subsection (4), a postal licensee
must detain and open the postal article or articles specified in the
order, and any postal article found to have been sent in contravention
of this Act must be dealt with in accordance with subsection (3).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

                                   PART 3A

                      PUBLIC PARCEL LOCKERS

                         Division 1 — Preliminary

Interpretation of this Part

 23A. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “authorised person”, for any provision of this Part, means a
         person authorised by the public parcel locker network
         operator for the purposes of that provision;

      “owner” —

              (a) in relation to any premises comprised in a strata title
                   plan under the Land Titles (Strata) Act 1967,
                   means —

                     (i) in the case of a lot — the person who is
                          registered as the subsidiary proprietor of the lot
                          under that Act;

                     (ii) in the case of any common property — the
                          management corporation having control of that
                          common property, or the person receiving any
                          rent or charge for the maintenance and
                          management of that common property; and

                    (iii) in the case of any limited common property —
                          the subsidiary management corporation
                          established by the Building (Strata

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
35  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

                Management) Act 2004 having control of that
                limited common property, or the person
                receiving any rent or charge for the
                maintenance and management of that limited
                common property;

                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

    (b) in relation to a building in a housing estate of the
         Housing and Development Board (called an HDB
         housing estate), means —

    (i) in the case of a flat — any owner of the flat as
        defined in section 2(1) of the Housing and
        Development Act 1959;

    (ii) in the case of the building’s common property
         in an HDB housing estate that is controlled,
         managed and maintained by a Town Council —
         that Town Council; and

    (iii) in the case of the building’s common property
          in an HDB housing estate that is not controlled,
          managed and maintained by a Town Council —
          the Housing and Development Board;

    (c) in relation to a subdivided building other than a
        subdivided building mentioned in paragraph (a) or
        (b), means —

    (i) in the case of a lot — the person who is
        registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 as the
        proprietor of the fee simple, estate in perpetuity
        or leasehold estate of that lot; and

    (ii) in the case of the subdivided building’s
         common property — every person who is
         registered under the Land Titles Act 1993 as
         the proprietor of the fee simple, estate in
         perpetuity or leasehold estate of a lot in that
         building, or the person receiving any rent or
         charge for the maintenance or management of
         the common property;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 36

          (d) in relation to any premises which are not subdivided,
               means any person who is registered under the Land
               Titles Act 1993 as the proprietor of the fee simple,
               estate in perpetuity or leasehold estate of those
               premises; and

          (e) in relation to any other premises or building, means
              the person for the time being receiving the rent of the
              premises or building, whether on the person’s own
              account or as agent, trustee or receiver, or who would
              receive such rent if the premises or building were let
              to a tenant, and includes the person whose name is
              entered in the Valuation List prepared under
              section 10 of the Property Tax Act 1960 as the
              owner of the premises or building, or a mortgagee in
              possession;

“premises” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the
   Building Control Act 1989;

“relevant land” means any land adjoining any specified
   premises, that is owned or occupied by —

          (a) the Government, including any ministry, department,
               agency or Organ of State; or

          (b) any body corporate established by a public Act for a
               public function,

          but excludes State land;

“Singapore Land Authority” means the Singapore Land
   Authority established by section 3 of the Singapore Land
   Authority Act 2001;

“specified day” means 14 May 2021;

“specified premises” —

          (a) means any of the following:

          (i) the common property of a building in an HDB
              housing estate;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
37  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (ii) a bus interchange within the meaning given by
         section 2 of the Bus Services Industry
         Act 2015;

    (iii) a railway commuter facility or railway
          premises within the meaning given by
          section 2 of the Rapid Transit Systems
          Act 1995;

    (iv) a community centre or club managed or run by
         the People’s Association established by
         section 2(1) of the People’s Association
         Act 1960;

    (v) any other premises that are prescribed by the
         Minister, by order in the Gazette, as specified
         premises; and

    (b) includes any State land adjoining any premises
         mentioned in paragraph (a).

                                                                                           [10/2021]

Exclusive privilege with respect to public parcel locker
network

 23B. The Postal Authority has the exclusive privilege of
establishing, installing, operating and maintaining all of the
following (collectively called the public parcel locker network):

       (a) parcel lockers located in or on any specified premises
            (called public parcel lockers);

       (b) related installations for any parcel locker mentioned in
            paragraph (a);

       (c) related software for any parcel locker mentioned in
            paragraph (a) or related installation mentioned in
            paragraph (b).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Public parcel locker network operator

 23C.—(1) The Postal Authority may appoint a person (called a
public parcel locker network operator) to establish, install, operate

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 38

and maintain the public parcel locker network or any part of the
public parcel locker network, subject to any conditions that the Postal
Authority thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Anything done by the public parcel locker network operator
under and in accordance with this Act and any conditions imposed
under subsection (1) does not constitute an infringement of the
privilege conferred on the Postal Authority under section 23B.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Residual power of Postal Authority with respect to public
parcel locker network

 23D.—(1) The Postal Authority may, despite the appointment of
the public parcel locker network operator under section 23C(1),
establish, install, operate and maintain the public parcel locker
network or any part of the public parcel locker network —

       (a) if the Postal Authority is of the opinion that the public
            parcel locker network operator has failed to comply with
            the provisions of this Part or any condition imposed by the
            Postal Authority under section 23C(1); or

       (b) to give effect to any direction of the Minister under
            section 45.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where the Postal Authority installs, operates and maintains the
public parcel locker network or part of the public parcel locker
network under subsection (1) —

       (a) sections 2, 23A, 23G to 23L, 23Q, 39A to 39J, 57(3) and 58
            apply, with the necessary modifications, to the Postal
            Authority in respect of the installation, operation and
            maintenance of the public parcel locker network or part
            thereof; and

       (b) the references to the public parcel locker network operator
            in those sections are references to the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
39  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

Charges and other terms for public parcel locker network
operated by Postal Authority

 23E.—(1) The Postal Authority may, in respect of the public parcel
locker network or part thereof operated by the Postal Authority under
section 23D, determine either or both of the following:

    (a) the charges for the use of any public parcel locker, unless
         otherwise agreed by an agreement between the Postal
         Authority and a person using the public parcel locker;

       (b) the other terms and conditions which, except as provided in
            this Part, are to be applicable to the public parcel locker
            network or part thereof.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The Postal Authority may make different provision for different
cases or classes of cases.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) A charge payable under subsection (1)(a) may be recovered by
the Postal Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as if it
were a simple contract debt.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) Nothing in this section prohibits the Postal Authority from
levying any charge or collecting any dues for anything done or any
service rendered other than for the use of a public parcel locker; and
the rates, charges and fees payable to the Postal Authority for any
service rendered must be in accordance with any rates, charges and
fees determined by the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

                Division 2 — Installation, operation and
                  maintenance of public parcel lockers

Installation, relocation and removal of public parcel lockers

 23F. The public parcel locker network operator may, with the prior
approval of the Postal Authority, install, relocate or remove any
public parcel locker.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 40

Power to enter and examine land other than State land

 23G.—(1) This section applies whenever it appears to the public
parcel locker network operator that it is or is probably necessary to
exercise the powers conferred by this Part on the public parcel locker
network operator in respect of any land (except State land) in relation
to the installation of any public parcel locker or related installation.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The public parcel locker network operator or an authorised
person may, after giving at least 3 hours’ prior notice to the occupier
(if any) of the land mentioned in subsection (1) —

(a) enter the land; and

       (b) do all necessary acts preparatory to the installation of any
            public parcel locker or related installation, so far as those
            acts may be possible without causing any damage or
            disturbance.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) Where any damage or disturbance is caused by reason of the
entry on the land under subsection (2), the public parcel locker
network operator must pay compensation to the owner or occupier of
the land.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) Nothing in this section authorises any authorised person or any
officer, employee or agent of the public parcel locker network
operator —

(a) to cut down or clear away any vegetation or any fence or
     other structure; or

(b) to enter any building or any enclosure attached to any
     building.

                                                                                                 [10/2021]

Power to enter State land

 23H.—(1) For the purpose of installing any public parcel locker or
related installation, the public parcel locker network operator or an
authorised person may, at any reasonable time —

       (a) enter any State land;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
41  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) with the approval of the Postal Authority and the Singapore
         Land Authority, install on the State land any public parcel
         locker or related installation; and

       (c) carry out all necessary works in connection with
            paragraph (a) or (b).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where any work mentioned in subsection (1) interferes with any
improvements, buildings, growing trees or crops on the State land,
the public parcel locker network operator must pay compensation for
any damage or disturbance.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) Where the State land is occupied under a licence for temporary
occupation, the compensation must be paid to the occupant
mentioned in the licence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Power to enter specified premises, etc., for purposes of
installing public parcel locker or related installation

 23I.—(1) Subject to section 23J, the public parcel locker network
operator may —

       (a) enter any specified premises or relevant land for the
            purposes of paragraph (b) or (c);

       (b) install any public parcel locker in or on the specified
            premises;

       (c) install any related installation in or on the specified
            premises or relevant land; and

       (d) take any other action as may be necessary to ensure the
            safety and efficiency of the public parcel locker or related
            installation, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where any damage, disturbance or disability is caused by
reason of any act done under subsection (1), the public parcel locker
network operator must pay compensation to any person interested.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) Any compensation payable under subsection (2) may include an
annual payment for land, building or other immovable property used

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 42

for the purpose of the public parcel locker or related installation, as
the case may be.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) The public parcel locker network operator does not acquire any
right other than that of user only in respect of any land, building or
other immovable property in or on which the public parcel locker
network operator installs any public parcel locker or related
installation under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Procedure for purposes of section 23I

 23J.—(1) Where the public parcel locker network operator intends
to enter any specified premises or relevant land under section 23I(1),
the public parcel locker network operator must —

(a) give at least 14 days’ written notice to the owner or
     occupier of the specified premises or relevant land before
     entering that specified premises or relevant land, as the
     case may be; and

(b) satisfy any other prescribed requirements.

                                                                   [10/2021]

(2) The written notice given under subsection (1)(a) must state —

(a) as fully and accurately as possible the nature and extent of
     the acts intended to be done; and

(b) the time within which the owner or occupier of the
     specified premises or relevant land may lodge a written
     objection with the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                 [10/2021]

 (3) Where a written objection is lodged by the owner or occupier of
the specified premises or relevant land (called in this section the
objector) —

(a) the Postal Authority must notify the public parcel locker
     network operator to resolve the dispute with the objector;
     and

(b) the public parcel locker network operator must, upon
     receiving the Postal Authority’s notice under

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
43  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

            paragraph (a), take genuine steps to resolve the dispute
            with the objector.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) If the public parcel locker network operator fails to resolve the
dispute with the objector, the Postal Authority may, after giving each
party a reasonable opportunity to be heard, decide on the written
objection.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) The Postal Authority may authorise, subject to the terms and
conditions that the Postal Authority thinks fit, any of the acts
mentioned in the notice given under subsection (1)(a) to be carried
out.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) The public parcel locker network operator may enter the
specified premises or relevant land (as the case may be), and do all or
any of the acts mentioned in the written notice given under
subsection (1)(a) —

    (a) where no written objection is lodged within the period
         specified in the written notice — after the expiry of that
         period; or

    (b) where a written objection is lodged within the period
         specified in the written notice —

    (i) after the written objection is withdrawn;

    (ii) after the public parcel locker network operator
         resolves the dispute with the objector; or

    (iii) on the Postal Authority’s authorisation under
          subsection (5), subject to the terms and conditions
          (if any) imposed by the Postal Authority under that
          subsection.

                                                                                            [10/2021]

Inspection, maintenance and repair of public parcel lockers
and related installations

 23K.—(1) For the purpose of inspecting, maintaining or repairing
any public parcel locker or related installation, the public parcel

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 44

locker network operator or an authorised person may, at any
reasonable time —

(a) enter any land or building, whether or not the public parcel
     locker or related installation (as the case may be) has been
     installed in or on the land or building, as the case may be;
     and

       (b) carry out all necessary inspection, maintenance or repair,
            causing as little damage as possible.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where any damage, disturbance or disability is caused by
reason of any act done under subsection (1), the public parcel locker
network operator must pay compensation to any person adversely
affected to the extent that compensation has not already been assessed
under section 23I(2).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Alteration, relocation, etc., of public parcel locker or related
installation

 23L.—(1) Where —

       (a) any public parcel locker or related installation has been
            installed in or on any specified premises or land under
            section 23H or 23I; and

       (b) the owner or occupier of the specified premises or land
            desires to use the specified premises or land in a manner
            which makes it necessary or convenient for the public
            parcel locker or related installation to be altered, removed,
            relocated or diverted,

the owner or occupier of the specified premises or land may request
the public parcel locker network operator to alter, remove, relocate or
divert the public parcel locker or related installation (as the case may
be) accordingly.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The public parcel locker network operator may, at the request of
the owner or occupier of the specified premises or land under
subsection (1), alter, remove, relocate or divert the public parcel
locker or related installation (as the case may be) if —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
45  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the public parcel locker network operator is satisfied that
         the alteration, removal, relocation or diversion is
         reasonable; and

       (b) the owner or occupier complies with any reasonable terms
            and conditions that the public parcel locker network
            operator may impose.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) The terms and conditions mentioned in subsection (2)(b) may
include terms and conditions relating to the payment by the owner or
occupier of the specified premises or land of all costs and expenses
necessary for the alteration, removal, relocation or diversion.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Provision of space or facility under code of practice

 23M.—(1) Without affecting section 24, the Postal Authority may,
for the purposes of this Part —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice for or in connection
            with —

               (i) the installation, operation and maintenance of the
                   public parcel locker network, including the charges
                   and terms and conditions relating to the use and
                   provision of public parcel lockers;

              (ii) the provision, maintenance and use of, and access to,
                   space and facilities in or on any specified premises or
                   relevant land for the operation of any public parcel
                   locker or related installation; and

             (iii) the allocation of costs and expenses incurred for the
                   provision, maintenance and use of, and access to, the
                   space and facilities mentioned in sub‑paragraph (ii);
                   and

       (b) amend, suspend or revoke the whole or any part of any
            code of practice issued under paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) A code of practice issued under subsection (1) may, in
particular —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 46

(a) require the developer, owner or occupier of any specified
     premises or relevant land to provide, maintain or give
     access to, at the expense of the developer, owner or
     occupier (as the case may be), any space or facility in or on
     the specified premises or relevant land for the installation,
     operation or maintenance of any public parcel locker or
     related installation; and

       (b) provide for any fees and charges that may be payable to the
            Postal Authority in relation to any application or request
            made to the Postal Authority under the code of practice.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) If any provision in any code of practice issued under
subsection (1) is inconsistent with any provision of this Act, that
provision in that code of practice, to the extent of the inconsistency —

(a) is to have effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

       (b) having regard to this Act, is not to have effect.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) Where any code of practice is issued, amended or revoked under
subsection (1), the Postal Authority must —

(a) publish a notice of the issue, amendment or revocation (as
     the case may be) of the code of practice in such manner as
     will secure adequate publicity for the issue, amendment or
     revocation;

(b) specify in the notice in paragraph (a) the date of issue,
     amendment or revocation, as the case may be; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
            copies of that code of practice, and all amendments to that
            code of practice, are made available, free of charge, to the
            persons to whom the code of practice applies.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) No code of practice, no amendment to a code of practice and no
revocation of any code of practice has any force or effect as a code of
practice until the notice relating to that code of practice is published
in accordance with subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
47  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (6) A code of practice issued under subsection (1) does not have
legislative effect.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), the public parcel locker network
operator and every developer, owner or occupier of any specified
premises or relevant land to whom any code of practice applies must
comply, at that person’s expense, with that code of practice.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (8) The Postal Authority may, either generally or for any period that
the Postal Authority may specify, waive the application, to the public
parcel locker network operator or any developer, owner or occupier
of any specified premises or relevant land, of any code of practice
issued under subsection (1) or any part of that code of practice.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Compliance with code of practice

 23N.—(1) The Postal Authority may —

       (a) give a written notice to the public parcel locker network
            operator, or the developer, owner or occupier of any
            specified premises or relevant land, requiring compliance
            with any code of practice issued under section 23M(1); or

       (b) vary, suspend or revoke the whole or any part of the written
            notice given under paragraph (a).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) To avoid doubt, the Postal Authority may give a written notice
under subsection (1)(a) even though the written notice may affect the
contractual obligations of the person to whom the written notice is
given, whether the obligation relates to a contract made before, on or
after the specified day.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) No liability shall lie against any party to a contract made before,
on or after the specified day for or in relation to any breach of the
contract, where the breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned by,
the compliance by that party with a written notice under
subsection (1)(a).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 48

 (4) Nothing in subsection (3) affects the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) Where —

(a) any code of practice issued under section 23M(1) applies to
     a person who is the developer, owner or occupier of any
     specified premises or relevant land; and

(b) the Postal Authority is satisfied that the person is
     contravening or has contravened (whether by act or
     omission) any provision of that code of practice,

the Postal Authority may issue a written order to that person for the
purpose of securing compliance with that provision.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) The written order under subsection (5) —

(a) must require the person concerned to do, or to refrain from
     doing, anything that is, or is of a description, specified in
     the written order; and

       (b) takes effect at the time (being the earliest practicable time)
            determined by or under the written order.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) The Postal Authority may vary, suspend or revoke the whole or
any part of a written order issued under subsection (5).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (8) A person mentioned in subsection (5) who, without reasonable
excuse, fails to comply with a written order issued under that
subsection shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Provision of space or facility, etc., by direction of Postal
Authority

 23O.—(1) Without affecting sections 23M and 23N, the Postal
Authority may give a written direction mentioned in subsection (2) if
the Postal Authority considers it necessary that —

       (a) any public parcel locker should be installed in or on any
            specified premises, whether completed or not; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
49  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

       (b) any relevant installation should be installed in or on any
            specified premises or relevant land, whether completed or
            not.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The written direction that the Postal Authority may give is any
of the following:

    (a) to require the developer or owner of the specified premises
         or relevant land (as the case may be) to provide, at the
         developer’s or owner’s expense and within the period
         specified in the written direction —

    (i) any space or facility in or on that specified premises
        or relevant land; and

    (ii) access to that specified premises or relevant land,

    (a) as the Postal Authority may specify in the written
         direction;

      (b) to require the public parcel locker network operator to
           install, within the period specified in the written direction,
           any public parcel locker or related installation in the space
           or facility mentioned in paragraph (a)(i) as the Postal
           Authority considers necessary.

                                                                                                         [10/2021]

(3) A written direction under subsection (2) may include —

    (a) a requirement that the public parcel locker network
         operator must contribute (wholly or partly) to any costs
         and expenses incurred for the provision and use of any
         space or facility mentioned in subsection (2)(a)(i) as the
         Postal Authority may determine;

    (b) terms and conditions relating to the payment of costs and
         expenses necessary for any alteration, removal, relocation
         or diversion of any public parcel locker or related
         installation that may subsequently be required;

    (c) a requirement that the public parcel locker network
        operator, or the developer or owner of the specified
        premises or relevant land, take any specified measure in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 50

          relation to the security and reliability of the public parcel
          locker network; or

       (d) any other requirement as the Postal Authority may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) To avoid doubt, the Postal Authority may give a written
direction under subsection (2) even though the written direction may
affect the contractual obligations of any person to whom the written
direction is given, whether the obligation relates to a contract made
before, on or after the specified day.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) No liability shall lie against any party to a contract made before,
on or after the specified day for or in relation to any breach of the
contract, where the breach is solely attributable to, or occasioned by,
the compliance by that party with any written direction given under
subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) Nothing in subsection (5) affects the operation of the Frustrated
Contracts Act 1959.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) The Postal Authority may vary, suspend or revoke the whole or
any part of a written direction given under subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (8) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with
any requirement in a written direction given under subsection (2)
shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Disputes as to compensation

 23P. If any dispute as to compensation arises under section 23G(3),
23H(2), 23I(2) or 23K(2), any aggrieved person may, by written
application, request for a determination by the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Public parcel locker network operator not liable to pay fee, etc.,
for right to enter or use land or premises

 23Q.—(1) Despite any written law, the public parcel locker
network operator is not, when exercising the powers conferred by

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
51  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

section 23G, 23H, 23I or 23K, liable for or required to pay any person
any fee or charge for the right to enter or use any land or premises.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Despite any written law, where the developer, owner or occupier
of any specified premises or relevant land is required, under a code of
practice issued under section 23M(1), to provide, maintain or give
access to any space or facility in or on the specified premises or
relevant land, the public parcel locker network operator is not liable
for or required to pay the developer, owner or occupier (as the case
may be) any fee or charge for the right to enter or use that space or
facility.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

                    Division 3 — Enforcement powers

Power of Postal Authority to deal with parcels, etc., in public
parcel lockers

 23R.—(1) Where the Postal Authority knows or has reason to
suspect that any parcel or other article or thing is or may be the
subject of, or is or may have been used in, the commission of an
offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, the
Postal Authority may, by written order, direct the public parcel locker
network operator —

       (a) to open and search any public parcel locker; and

       (b) to detain and open any parcel or other article or thing that is
            placed or found in the public parcel locker.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where a person is reasonably suspected of having committed an
offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, the
Postal Authority may, by written order, direct the public parcel locker
network operator —

       (a) to do all of the following:

               (i) open and search any public parcel locker;

              (ii) detain and open any parcel or other article or thing
                   placed or believed to have been placed in the public
                   parcel locker by that person; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 52

       (b) to prevent that person from placing any parcel or other
            article or thing in any public parcel locker.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) The public parcel locker network operator must, upon receiving
a written order made under subsection (2), comply with the written
order.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) A parcel, an article or a thing that is detained and opened under
subsection (1) or (2)(a) must be destroyed, returned to the sender or
dealt with in any other manner as the Postal Authority may direct.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

                                    PART 4

             CODES OF PRACTICE AND DIRECTIONS

Codes of practice, etc.

 24.—(1) The Postal Authority may, from time to time —

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice or standards of
            performance;

       (b) approve as a code of practice or standard of performance
            any document prepared by a person other than the Postal
            Authority if the Postal Authority considers the document
            suitable for this purpose; or

       (c) amend or revoke any code of practice or standard of
            performance issued under paragraph (a) or approved under
            paragraph (b),

with respect to all or any of the following:

       (d) the operation of postal systems;

       (e) the provision of postal services;

        (f) the activities and conduct of postal licensees in the
            provision of postal services;

       (g) agreements or arrangements between a public postal
            licensee and any applicable person or class of applicable

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
53  Postal Services Act 1999                                   2020 Ed.

    persons under which the public postal licensee delivers
    applicable postal articles to letter boxes;

    (h) competition, abuse of a dominant position in the market for
         postal systems or postal services and fair market conduct in
         the provision of postal services in Singapore;

    (i) the acquisitions or consolidations involving a postal
        licensee and any other person (whether a postal licensee
        or otherwise);

        (j) the carrying out of the purposes and provisions of this Act
            and for the due administration of this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) In subsection (1)(g), “applicable person” and “applicable postal
article” have the meanings given by section 7A(2).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) A code of practice may, in particular, specify the duties and
obligations of any person in relation to the person’s business
operation insofar as it relates to the provision of postal services.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) If any provision in any code of practice or standard of
performance is inconsistent with any provision of this Act, the
provision, to the extent of the inconsistency —

    (a) has effect subject to the provisions of this Act; and

       (b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, does not have
            effect.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) Where a code of practice or standard of performance is issued,
approved, amended or revoked by the Postal Authority under
subsection (1), the Postal Authority must —

    (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
         revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice or
         standard of performance in any manner that will secure
         adequate publicity for the issue, approval, amendment or
         revocation;

    (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) the date of
         issue, approval, amendment or revocation (as the case may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 54

          be) and the place at and the time during which the code of
          practice or standard of performance which is the subject of
          the notice may be inspected; and

       (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice or standard of
            performance remains in force, copies of that code or
            standard, and all amendments to that code or standard, are
            made available, free of charge, to the persons to whom the
            code or standard applies.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (6) No code of practice or standard of performance, no amendment
to an approved code of practice or standard of performance, and no
revocation of any such approved code of practice or standard of
performance, has any force or effect as an approved code of practice
or standard of performance until the notice relating thereto is
published in accordance with subsection (4).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (7) Any code of practice or standard of performance issued or
approved under this section does not have legislative effect.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (8) Subject to subsection (8), every postal licensee must comply
with the relevant codes of practice and standards of performance
issued or approved under this section.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (9) The Postal Authority may, either generally or for such time as
the Postal Authority may specify, waive the application of any code
of practice or standard of performance, or part thereof, issued or
approved under this section to any postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (10) In this section, “dominant position” means a dominant position
in any market for postal systems or postal services, whether in
Singapore or elsewhere.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Directions affecting postal licensee

 25.—(1) The Postal Authority may give directions to be observed
by postal licensees —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
55  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) to ensure the reliability of the provision of any postal
         service to the public;

    (b) to ensure fair and efficient market conduct by postal
         licensees;

    (c) to ensure the technical compatibility and safety of
        operation of any postal equipment or postal system;

    (d) to ensure the coordination and cooperation, on such terms
         as the Postal Authority may specify, with any other person
         in the use or sharing of any installation, plant or system, or
         part thereof, owned or used by the postal licensee for the
         provision of any postal service; or

    (e) in the public interest.

                                                             [34/2007]

 (2) The Postal Authority may also give directions to be observed by
a public postal licensee in relation to the implementation and
performance of any agreement or arrangement mentioned in
section 7A(1) under which the public postal licensee delivers
applicable postal articles to letter boxes.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

(3) A direction under subsection (1) or (2) —

    (a) must require the postal licensee concerned (according to
         the circumstances of the case) to do, or not to do, any
         things that are specified in the direction or are of a
         description as specified therein;

    (b) takes effect at such time, being the earliest practicable
         time, as is determined by or under that direction; and

       (c) may be revoked at any time by the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) Before giving a direction to any postal licensee under
subsection (1) or (2), the Postal Authority must, unless the Postal
Authority in respect of any particular direction considers that it is not
practicable or desirable, give notice —

    (a) stating that the Postal Authority proposes to make the
         direction and setting out its effect; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 56

(b) specifying the time within which representations or
     objections to the proposed direction may be made,

and must consider any representations or objections which are duly
made.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) Every postal licensee must comply with every direction of the
Postal Authority given to the licensee under this section.

Advisory guidelines

 26.—(1) The Postal Authority may make advisory guidelines about
any aspect of postal services and postal systems.

 (2) Advisory guidelines, for example, may be made about —

       (a) any matter in respect of which codes of practice and
            standards of performance may be made under section 24;
            or

       (b) the use, construction, design or performance of anything
            relating to postal systems or postal services.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) The Postal Authority must —

       (a) give a copy of each advisory guideline to the Minister; and

       (b) publish each advisory guideline in the way the Postal
            Authority thinks fit.

                                   PART 4A

     CONTROL OVER DESIGNATED POSTAL LICENSEES

Interpretation of this Part

 26A.—(1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “12% controller”, in relation to a designated postal licensee,
         means a person, not being a 30% controller, who alone or
         together with the person’s associates —

              (a) holds 12% or more of the total number of voting
                   shares in the designated postal licensee; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
57  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) is in a position to control 12% or more of the voting
         power in the designated postal licensee;

    “30% controller”, in relation to a designated postal licensee,
       means a person who alone or together with the person’s
       associates —

    (a) holds 30% or more of the total number of voting
         shares in the designated postal licensee; or

    (b) is in a position to control 30% or more of the voting
         power in the designated postal licensee;

    “associate” has the meaning given to that expression in
       regulations made under section 26H;

    “consolidation” means any transaction —

    (a) that results in a person —

    (i) becoming a 30% controller of a designated
        postal licensee;

    (ii) acquiring the business of a designated postal
         licensee (or any part thereof) as a going
         concern; or

    (iii) obtaining effective control over a designated
          postal licensee; or

    (b) that is prescribed by regulations made under
         section 26H, or that falls within a class of
         transactions prescribed in such regulations;

    “designated postal licensee” means a postal licensee —

    (a) which has been declared by the Postal Authority, by
         notification in the Gazette, to be a designated postal
         licensee for the purposes of this Part; or

    (b) which is within a class of postal licensees which has
         been declared by the Postal Authority, by notification
         in the Gazette, to be a designated class of postal
         licensees for the purposes of this Part;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 58

“effective control” has the meaning given to it in the code of
   practice mentioned in section 26C;

“share” includes stock except where a distinction between stock
   and shares is expressed or implied;

“treasury share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

      “voting share” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
         Companies Act 1967, but does not include a treasury share.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) In relation to a designated postal licensee the whole or a portion
of the share capital of which consists of stock, an interest of a person
in any such stock is deemed to be an interest in an issued share in the
designated postal licensee having the same nominal amount as the
amount of that stock and having attached to it the same rights as are
attached to that stock.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) The Postal Authority may, by notification in the Gazette, vary or
revoke any declaration of a designated postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Control of acquisition of designated postal licensee

 26B.—(1) A designated postal licensee must give written notice, in
the prescribed manner and within the prescribed period, to the Postal
Authority on the occasion when a person, whether by a series of
transactions over a period of time or otherwise —

       (a) first acquires 5% or more but less than 12% of the voting
            shares in the designated postal licensee; or

       (b) first controls 5% or more but less than 12% of the voting
            power in the designated postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Subject to subsection (4), a person must not, whether through a
series of transactions over a period of time or otherwise, become a
12% controller or a 30% controller of a designated postal licensee
without obtaining the prior written approval of the Postal Authority in
the prescribed manner and within the prescribed period.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
59  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) A person must not enter into any other transaction that
constitutes a consolidation with a designated postal licensee
without obtaining the prior written approval of the Postal Authority
in the prescribed manner and within the prescribed period.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) To the extent that the holding of any shares or control of any
voting power in a designated postal licensee under subsection (2)
constitutes a consolidation with that designated postal licensee, the
person and the designated postal licensee must, in addition to the
approval required under that subsection, obtain the prior written
approval of the Postal Authority in the prescribed manner and within
the prescribed period.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Power to issue code of practice relating to control of designated
postal licensee

 26C.—(1) Without limiting section 24, the Postal Authority may
issue a code of practice under that section which specifies such
matters as are generally necessary for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Part and for the due administration thereof.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Postal Authority may
specify in the code of practice —

       (a) the circumstances under which a person would be
            considered to have entered into a consolidation with a
            designated postal licensee;

       (b) the categories of persons that must obtain the prior written
            approval of the Postal Authority for —

               (i) any consolidation with a designated postal licensee;
                   or

              (ii) an acquisition of the business of a designated postal
                   licensee or part thereof;

       (c) the duties and obligations of a designated postal licensee
            and a person acquiring the business or part thereof as a
            going concern, holding any voting shares or controlling the
            voting power of a designated postal licensee;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 60

(d) the rules and procedures that a designated postal licensee
     and a person acquiring the business or part thereof as a
     going concern, holding any voting shares or controlling the
     voting power of a designated postal licensee must comply
     with; and

          (e) the terms and conditions which the Postal Authority may
              impose in granting any written approval under section 26B.

                                                                                                          [34/2007]

Power to issue directions

 26D.—(1) Without limiting section 25, if the Postal Authority is
satisfied that a person —

       (a) holds any voting shares or controls the voting power of a
            designated postal licensee; or

       (b) has entered into a consolidation with a designated postal
            licensee,

(called in this section the specified person), in contravention of
section 26B(2), (3) or (4), or that the holding, control, acquisition or
consolidation is likely to substantially lessen competition or is against
the public interest, the Postal Authority may issue a direction under
subsection (3) or (4), as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) The Postal Authority may issue a direction under subsection (3)
or (4) if the Postal Authority is satisfied that —

       (a) any condition of written approval imposed on the person
            under section 26B has not been complied with;

       (b) the person has provided false or misleading information or
            documents in connection with an application under
            section 26B to obtain the written approval of the Postal
            Authority; or

       (c) the Postal Authority would not have granted its written
            approval under section 26B had it been aware, at that time,
            of circumstances relevant to the person’s application for
            that approval,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
61  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

and the existing holding, control, acquisition or consolidation in the
designated postal licensee by the person is likely to substantially
lessen competition or is against the public interest.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) The Postal Authority may, under the circumstances specified in
subsection (1)(a) or (b) or (2), direct —

    (a) the designated postal licensee to do all or any of the
         following:

    (i) to restrict the specified person’s voting power in
        respect of the shares the specified person holds or
        controls in the designated postal licensee (called in
        this section the specified shares), unless the Postal
        Authority expressly permits such rights to be
        exercised;

    (ii) to restrict the issuance or offer of shares in the
         designated postal licensee (whether by way of rights,
         bonus or otherwise) in respect of the specified
         shares, unless the Postal Authority expressly
         permits the issue or offer;

    (iii) except in a winding up of the designated postal
          licensee, to restrict the payment of any amount
          (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
          respect of the specified shares, unless the Postal
          Authority expressly authorises such payments
          subject to such conditions as the Authority may
          specify; and

       (b) any specified person or an associate of the specified person
            to transfer or dispose of all or any part of the specified
            shares within the time and subject to the conditions that the
            Postal Authority considers appropriate.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) The Postal Authority may, under the circumstances specified in
subsection (1) or (2), direct any specified person to transfer or dispose
of all or any part of the business acquired from the designated postal

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 62

licensee within the time and subject to the conditions that the Postal
Authority considers appropriate.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) Before issuing a direction to any person under subsection (3) or
(4), the Postal Authority must, unless the Postal Authority decides
that it is not practicable or desirable to do so, cause to be given to that
person written notice of the Postal Authority’s intention to serve the
direction, specifying a date by which that person may make written
representations with regard to the proposed direction.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (6) Upon receipt of any written representation mentioned in
subsection (5), the Postal Authority must consider it for the
purpose of determining whether to issue the direction.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (7) Any person to whom a direction is given under subsection (3) or
(4) must comply with the direction and the direction takes effect
despite the provisions of any other written law or anything contained
in the memorandum or articles of association, or other constitution, of
the designated postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (8) The Postal Authority may vary or revoke any direction issued
under this section.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (9) Where a person is alleged to have contravened section 26B(2),
(3) or (4), it is a defence for the person to prove that —

(a) the person was not aware that the person had contravened
     the provision in question; and

(b) the person has, within 14 days of becoming aware that the
     person had contravened that provision, notified the Postal
     Authority of the contravention and, within the time
     determined by the Postal Authority, taken the actions in
     relation to the person’s shareholding or control of the
     voting power in the designated postal licensee that the
     Postal Authority may direct,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
63  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

but it is not a defence for the person to prove that the person did not
intend to or did not knowingly contravene section 26B(2), (3) or (4)
(as the case may be) except as provided in this subsection.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Power to obtain information

 26E.—(1) Without affecting any other provision of this Act, the
Postal Authority may, by written notice, direct any designated postal
licensee to obtain from any of its shareholders and to transmit to the
Postal Authority information —

       (a) as to whether that shareholder holds any share in the
            designated postal licensee as a beneficial owner or trustee;
            and

       (b) if the shareholder holds the share as a trustee, to indicate so
            far as he or she can, the person for whom he or she holds
            the share (either by name or by other particulars sufficient
            to enable that person to be identified) and the nature of his
            or her interest,

and the designated postal licensee must comply with that direction
within the time specified in the notice.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) The Postal Authority may, by written notice, require any
shareholder of a designated postal licensee to inform the Postal
Authority whether he or she holds that interest as a beneficial owner
or trustee, and if he or she holds the interest as a trustee, to indicate so
far as he or she can, the person for whom he or she holds the interest
(either by name or by other particulars sufficient to enable that person
to be identified) and the nature of his or her interest.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Any person who —

       (a) fails to comply with a notice under this section; or

       (b) in purported compliance of the notice, knowingly or
            recklessly, makes a statement which is false in a material
            particular,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 64

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction —

          (c) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
              $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
              3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
              to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
              part of a day during which the offence continues after
              conviction; or

(d) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
     the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
     exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
     which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                 [34/2007]

Appointment of chief executive officer, director, etc., of
designated postal licensee

 26F.—(1) A designated postal licensee must not appoint a person
as its chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its
board of directors unless it has obtained the prior written approval of
the Postal Authority.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Where a person has been appointed by a designated postal
licensee as its chief executive officer, its director, or the chairperson
of its board of directors without the prior written approval of the
Postal Authority in contravention of subsection (1), the Postal
Authority may issue a direction to the licensee to remove that person
as its chief executive officer, its director or the chairperson of its
board of directors, as the case may be.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) This section has effect despite the provisions of any other
written law or anything contained in the memorandum or articles of
association, or other constitution, of the designated postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) In this section —

      “chief executive officer”, in relation to a designated postal
         licensee, means any person, by whatever name described,
         who —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
65  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) is in the direct employment of, or acting for or by
         arrangement with, the designated postal licensee; and

    (b) is principally responsible for the management and
         conduct of any type of business of the designated
         postal licensee in Singapore,

    and includes any person for the time being performing all or
    any of the functions or duties of a chief executive officer;

    “director” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
       Companies Act 1967.

                                                             [34/2007]

Power of Minister to issue written order relating to acquisition
of assets, etc., of postal licensees

 26G.—(1) Subject to subsection (4), where a person acquires the
assets or business of, or shares in, a postal licensee (called in this
section the relevant person), and the Minister is satisfied that —

       (a) the relevant person is not a fit and proper person; and

       (b) it is not in the national interest to allow the relevant person
            to continue to own the assets or business of, or to hold the
            shares in, that postal licensee,

the Minister may issue a written order to the relevant person, the
postal licensee or both, directing the relevant person or that postal
licensee or both to do all or anything specified in subsection (2).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) A written order under subsection (1) may direct a relevant
person, a postal licensee or both to do all or any of the following:

       (a) to transfer or dispose of all the assets, business or shares
            acquired by the relevant person in the postal licensee
            concerned, within the time and subject to the conditions
            that the Minister considers appropriate;

       (b) to transfer or dispose of any part of the assets, business or
            shares acquired by the relevant person in the postal
            licensee concerned only in the circumstances that the
            Minister considers appropriate.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 66

 (3) If a written order containing any direction specified in
subsection (2)(a) or (b) concerning any shares in a postal licensee
is issued, then despite the provisions of any other written law or
anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association, or
other constitution, of the postal licensee, the following applies for so
long as those shares are not transferred or disposed of in accordance
with the direction:

(a) no voting rights are exercisable in respect of those shares
     without the prior and express permission of the Minister;

(b) no shares in the postal licensee may be issued or offered
     (whether by way of rights, bonus or otherwise) without the
     prior and express permission of the Postal Authority; and

       (c) no payment may be made by the postal licensee of any
            amount (whether by way of dividends or otherwise) in
            respect of those shares unless the postal licensee has the
            prior and express permission of the Minister to do so or the
            payment is upon the winding up of the postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) Before issuing any written order under subsection (1), the
Minister must, unless he or she decides that it is not practicable or
desirable to do so —

(a) give notice to the relevant person or postal licensee (as the
     case may be) of the proposed written order; and

      (b) consider any written representation made in accordance
           with the notice in paragraph (a) and not withdrawn.

                                                                                                         [34/2007]

(5) The notice in subsection (4)(a) must state —

(a) that the Minister intends to issue the written order; and

       (b) the period within which written representations may be
            made in relation to the proposed written order.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (6) Any person to whom a written order is issued under
subsection (1) must comply with the written order, and the written
order takes effect despite the provisions of any other written law or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
67  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

anything contained in the memorandum or articles of association, or
other constitution, of the postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (7) Any person who contravenes subsection (6) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
         $125,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
         3 years or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence,
         to a further fine not exceeding $12,500 for every day or
         part of a day during which the offence continues after
         conviction; or

    (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $250,000 and, in
         the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
         exceeding $25,000 for every day or part of a day during
         which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                     [34/2007]

Regulations for carrying out this Part

 26H.—(1) The Postal Authority may, with the approval of the
Minister, make such regulations as are necessary or expedient for
carrying out the purposes of this Part.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may
prescribe —

       (a) the circumstances under which a person would be
            considered to be an associate for the purposes of this
            Part; and

       (b) the circumstances under which a person would be or
            considered to be in a position to control a percentage of the
            voting power in a designated postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 68

          PART 5

          OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

          Division 1 — Offences relating to postal licensees,
                             postal services, etc.

                                                                   [10/2021]

Obstruction of public postal licensees

 27.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) while in any premises used for the purposes of the business
            of a public postal licensee, intentionally obstructs the
            course of business of the licensee; or

       (b) assaults or intentionally obstructs or incites anyone to
            obstruct or impede an officer or employee of a public
            postal licensee in the performance of his or her duties,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) A public postal licensee may require any person guilty of an
offence under subsection (1) to leave the premises used for the
purposes of its business and, if any such offender who is so required
refuses or fails to comply with the requirement, the offender may be
removed by an officer or employee of the licensee.

Intentional damage to installation or plant used for posts

 28. Any person who intending —

       (a) to prevent or obstruct the transmission or delivery of any
            postal article;

       (b) to intercept or to acquaint himself or herself with the
            contents of any postal article; or

       (c) to commit mischief,

damages, removes, tampers with or touches any installation or plant
or any part thereof used for posts belonging to a public postal licensee
shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
69  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

Protection of installation or plant used for posts

 29.—(1) A person must not, without the written approval of the
Postal Authority —

    (a) lay or carry any mains, pipes, conduits, circuits or wires in,
         along, through, across, over or under any street or place in
         a manner which is likely to interfere with or cause damage
         to any installation or plant used for posts; or

    (b) affix any placard, advertisement, notice or other thing in or
         on, or paint, tar or in any way disfigure any installation or
         plant used for posts.

 (2) Any approval under subsection (1) may be refused by the Postal
Authority or granted by the Postal Authority on any terms and
conditions that it may determine.

 (3) Where the commission by any person of an offence under
subsection (1) is due to the act or default of some other person, that
other person shall be guilty of the offence.

 (4) A person may be charged with and convicted of the offence by
virtue of subsection (3) whether or not proceedings are taken against
the firstmentioned person.

 (5) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is,
subject to subsection (6), a defence for the person charged to prove
that the person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due
diligence to avoid committing the offence.

 (6) Where the defence provided by subsection (5) involves an
allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person, the person charged is not, without
permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless,
within a period ending 7 clear days before the hearing, the person
charged has served on the prosecutor a written notice giving any
information identifying or assisting in the identification of that other
person that was then in his or her possession.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (7) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall, in addition to
the forfeiture of any equipment seized, be liable on conviction to a

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 70

fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to
a further fine not exceeding $1,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

Prohibition of false notice relating to public postal licensees’
installation or plant

 30. A person who, without the permission of a public postal
licensee, places or maintains in or on any house or place, belonging to
the person or under the person’s control, any word, letter or mark
which signifies or implies or may reasonably lead the public to
believe that the house or place is part of a public postal licensee’s
installation or plant, shall be guilty of an offence.

Damage to public postal licensees’ installation or plant

 31. A person who wilfully removes, destroys or damages any
installation or plant which belongs to a public postal licensee and is
used for posts shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 years or to both.

Compensation for damage caused to public postal licensees’
installation or plant

 32.—(1) A person who removes, destroys or damages, whether
wilfully, negligently, accidentally or otherwise, the installation or
plant which belongs to a public postal licensee and is used for posts
shall, in addition to any penalty for which the person is liable for an
offence under this Act, be liable to pay compensation for the damage
the person has done.

 (2) The compensation is recoverable by civil action or suit before
any court of competent jurisdiction.

 (3) Subject to subsection (1), any court before which a person is
charged with an offence under this Act may assess the compensation
payable under this section and may make an order for the payment of
the same.

 (4) Any order under subsection (3) may be enforced as if it were a
judgment in a civil action or suit.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
71  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

Unlawful operation of postal services

33. Subject to section 5, any person who —

    (a) conveys any letter or performs any service incidental to
         such conveyance without a licence granted under section 6;

    (b) collects, sends, tenders or delivers in order to be sent a
         letter without a licence granted under section 6; or

    (c) makes a collection of letters for transmission or
        distribution to or from any place through a postal
        licensee without a licence granted under section 6,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                             [34/2007]

Offences by officer, employee or agent of postal licensees

34.—(1) Any officer, employee or agent of a postal licensee who —

    (a) destroys or throws away any postal article or anything
         contained therein;

    (b) commits theft in respect of or dishonestly misappropriates
         or secretes any postal article or anything contained therein;
         or

    (c) except in obedience to an order under the hand of the
        Minister or the direction of a court or the requirement by
        the Public Prosecutor under section 20 of the Criminal
        Procedure Code 2010, wilfully opens or causes to be
        opened contrary to his or her duty any mail bag or postal
        article, or wilfully detains or delays or causes to be
        detained or delayed the mail bag or postal article,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                            [34/2007; 15/2010; 10/2021]

(2) Any officer, employee or agent of a postal licensee who —

    (a) fraudulently puts any wrong official mark on a postal
         article;

    (b) fraudulently alters, removes or causes to disappear any
         official mark on a postal article; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 72

          (c) being entrusted with the delivery of any postal article,
              knowingly demands or receives any sum of money which
              is not chargeable under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Subsection (1) applies only to postal articles which an officer,
employee or agent of a postal licensee has access to in the course of
his or her employment as an officer, employee or agent of the postal
licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) An officer, employee or agent of a public postal licensee
mentioned in section 11(1) who with fraudulent intent issues or
causes to be issued a document specified for use in connection with
the remittance of money through that public postal licensee shall be
guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Fraudulent sending of postal article

 35. A person who sends any postal article bearing any facsimile,
imitation or representation of postage stamps or purporting to be
prepaid with any postage stamp which has previously been used to
prepay any other postal article or which has otherwise been
previously used shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Fraudulent retention of postal article

 36.—(1) A person who —

       (a) except in accordance with this Act or unless authorised by
            the Postal Authority, wilfully retains or secretes or makes
            away with or keeps or detains or, when required by an
            employee of a public postal licensee, neglects or refuses to
            deliver up in the course of transmission by post any postal
            article or any mail bag containing any postal article; or

       (b) except in accordance with this Act or unless authorised by
            the Postal Authority, wilfully opens or causes to be opened

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
73  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    any letter which ought to have been delivered, or does any
    act whereby the due delivery of a letter to any person is
    prevented or impeded,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                             [34/2007]

 (2) Nothing in subsection (1)(b) applies to a person who does any
act to which that subsection applies where he or she is a parent, or in
the position of a parent or guardian, of the person to whom the letter is
addressed and the addressee is a minor or his or her ward.

Penalty for sending anything indecent, etc., by post

37. Any person who sends by post —

    (a) any indecent or obscene article or any postal article having
         any words, marks or designs of an indecent, obscene,
         scurrilous, threatening or grossly offensive character;

                                                                         [Act 30 of 2021 wef 02/11/2022]

    (b) anything which is likely to damage any postal article in the
         course of transmission by post or any postal equipment or
         injure any employee or agent of a postal licensee; or

    (c) except as otherwise provided by any regulations made
        under this Act, any explosive, inflammable, dangerous,
        filthy, noxious or deleterious substance, any sharp
        instrument not properly protected or any living creature
        which is noxious or likely to damage any postal article in
        the course of transmission by post or any postal equipment
        or to injure any employee or agent of a postal licensee,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                             [34/2007]

Penalty for making any facsimile, imitation or representation
of any postage stamp, etc.

 38.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) make, deal in, distribute or sell;

       (b) knowingly use for postal purposes or for the purpose of
            remitting or paying any money;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 74

          (c) have in the person’s possession without any lawful excuse;
              or

(d) make or, without any lawful excuse, have in the person’s
     possession, any die, plate, instrument or material for
     making,

any facsimile, imitation or representation of any postage stamp or any
document used by a public postal licensee in connection with the
remittance or payment of money.

 (2) A person must not make, issue or send by post any stamped,
franked or embossed envelope, wrapper, card, form or paper in
imitation of one issued by a postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) A person who contravenes or fails to comply with subsection (1)
or (2) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (4) Any stamp, die, plate, instrument or material found in the
possession of any person who has contravened or failed to comply
with subsection (1) or (2) may be seized by any employee of the
Postal Authority and forfeited by a Magistrate’s Court, and must be
dealt with as the Court directs.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Penalty for erasure of mark denoting used postage stamp

 39. A person who, with fraudulent intent, erases or removes from a
postage stamp any mark put or impressed upon the postage stamp
denoting that the same has been used, or sells or uses any such
postage stamp for postal purposes shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Division 2 — Offences relating to public parcel lockers, etc.

Obstruction of public parcel locker network operator

 39A. A person who assaults or intentionally obstructs, or incites
any other person to obstruct or impede, an officer or employee or a
contractor of the public parcel locker network operator in the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
75               Postal Services Act 1999                    2020 Ed.

performance of the duties of that officer, employee or contractor (as
the case may be) shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Intentional damage to public parcel lockers and related
installations

39B. A person —

    (a) who —

    (i) damages or tampers with any public parcel locker,
        related installation or related software; or

    (ii) removes or touches any public parcel locker or
         related installation; and

    (b) does so intending —

    (i) to prevent or obstruct the delivery or collection of
        any parcel;

    (ii) to intercept, or to acquaint the person with the
         contents of, any parcel; or

    (iii) to commit mischief,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                             [10/2021]

Protection of public parcel lockers and related installations

 39C.—(1) A person must not, without the written approval of the
Postal Authority —

       (a) do anything to interfere with or cause damage to any public
            parcel locker or related installation; or

       (b) affix any placard, advertisement, notice or other thing in or
            on, or paint, cover or in any way disfigure, any public
            parcel locker or related installation.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The Postal Authority may —

       (a) grant an approval under subsection (1) on any terms and
            conditions as the Postal Authority may determine; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 76

       (b) refuse to grant an approval under subsection (1).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall, in addition to the forfeiture of any equipment
seized, be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) Where the commission by any person (A) of an offence under
subsection (1) is due to the act or default of some other person (B), B
shall be guilty of the offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) B may be charged with and convicted of the offence by virtue of
subsection (4) whether or not proceedings are taken against A.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) In any proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it is a
defence, subject to subsection (7), for the person charged to prove that
the person took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to
avoid committing the offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) Where the defence provided by subsection (6) involves an
allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person (X), the person charged (Y) is not, without
permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless, within
a period ending 7 clear days before the hearing, Y has served on the
prosecutor a written notice giving any information identifying or
assisting in the identification of X as was then in Y’s possession.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Prohibition of false notice relating to public parcel lockers

 39D. A person who, without the permission of the public parcel
locker network operator, places or maintains in any premises or place
belonging to or under the control of that person any word, letter or
mark which signifies or implies or may reasonably lead the public to
believe that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
77  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) a public parcel locker or related installation is installed or
         located in or on those premises or at that place; or

    (b) any thing installed or located in or on those premises or at
         that place is part of the public parcel locker network,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                             [10/2021]

Offence to remove, destroy or damage public parcel locker or
related installation

 39E. A person who —

       (a) wilfully removes, destroys or damages any public parcel
            locker or related installation; or

       (b) wilfully destroys or damages any related software,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 years or to both.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Compensation for removal, destruction or damage of public
parcel locker or related installation

 39F.—(1) A person who removes, destroys or damages (whether
wilfully, negligently, accidentally or otherwise) any public parcel
locker, related installation or related software is, in addition to any
penalty for which the person is liable for an offence under this Act,
liable to pay compensation for the damage the person has done.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The compensation mentioned in subsection (1) is recoverable
by civil action or suit before any court of competent jurisdiction.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) Any court before which a person is charged with an offence
under this Act may assess the compensation payable under this
section and may make an order for the payment of that compensation.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) An order under subsection (3) may be enforced as if it were a
judgment in a civil action or suit.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 78

Unlawful operation of parcel lockers in or on specified
premises

 39G.—(1) A person (other than the public parcel locker network
operator) that provides or operates, or offers to provide or operate, a
parcel locker in or on any specified premises shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) In this section, “specified premises” has the meaning given by
section 23A.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Offences in relation to parcels placed in public parcel lockers,
etc.

39H.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), a specified person who —

(a) destroys or throws away any parcel placed in a public
     parcel locker or any thing contained in that parcel;

(b) commits theft in respect of, or dishonestly misappropriates
     or secretes, any parcel placed in a public parcel locker or
     any thing contained in that parcel; or

          (c) except in obedience to an order of the Minister or the
              direction of a court or the requirement by the Public
              Prosecutor under section 20 of the Criminal Procedure
              Code 2010, wilfully opens or causes to be opened contrary
              to the specified person’s duty any public parcel locker or
              any parcel placed in a public parcel locker,

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                                                   [10/2021]

 (2) A specified person who intentionally alters, defaces, obliterates
or removes any identifying mark on a parcel placed in a public parcel
locker shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
79  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) Subsection (1) applies only to parcels which the specified
person has access to in the course of the person’s employment as a
specified person.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) In this section —

    “identifying mark”, in relation to a parcel, means any mark on
       the parcel identifying the intended recipient of the parcel;

    “specified person” means any of the following persons:

    (a) an officer, employee or agent or a contractor of the
         public parcel locker network operator;

    (b) a delivery service provider or an officer, employee or
         agent or a contractor of a delivery service provider.

                                                                                           [10/2021]

Offence to retain or open parcel placed in public parcel locker

 39I.—(1) A person (not being the intended recipient) who, except
in accordance with this Act or unless authorised by the Postal
Authority, wilfully retains or secretes, makes away with, keeps,
detains or wilfully opens or causes to be opened any parcel that had
been collected from a public parcel locker shall be guilty of an
offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to an individual who does any act
to which that subsection applies where —

       (a) the intended recipient of the parcel authorises the
            individual to do that act; or

       (b) both of the following requirements are satisfied:

               (i) the individual is a parent, or in the position of a
                   parent or guardian, of the intended recipient of the
                   parcel;

              (ii) the intended recipient of the parcel is a minor or the
                   ward of the individual mentioned in
                   sub‑paragraph (i).

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 80

Offence to place prohibited item in public parcel locker

 39J.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person who places, or causes
to be placed, a prohibited item in a public parcel locker shall be guilty
of an offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who, at the time the
person places any thing in a public parcel locker or causes any thing
to be placed in a public parcel locker, does not know, and has no
reason to believe, that the thing is or contains a prohibited item.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) In this section, “prohibited item” means —

(a) any parcel which contains any indecent or obscene article,
     or bears any word, mark or design of an indecent or
     obscene or a scurrilous, threatening or grossly offensive
     character;

(b) any article or thing which is likely to damage any public
     parcel locker or any parcel placed in a public parcel locker,
     or injure any person using a public parcel locker;

          (c) except as otherwise provided by any regulations made
              under this Act —

          (i) any explosive, inflammable, dangerous, filthy,
              noxious or deleterious substance;

          (ii) any sharp instrument which is not properly
               protected; or

          (iii) any living creature which is noxious or likely to
                damage any public parcel locker or any parcel placed
                in a public parcel locker, or injure any person using a
                public parcel locker; or

(d) any other parcel or class of parcel prescribed.

                                                                                                 [10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
81  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    PART 6

    INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS AND
              NATIONAL INTERESTS

Right to conduct international business dealings

 40. For the purposes of the conduct of any international postal
service by a public postal licensee, and subject to this Act, the
licensee may enter into direct communication, arrangement and
agreement with the lawfully constituted postal authority of any
country or with any duly authorised international agency or
organisation concerned with postal matters —

    (a) for the purpose of providing facilities, fixing rates,
         arranging terms of payment or accounting;

    (b) for operational, engineering or administrative purposes; or

    (c) for any other purpose necessary for the proper fulfilment of
        its functions.

Government’s overriding international rights

 41.—(1) Nothing in section 40 is deemed to abrogate the right of
the Government at any time to determine its relations with any
country or with any international agency or organisation.

 (2) A public postal licensee must discharge its responsibilities and
conduct its business as to comply with and fulfil all international
agreements, conventions or undertakings relating to postal matters to
which Singapore is a party.

Liability for international financial obligations

 42. A public postal licensee is fully responsible for meeting all
financial obligations arising from the operation of any international
postal service and must settle accounts with other postal authorities.

Contribution by Government

 43. Where the Government considers it necessary that any postal
service of an exceptional nature should be provided, and where a
public postal licensee considers it uneconomic to provide the service
without contribution from the Government, the Government may

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 82

make any contribution towards the capital outlay necessary to
provide any such service as may be estimated by the licensee and
agreed to by the Government.

Provision of postal services for governmental, etc., purposes

 44.—(1) The Minister may direct a public postal licensee to
undertake and provide any postal services and facilities that may be
necessary for aeronautical, maritime, meteorological, governmental,
defence or other purposes.

 (2) Upon being so directed by the Minister, the public postal
licensee must provide the postal services or facilities mentioned in
subsection (1) and is entitled to fair and proper payment therefor.

Directions by Minister

 45.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Postal
Authority or any postal licensee, give to the Postal Authority or that
licensee any directions that the Minister thinks fit as to the exercise by
the Postal Authority or that licensee of its functions under this Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), if it appears to the Minister to
be requisite or expedient to do so —

       (a) on the occurrence of any public emergency, in the public
            interest or in the interests of public security, national
            defence, or relations with the government of another
            country; or

       (b) in order —

               (i) to discharge or facilitate the discharge of an
                   obligation binding on the Government by virtue of
                   its being a member of an international organisation
                   or a party to an international agreement;

              (ii) to attain or facilitate the attainment of any other
                   object the attainment of which is in the opinion of the
                   Minister requisite or expedient in view of the
                   Government being a member of an international
                   organisation or a party to an international agreement;
                   or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
83  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (iii) to enable the Government to become a member of an
          international organisation or a party to an
          international agreement,

the Minister may, after consultation with the Postal Authority or any
postal licensee, give any directions to the Postal Authority or that
licensee that are necessary in the circumstances of the case.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Any directions given under subsection (1) or (2) may include —

    (a) provisions for the interception or detention of any postal
         article in the course of transmission by post; and

    (b) provisions for the postal article to be delivered to any
         officer mentioned in the direction to be dealt with in any
         manner that the Minister may direct.

 (4) The Postal Authority and any postal licensee must give effect to
any directions given to it under subsection (1) or (2) despite any other
duty imposed on the Postal Authority or that licensee by or under this
Act.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (5) A postal licensee that, on or after 14 May 2021, contravenes any
direction given to the postal licensee under subsection (1) or (2) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1 million and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) The Postal Authority and any postal licensee must not disclose
any directions given to that person under subsection (1) or (2) if the
Minister notifies that person that the Minister is of the opinion that the
disclosure of the directions is against the public interest.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (7) The Minister may make grants to postal licensees for defraying
or contributing towards any losses which they may sustain by reason
of their compliance with the directions of the Minister under any
provision of this section.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 84

 (8) Any sums required by the Minister for making grants under
subsection (7) must be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                         [S 23/2025]

 (9) If any doubt arises as to the existence of a public emergency or
as to whether any act done under this section was in the public interest
or in the interests of public security, national defence or relations with
the government of another country, a certificate signed by the
Minister is conclusive evidence of the matters stated therein.

                                    PART 7

         ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND PROCEDURES

Power to require information, etc.

 46.—(1) The Postal Authority or any officer of the Postal Authority
authorised in that behalf may, for the purpose of conducting an
investigation or discharging its functions under this Act, by order —

       (a) require any person to provide the Postal Authority with any
            information in the person’s possession which relates to any
            postal service or postal system or the public parcel locker
            network or any part of the public parcel locker network;
            and

       (b) require any person who has in the person’s custody or
            under the person’s control any document which relates to
            any postal service or postal system or the public parcel
            locker network or any part of the public parcel locker
            network —

               (i) to provide the Postal Authority with a copy of or
                   extract from the document; or

              (ii) unless the document forms part of the records or
                   other documents of a court or public authority, to
                   transmit the document itself to the Postal Authority
                   for its inspection.

                                                                                                [22/2016; 10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
85  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The Postal Authority or any officer authorised by it in that
behalf is entitled without payment to keep any copy or extract
provided to the Postal Authority under subsection (1).

 (3) The Postal Authority or any officer authorised by it in that
behalf must at all reasonable times in the day have full and free access
to all buildings, places, books, documents and other papers for the
purpose of discharging the Postal Authority’s functions under this
Act, and may, without payment, inspect, copy or make extracts from
any such books, documents or papers.

 (4) The Postal Authority or any officer authorised by it in that
behalf may take possession of any books, documents or papers where
in the opinion of the Postal Authority —

    (a) the books, documents or papers may be interfered with or
         destroyed unless possession is taken; or

    (b) the books, documents or papers may be required as
         evidence in proceedings for an offence under this Act or
         any regulations made under this Act.

 (5) The rights conferred by this section include, in relation to
information recorded otherwise than in legible form, the right to
require the information to be made available in legible form for
inspection or for a copy or extract to be made of or from it.

 (6) The power under this section to require a person to produce a
document includes the power —

    (a) if the document is produced, to require the person, or any
         person who is a present or past officer of that person or is or
         was at any time employed by that person, to provide an
         explanation of the document; or

      (b) if the document is not produced, to require the person to
           state, to the best of that person’s knowledge and belief,
           where it is.

                                                                                                         [34/2007]

(7) A person who —

    (a) fails to comply with any requirement specified in any order
         under subsection (1);

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 86

(b) intentionally alters, suppresses or destroys any document
     which the person has been required under subsection (1) to
     provide or transmit; or

          (c) in providing any information required of the person under
              subsection (1), makes any statement which the person
              knows to be false in a material particular, or recklessly
              makes any statement which is false in a material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a
further fine not exceeding $50 for every day or part of a day during
which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) If a person is charged with an offence under subsection (7) in
respect of a requirement to produce any document or information
under subsection (1), it is a defence for the person to prove that —

(a) the document was not in the person’s possession or under
     the person’s control;

(b) it was not reasonably practicable for the person to comply
     with the requirement; or

       (c) the person had a reasonable excuse for failing to provide
            the information required.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (9) No person is by virtue of this section obliged to disclose any
particulars as to which the person is under any statutory obligation to
observe secrecy.

 (10) In this section, “document” includes any electronic record
within the meaning of the Electronic Transactions Act 2010.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Power to examine, etc.

 46A.—(1) An officer of the Postal Authority who is authorised by
the Postal Authority for the purpose of this section (called in this
section the authorised officer) may, for the purposes of investigating
an offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, do
all or any of the following:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
87  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) require any person whom the authorised officer reasonably
         believes to have committed that offence to provide
         evidence of that person’s identity;

    (b) require, by written notice, any person within the limits of
         Singapore, who appears to be acquainted with the facts or
         circumstances of the matter to attend before the authorised
         officer;

    (c) examine orally any person who appears to be acquainted
        with the facts or circumstances of the matter —

    (i) whether before or after that person or anyone else is
        charged with an offence in connection with the
        matter; or

              (ii) whether or not that person is to be called as a witness
                   in any inquiry, trial or other proceeding in connection
                   with the matter.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (2) A person examined under subsection (1)(c) is bound to state
truly what the person knows of the facts and circumstances of the
matter, except that the person need not say anything that might expose
the person to a criminal charge or punishment.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

 (3) A statement made by a person examined under subsection (1)(c)
must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the person;

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
        a language that the person understands; and

      (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                         [22/2016]

(4) A person who —

    (a) without reasonable excuse, fails to provide the information
         required of that person under subsection (1)(a);

    (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a notice
         issued to that person under subsection (1)(b); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 88

          (c) provides any information or makes any statement under
              this section which the person knows to be false or
              misleading in any material particular,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

                                                                                                           [22/2016]

Powers of arrest and search in respect of arrestable offences

 47.—(1) Any officer of the Postal Authority deputed by the Postal
Authority to act under this section or any police officer may arrest
without warrant —

       (a) any person found committing or attempting to commit or
            employing or aiding any person to commit an arrestable
            offence under this Act; or

       (b) any person against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that
            the person has been guilty of an arrestable offence under
            this Act,

and may search any person so arrested, except that no female is to be
searched except by a female.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Every person so arrested must, together with any article as to
which an offence may have been committed or attempted to be
committed, be taken to a police station.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) For the purposes of this section, offences punishable under
sections 28, 31, 34(1) and (4), 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 39B, 39E, 39H(1),
39I(1) and 39J(1) are deemed to be arrestable offences within the
meaning of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Powers of search and arrest in respect of offences under
section 33

 48.—(1) Whenever it appears to any police officer or any officer of
the Postal Authority authorised to act for it under this section that an
offence under section 33 is being committed or is about to be
committed or attempted or whenever it appears that any article is

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
89  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

concealed or deposited or contained in or on any vessel, aircraft or
vehicle or premises in contravention of those sections, the police
officer or the officer of the Postal Authority may, if he or she has
reasonable grounds for believing that by reason of the delay in
obtaining a search warrant the article is likely to be removed —

    (a) stop and examine the vessel, aircraft or vehicle or enter the
         premises and there search for and take possession of any
         article and of any book or document which is reasonably
         believed to have a bearing on the case; and

    (b) arrest any person being in the vessel, aircraft or vehicle or
         premises in whose possession the article may be found or
         whom the police officer or the officer of the Postal
         Authority may reasonably suspect to have concealed or
         deposited the article and may search any person so
         arrested, except that no female is to be searched except
         by a female.

 (2) Every person so arrested must, together with any such article, be
taken to a police station.

 (3) In this section, “document” has the meaning given by
section 46(10).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Powers of search and arrest in respect of offences under
section 39G

 48A.—(1) This section applies where it appears to any police
officer or any officer of the Postal Authority authorised to act for the
Postal Authority under this section (called in this section the
authorised officer) that —

       (a) an offence under section 39G is being committed or is
            about to be committed or attempted; or

       (b) any parcel is concealed, deposited or contained in or on any
            specified premises in contravention of section 39G.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) The police officer or the authorised officer may, if the police
officer or the authorised officer has reasonable grounds for believing

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 90

that by reason of the delay in obtaining a search warrant the parcel is
likely to be removed —

(a) enter and search the specified premises;

(b) take possession of any parcel or other article or thing, or
     take copies of or extracts from any book or document,
     which is reasonably believed to have a bearing on the case;
     and

       (c) arrest any person in the specified premises in whose
            possession the parcel, article or thing may be found or
            whom the police officer or the authorised officer
            reasonably suspects to have concealed or deposited the
            parcel, article or thing and may search any person so
            arrested, except that a woman must not be searched except
            by another woman.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) Every person arrested under subsection (2)(c), and every article
seized under subsection (2)(b), must be taken to a police station.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) In this section —

“document” has the meaning given by section 46(10);

“specified premises” has the meaning given by section 23A.

                                                                   [10/2021]

Powers of inspection, search, seizure, etc., in relation to public
parcel lockers

 48B.—(1) This section applies where there are reasonable grounds
to believe that any parcel or other article or thing is or has been placed
in a public parcel locker and —

       (a) the parcel, article or thing is the subject matter of, or is
            connected with the commission of, an offence under this
            Act or any regulations made under this Act; or

       (b) the continued presence of the parcel, article or thing in the
            public parcel locker is contrary to public security or public
            health.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
91  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) A police officer or an officer of the Postal Authority authorised
to act for the Postal Authority under this section may —

    (a) open and search any public parcel locker in which a parcel,
         an article or a thing mentioned in subsection (1) is believed
         to be placed; and

    (b) inspect, examine and seize any parcel, article or thing
         found in the public parcel locker mentioned in
         paragraph (a).

                                                                                                     [10/2021]

Disposal of letters or parcels seized in relation to offences under
section 33 or 39G

 48C.—(1) Where any letter connected with an offence under
section 33 is seized under section 48 or any other written law, the
Postal Authority may take any action as it deems appropriate to
deliver the letter to its intended addressee or return the letter to its
sender.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where any parcel connected with an offence under section 39G
is seized under section 48A or any other written law, the Postal
Authority may take any action as it deems appropriate to deliver the
parcel to its intended recipient or return the parcel to the person who
sent the parcel.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) Subsection (1) or (2) applies whether upon the conclusion of the
Postal Authority’s investigation into the offence or otherwise.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Disposal of articles, documents, letters, parcels, etc.

 48D.—(1) Subject to sections 23(3) and (5), 23R(4) and 48C, an
article, a document, a letter, a parcel or a thing produced, detained or
seized under this Act must —

       (a) where the article, document, letter, parcel or thing is
            produced in any criminal trial — be dealt with in
            accordance with section 364(1) of the Criminal
            Procedure Code 2010;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 92

(b) in the case of a letter or parcel that is not produced in a
     criminal trial — be delivered to its intended addressee or
     recipient or returned to its sender or reported to a
     Magistrate’s Court; or

       (c) in any other case — be returned to its owner or reported to
            a Magistrate’s Court.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where the report of any article, document, letter, parcel or thing
is made to a Magistrate’s Court under subsection (1)(b) or (c), the
Magistrate’s Court may order the article, document, letter, parcel or
thing, as the case may be —

(a) to be forfeited; or

       (b) to be disposed of in any manner that the Magistrate’s Court
            thinks fit.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) This section does not affect any right to retain or dispose of
property which may exist in law apart from this section.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Obstruction of police officer or officer of Postal Authority

 49. Any person who intentionally obstructs a police officer or any
officer of the Postal Authority authorised to act for the Postal
Authority in the execution of his or her duty under section 48 shall be
guilty of an offence.

No costs or damages or other relief arising from seizure to be
recoverable unless seizure without reasonable or probable
cause

 50.—(1) No person is, in any proceedings before any court in
respect of any equipment, article, book or document seized in the
exercise or the purported exercise of any power conferred under this
Act, entitled to the costs of the proceedings or to any damages or
other relief other than an order for the return of the equipment, article,
book or document or the payment of their value unless the seizure
was made without reasonable or probable cause.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
93  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) In this section, “document” has the meaning given by
section 46(10).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Composition of offences

 51.—(1) An officer or employee of the Postal Authority specially
authorised by name in that behalf by the Postal Authority may
compound any offence under this Act that is prescribed as a
compoundable offence by collecting from a person reasonably
suspected of having committed the offence a sum not exceeding
the lower of the following:

       (a) $5,000;

       (b) one half the maximum fine prescribed for that offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) The Postal Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations prescribing the offences that may be compounded.

General penalties

 52. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act for which no penalty is expressly
provided shall, in addition to the forfeiture of any article seized, be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to both and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding
$1,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

Saving of prosecutions under other written laws

 53.—(1) Nothing in this Act prevents any person from being
prosecuted under any other written law for any act or omission which
constitutes an offence under this Act or any regulations made under
this Act, or from being liable under that other written law to any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.      Postal Services Act 1999                             94

punishment or penalty higher or other than that provided by this Act
or the regulations.

(2) A person must not be punished twice for the same offence.

Jurisdiction of Courts

 54. A Magistrate’s Court or a District Court has jurisdiction to hear
and determine all offences under this Act and, despite anything to the
contrary in the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, has power to impose
the full penalty or punishment in respect of any offence under this
Act.

Offences by corporations

 55.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act, it is necessary to prove the state
of mind of a corporation in relation to a particular conduct, evidence
that —

(a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
     that conduct within the scope of the actual or apparent
     authority of the officer, employee or agent; and

(b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

                                                                   [10/2021]

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act or any
regulations made under this Act, a person —

(a) who is —

          (i) an officer of the corporation; or

          (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
               corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
               of the corporation in relation to the commission of
               the offence; and

(b) who —

          (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
              effect the commission of the offence;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
95  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the corporation; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
          type) would be or is being committed, and failed to
          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

       (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
            regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of the corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether
or not the corporation is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) In this section —

    “corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
       meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
       Act 2005;

    “officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
       partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
       officer of the corporation, and includes —

    (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 96

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) This section does not apply to or in relation to an offence under
this Act or any regulations made under this Act committed by a
corporation before 14 May 2021.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 55A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act or
any regulations made under this Act, it is necessary to prove the state
of mind of an unincorporated association or a partnership in relation
to a particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
            partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of the
            actual or apparent authority of the employee or agent; and

       (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act or any regulations made under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
                   member of its governing body;

              (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
97             Postal Services Act 1999                      2020 Ed.

    (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
          unincorporated association or partnership and in a
          position to influence the conduct of the
          unincorporated association or partnership (as the
          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would
          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of the same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be) and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof that the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

    (a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

    (b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
         regarding the admissibility of evidence.

                                                                                                     [10/2021]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 98

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) also does not affect the liability
of an unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under
this Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

              (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
                   or purpose.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (7) This section does not apply to or in relation to an offence under
this Act or any regulations made under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association or a partnership before 14 May 2021.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

                                    PART 8

                         GENERAL PROVISIONS

Appeal to Minister

 56.—(1) Any postal licensee who is aggrieved by —

       (a) any decision of the Postal Authority in the exercise of any
            discretion vested in the Postal Authority by or under this
            Act; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
99  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) anything contained in any code of practice or standard of
         performance under section 24 or 26C, or any direction of
         the Postal Authority given under section 25, 26D or
         26F(2),

may, within 14 days after being notified of the decision or direction or
the issue or approval of the code of practice or standard of
performance, as the case may be (or such longer period as the
Minister allows in exceptional circumstances, whether before or after
the end of the 14 days), appeal to the Minister in the prescribed
manner.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (2) Any person (other than a postal licensee) who is aggrieved by
any decision or direction of the Postal Authority given by or under
section 6(1), 9(1), 26B or 26D, may, within 14 days after being
notified of the decision or direction (or such longer period as the
Minister allows in exceptional circumstances, whether before or after
the end of the 14 days), appeal to the Minister in the prescribed
manner.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (3) Any person (other than the public parcel locker network
operator) who is aggrieved by —

    (a) any decision of the Postal Authority under section 23J(5),
         23M(8) or 23N(1)(a) or (5); or

    (b) anything contained in any code of practice issued under
         section 23M(1), or any direction of the Postal Authority
         given under section 23O(2)(a),

may, within 14 days after being notified of the decision or direction or
the issue of the code of practice, as the case may be (or such longer
period as the Minister allows in exceptional circumstances, whether
before or after the end of the 14 days), appeal to the Minister in the
prescribed manner.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (4) Any person who makes an appeal to the Minister under
subsection (1), (2) or (3) must, within the period specified therein —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 100

(a) state as concisely as possible the circumstances under
     which the appeal arises, the issues and grounds for the
     appeal; and

       (b) submit to the Minister all relevant facts, evidence and
            arguments for or against the appeal, as the case may be.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (5) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister under
subsection (1), (2) or (3), the Minister may require —

(a) any party to the appeal; and

(b) any person who is not a party to the appeal but appears to
     the Minister to have information that is relevant to the
     matters mentioned in that subsection,

to provide the Minister with all such information as the Minister may
require for the purpose of considering the appeal and making a
determination for resolving it, and any person so required to provide
such information must provide it in the manner and within the period
that the Minister may specify.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

 (6) The Minister may reject any appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with subsection (4) or (5).

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (7) Unless otherwise provided, where an appeal is lodged under this
section, the decision, direction or other thing appealed against must
be complied with until the determination of the appeal.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (8) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or reversing any decision or direction of the
Postal Authority or by amending any code of practice or standard of
performance.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

 (9) The decision of the Minister in any appeal is final.

                                                                                                           [34/2007]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
101  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

Exclusion of liability of public postal licensees and public
parcel locker network operator

 57.—(1) A public postal licensee shall not be liable in respect of
any injury, loss or damage suffered by any person by reason of —

     (a) any loss, misdelivery or delay of or damage to any postal
          article in the course of transmission by post;

     (b) any failure to provide or delay in providing any postal
          service or any equipment associated therewith or service
          ancillary thereto;

     (c) any failure, interruption, suspension or restriction of any
         postal service or service ancillary thereto or delay of, or
         fault in, any communication by post;

     (d) any loss of secrecy in communication arising from the use
          of any postal service; or

     (e) any wrong payment or delay in payment in connection with
         any remittance of money through the public postal licensee
         or any other irregularity in the document used in
         connection with the remittance,

which is due to the act or default of another person, or an accident or
some other cause beyond the control of the public postal licensee.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

 (2) Despite subsection (1), in the event of the loss of or damage to
any article enclosed in or forming part of a parcel or an insured postal
article, or the loss of any registered postal article while in the custody
of a public postal licensee, the licensee may pay an indemnity in
accordance with the provisions of the Convention regulating the
affairs of the Universal Postal Union or any international agreement
to which Singapore is a party.

 (3) The public parcel locker network operator is not liable in respect
of any injury, loss or damage suffered by any person by reason of any
of the following, which is due to the act or default of another person,
or an accident or other cause beyond the control of the public parcel
locker network operator:

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 102

(a) any loss of or damage to any parcel that is placed in any
     public parcel locker;

(b) the non‑receipt or late receipt by the intended recipient of
     any parcel placed in any public parcel locker;

          (c) the non‑collection or late collection by a delivery service
              provider of any parcel placed in any public parcel locker;

(d) the inability to use, or any interruption, suspension or
     restriction of the use of, a public parcel locker;

          (e) any loss of secrecy in communication arising from the use
              of a public parcel locker.

                                                                                                          [10/2021]

Exemption from distress and attachment

 58.—(1) The following are not subject to distress, and are not liable
to be taken under or pursuant to an enforcement order of a court in
any bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings against any person,
without the prior written approval of the Minister:

       (a) in relation to a public postal licensee — any installation or
            plant used for posts of the licensee;

       (b) in relation to the public parcel locker network operator —
            any public parcel locker, related installation or related
            software.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) Every installation or plant used for posts placed under, over,
along, across, in or upon any property by a public postal licensee
remains the property of the licensee whether or not it has become in
whole or in part a fixture.

 (3) Every public parcel locker and related installation installed by
the public parcel locker network operator remains the property of the
public parcel locker network operator whether or not it has become in
whole or in part a fixture.

                                                                                                           [10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
103  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

Service of documents

 59.—(1) Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, any
notice, order or document required or authorised by this Act or any
regulations made under this Act to be given or served on any person,
and any summons issued by a court in connection with any offence
under this Act or any regulations made under this Act may be served
on the person concerned —

     (a) by delivering it to the person or to some adult member or
          employee of his or her family at his or her last known place
          of residence;

     (b) by leaving it at his or her usual or last known place of
          residence or place of business in a cover addressed to him
          or her;

     (c) by affixing it to some conspicuous part of his or her last
         known place of residence;

     (d) by sending it by registered post addressed to the person at
          his or her usual or last known place of residence or place of
          business; or

     (e) where the person is a body corporate —

     (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other similar
         officer of the body corporate at its registered or
         principal office; or

     (ii) by sending it by registered post addressed to the body
          corporate at its registered or principal office.

 (2) Any notice, order, document or summons sent by registered post
to any person in accordance with subsection (1) is deemed to be duly
served on the person to whom the letter is addressed at the time when
the letter would, in the ordinary course of post, be delivered and in
proving service of the same it is sufficient to prove that the envelope
containing the notice, order, document or summons was properly
addressed, stamped and posted by registered post.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 104

Exemption by Minister

 60. The Minister may exempt any person or class of persons from
all or any of the provisions of this Act.

Regulations

 61.—(1) The Postal Authority may, with the approval of the
Minister, make regulations for any purpose for which regulations are
required to be made under this Act and generally for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the Postal Authority may, with
the approval of the Minister, make regulations for or with respect to
all or any of the following matters:

       (a) the classes and the conditions for the grant of licences by
            the Postal Authority;

       (b) the acceptance, transmission by post, detention and
            disposal of postal articles;

       (c) the supply, sale and use of postage stamps;

       (d) the import, manufacture, sale, supply and use of franking
            machines;

       (e) the limit of amount of money that may be remitted through
            a public postal licensee mentioned in section 11(1) and the
            manner and conditions under which such money may be
            remitted;

        (f) the articles or things which may not be transmitted by post;

       (g) the types of articles not to be treated as letters;

       (h) the manner of receiving, delivering, collecting and
            distributing mail bags and postal articles, including
            facilitating access for postal licensees to letter boxes;

        (i) the conditions and restrictions for the payment of
            indemnity for the loss of or damage to postal articles
            where indemnity is payable under this Act;

        (j) the registration of postal articles and the cases where
            insurance of postal articles may be required;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
105  Postal Services Act 1999                                 2020 Ed.

     (k) the installation, operation and maintenance of the public
         parcel locker network;

     (l) the fees and charges to be paid in respect of any matter or
         anything done, or any services rendered, by the Postal
         Authority under or by virtue of this Act, including a code
         of practice or standard of performance;

     (m) the waiver or refund, in whole or in part, by authorised
          officers of the Postal Authority of any such fees in the
          circumstances of any particular case;

     (n) the interest (such interest, if unpaid, to constitute a debt due
          to the Postal Authority and be recoverable as such) to be
          paid for late payment of any fees or charges prescribed
          under this Act.

                                                                                          [34/2007; 10/2021]

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                       Section 3B(1)

                         POWERS OF POSTAL AUTHORITY

 1. To grant licences for postal services and purposes connected therewith under
this Act and to supervise and enforce compliance with the provisions of such
licences.

 2. To give directions to any person granted a licence under this Act.

 3. To give directions to the public parcel locker network operator in relation to
the installation, operation and maintenance of the public parcel locker network.

 4. To levy such charges and fees for the granting of such licences and other
services provided by the Postal Authority as may in its opinion be appropriate.

 5. To regulate rates, charges and fees levied by operators of postal systems and
postal services and the public parcel locker network operator.

 6. To issue or approve standards of performance, codes of practice and advisory
guidelines relating to postal systems, postal services and the public parcel locker
network, or any other matter related to the functions of the Postal Authority.

 7. To regulate the interconnection of and access to systems of operators of postal
systems and postal services.

 8. To regulate the sharing of installation or plant used for postal services
between postal licensees.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.  Postal Services Act 1999                                 106

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 9. To control and regulate the management and allocation of numbering plans
and schemes for postal systems, postal services and the public parcel locker
network.

 10. To issue postage stamps and to control and regulate the provision of stamps
by postal licensees.

 11. To levy such rates, charges and fees and to decide such rates or
apportionment thereof as between itself and other foreign postal administrations
as may in its opinion be appropriate.

 12. To engage in conjunction with other statutory bodies or other foreign postal
administrations and international agencies or organisations for the purposes of
promoting postal systems and postal services.

                                                                                                [34/2007; 10/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               POSTAL SERVICES ACT 1999

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 42 of 1999 — Postal Services Act 1999

Bill            : 34/1999

First Reading   : 11 October 1999

Second and Third Readings : 23 November 1999

Commencement    : 1 December 1999

Note: Previously in the Telecommunication Authority of Singapore Act
        (Chapter 323, 1993 Revised Edition).

2. 2000 Revised Edition — Postal Services Act (Chapter 237A)

Operation       : 30 December 2000

3. Act 4 of 2003 — Customs (Amendment) Act 2003
   (Amendments made by section 26 read with item (16) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill            : 6/2003

First Reading   : 10 March 2003

Second and Third Readings : 21 March 2003

Commencement    : 1 April 2003 (section 26 read with
                      item (16) of the Schedule)

4. Act 34 of 2007 — Postal Services (Amendment) Act 2007

Bill            : 22/2007

First Reading   : 21 May 2007

Second and Third Readings : 16 July 2007

Commencement    : 24 August 2007

5. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 78 of the Sixth Schedule to
   the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                ii

Second Reading  : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 78 of the Sixth Schedule)

6. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                           Act 2016

   (Amendments made by section 97 of the above Act)

Bill            : 21/2016

First Reading   : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement    : 1 October 2016 (section 97)

7. Act 10 of 2021 — Postal Services (Amendment) Act 2021

Bill            : 5/2021

First Reading   : 5 March 2021

Second and Third Readings : 5 April 2021

Commencement    : 14 May 2021

8. 2020 Revised Edition — Postal Services Act 1999

Operation       : 31 December 2021

9. G.N. No. S 23/2025 — Revised Edition of the Laws (Rectification of Acts)
                                Order 2025

Operation       : 31 December 2021

Publication     : 16 January 2025

10. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill            : 18/2021

First Reading   : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement    : 1 April 2022

11. Act 30 of 2021 — Sedition (Repeal) Act 2021
     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill            : 23/2021

First Reading   : 13 September 2021

Second and Third Readings : 5 October 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               iii

Commencement   : 2 November 2022

12. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill           : 12/2026

First Reading  : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement   : 1 July 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             COMPARATIVE TABLE
         POSTAL SERVICES ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                    2000 Ed.
                   3A—(2A)
3A—(3)
   (4)                (2B)
   (5)                (3)
   (6)                (4)
                   6—(6) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2007]
—                     (7)
6—(6)              8—(4) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2007]
—                     (5)
8—(4)                 (6)
                   9—(3) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2007]
   (5)                (4)
—                     (5)
9—(3)                 (6)
                      (7)
   (4)             16—(4A)
   (5)                (4B)
   (6)                (4C)
16—(5)                (4D)
   (6)                (5)
   (7)                (6)
   (8)                (7)
   (9)                (8)
   (10)               (9)
   (11)            24—(1A)
   (12)
   (13)
24—(2)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   (3)   ii
   (4)
   (5)        (2)
   (6)        (3)
   (7)        (4)
   (8)        (5)
   (9)        (6)
   (10)       (7)
25—(2)        (8)
   (3)        (9)
   (4)    25—(1A)
—             (2)
26—(2)        (3)
   (3)        (4) [Deleted by Act 34 of 2007]
45—(5)    26—(1A)
   (6)        (2)
   (7)    45—(4A)
   (8)        (5)
   (9)        (6)
46—(6)        (7)
   (7)        (8)
   (8)    46—(5A)
   (9)        (6)
   (10)       (6A)
51—(2)        (7)
   (3)        (8)
—         51—(1A)
56—(3)        (2)
   (4)        (3) [Deleted by Act 22 of 2016]
          56—(2A)
              (3)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   (5)              iii
   (6)
   (7)                   (4)
   (8)                   (5)
   (9)                   (6)
[Omitted as spent]       (7)
                         (8)
                      62

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
