THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
            BUSINESS NAMES REGISTRATION
                               ACT 2014

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Business Names Registration
                     Act 2014

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
     1.  Interpretation
     2.  Administration of Act and appointment of Registrar of Business
     3.  Names, etc.
         Persons not required to be registered under Act
     4.

                                        PART 2

                                  REGISTRATION

 5. Requirement to register
 6. Manner and particulars of registration
 7. Registration by nominee or trustee
 8. Registration
 9. When registration must be refused
10. Registration does not confer ownership
11. Authorised representative
12. General power to cancel registration
13. Supplemental provision to sections 9 and 12
14. Cancellation for failure to renew registration
15. Use of business names
16. Reservation of business names
17. Restrictions on registration of business names
18. Change of registered business name
19. Change of residential address
20. Registration of change in particulars
21. Deceased registrants
22. Cessation of business
23. Cancellation of registration

         1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 2

Section   Restoration of registration
          Rectification by General Division of High Court
   24.    Rectification by Registrar on application
   25.    Rectification or updating on Registrar’s initiative
   26.    Request for copy of notice of registration, etc.
   27.    Electronic transaction system
   28.    Transitional provision for contact address
   29.    Disability of persons in default
   30.
   31.

                                        PART 3

                                 MISCELLANEOUS

32. Inspection
33. Power of Registrar to obtain further information
34. Restriction on undischarged bankrupt carrying on business
35. Offences and penalties
36. Evidence of carrying on business under business name
37. Composition of offences
38. Destruction or transfer of old records
39. Enforcement of duty to make returns
40. Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
41. Authority and its employees not liable
42. Service of documents, etc.
43. Regulations
44. Saving for other written law
45. Saving and transitional provisions

An Act to provide for the registration of persons carrying on business
  in Singapore and their business names.

                                                              [3 January 2016]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Business Names Registration Act 2014.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
                Business Names Registration

3               Act 2014                                    2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   [Deleted by Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

   “ACRA administered Act” means the Accounting and
      Corporate Regulatory Authority Act 2004 or any of the
      written laws specified in the Second Schedule to that Act;

                                                                          [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

   “authorised representative” means an authorised representative
      appointed under section 11(1);

   “Authority” means the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory
      Authority established under the Accounting and Corporate
      Regulatory Authority Act 2004;

   “business” includes every form of trade, commerce and
      profession, and any other activity, that is carried on for the
      purposes of gain, but does not include any office,
      employment or occupation;

   “business name” means the name under which a person carries
      on business;

   “certificate of confirmation of registration” means a certificate
      issued under section 8(2);

   “company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
      Companies Act 1967;

   “contact address”, in relation to an individual, means an address
      that meets all of the following conditions:

   (a) it is a physical address at which the individual can be
        physically found or contacted by post;

   (b) it is not a post office box number;

           (c) it is located in the same jurisdiction as the
                individual’s residential address;

                                                                          [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

   “corporation” means any body corporate formed, incorporated
      or existing in Singapore or outside Singapore and includes —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.                    Act 2014                               4

          (a) any company;

          (b) any limited liability partnership registered under the
               Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005; and

          (c) any foreign company;

“document” means —

          (a) any application, form, report, certification, notice,
               confirmation, declaration or other document to be
               filed or lodged with or submitted to the Registrar; or

          (b) any certificate, notice or other document to be issued
               by the Registrar;

“electronic transaction system” means the electronic transaction
   system mentioned in section 29(1);

                                                                       [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

“firm” means an unincorporated body of —

          (a) 2 or more individuals;

          (b) one or more individuals and one or more
               corporations; or

          (c) 2 or more corporations,

          who have entered into partnership with one another with a
          view to carrying on business for profit;

“foreign company” has the meaning given by section 4(1) of the
   Companies Act 1967;

“full name” or “name” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual registered under the
               National Registration Act 1965 — the name as it
               appears in the latest identity card issued to that
               individual under section 9 of that Act; or

          (b) in the case of an individual not registered under the
               National Registration Act 1965 — the name as it
               appears in the latest passport issued to that individual

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
   Business Names Registration

5  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

                or such other similar evidence of identification as is
                available;

                                                                          [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

   “individual” means a natural person and, where appropriate,
      includes —

   (a) an administrator, an executor, a liquidator, a trustee, a
        nominee, or a guardian of the individual; or

   (b) a donee or deputy appointed under the Mental
        Capacity Act 2008 in respect of the individual,

   having direct control or management of the business carried
   on by the individual;

   “individual proprietor” means an individual carrying on
      business as a sole proprietor;

   “inspector” means a person authorised in writing by the
      Registrar under section 32(1) to be an inspector for the
      purposes of this Act;

   “notice of registration” means a notice issued under
      section 8(1)(b);

   “register” means the register kept under this Act;

   “registered” means registered under this Act;

   “registered business name” means the business name in respect
      of which a person is registered under section 8;

   “Registrar” means the Registrar of Business Names appointed
      under section 3(2) and includes any Deputy Registrar or
      Assistant Registrar of Business Names appointed under that
      section;

   “residential address”, in relation to an individual, means the
      individual’s usual place of residence.

 (2) A person who has a place of business in Singapore is to be
treated as carrying on business in Singapore for the purposes of this
Act.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                   6

 (3) Despite subsection (2), a foreign company is not to be treated as
carrying on business in Singapore for the reason only that in
Singapore it —

(a) is or becomes a party to any action or suit or any
     administrative or arbitration proceeding, or effects
     settlement of an action, a suit or a proceeding or of any
     claim or dispute;

(b) holds meetings of its directors or shareholders or carries on
     other activities concerning its internal affairs;

          (c) maintains any bank account;

(d) effects any sale through an independent contractor;

          (e) solicits or procures any order that becomes a binding
              contract only if the order is accepted outside Singapore;

          (f) creates evidence of any debt or creates a charge on
              movable or immovable property;

(g) secures or collects any of its debts or enforces its rights in
     regard to any securities relating to such debts;

(h) conducts an isolated transaction that is completed within a
     period of 31 days, but not being one of a number of similar
     transactions repeated from time to time;

          (i) invests any of its funds or holds any property;

          (j) establishes a share transfer or share registration office in
              Singapore;

          (k) effects any transaction through its related corporation
              licensed or approved under any written law by the
              Monetary Authority of Singapore established under the
              Monetary Authority of Singapore Act 1970, and under an
              arrangement approved by that Authority; or

          (l) carries on any other activity that may be prescribed.

 (4) In subsection (3), “related corporation” has the meaning given
by section 4(1) of the Companies Act 1967.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
   Business Names Registration

7  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (5) A reference to a document being filed or lodged with the
Registrar is a reference to the document being filed or lodged with the
Registrar in such manner and form as the Registrar may determine.

 (6) For the purposes of sections 8(7), 12(4), 16(5) and 17(9) and
(10), any reference to the Minister includes a reference to such
Minister of State for his or her Ministry who is authorised by the
Minister for the purposes of hearing an appeal under that provision.

Administration of Act and appointment of Registrar of
Business Names, etc.

 3.—(1) The Authority is responsible for the administration of this
Act, subject to the general or special directions of the Minister.

 (2) The Minister may, after consulting the Authority, appoint —

       (a) an officer of the Authority to be the Registrar of Business
            Names; and

       (b) such numbers of Deputy Registrars and Assistant
            Registrars of Business Names from among the officers
            of the Authority, public officers and the officers of any
            other statutory body,

for the proper administration of this Act.

 (3) The Registrar is responsible for keeping a register of registered
persons and their registered business names, generally for the
carrying out of the provisions of this Act, and for the collection of
the fees payable under this Act and payment of all amounts so
collected into the funds of the Authority.

 (4) The Authority may give to the Registrar such directions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the
Registrar’s powers, functions or duties under this Act, and the
Registrar is to give effect to such directions.

 (5) The Registrar may, subject to such conditions or restrictions as
the Registrar thinks fit, for the purposes of the administration of this
Act, delegate to any Deputy Registrar or Assistant Registrar of
Business Names all or any of the powers, functions and duties vested
in the Registrar by this Act except the power of delegation conferred
by this section.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 8

Persons not required to be registered under Act

 4.—(1) The following persons are not required to be registered
when carrying on business in Singapore:

(a) any individual proprietor carrying on business under only
     the individual proprietor’s full name;

(b) any firm of 2 or more individuals carrying on business
     under only the full names of all the individuals;

          (c) subject to subsection (2), any individual or firm of 2 or
              more individuals carrying on any business consisting
              solely of the exercise of any profession that, under the
              provisions of any written law, can be exercised only by
              those who possess certain qualifications prescribed by the
              written law and whose names are registered or otherwise
              recorded in the manner prescribed by any written law;

(d) a person (A) in respect of or for whom another person (B)
     carries on business wholly or mainly as nominee or trustee
     if B has provided the particulars required under
     section 7(1);

          (e) any statutory authority or other body established by or
              under any public Act for a public purpose;

          (f) any institution, authority, person or fund specified in the
              First Schedule to the Income Tax Act 1947;

(g) any society registered under the Societies Act 1966;

(h) any society registered under the Co‑operative Societies
     Act 1979;

          (i) any mutual benefit organisation registered under the
              Mutual Benefit Organisations Act 1960;

          (j) any trade union registered under the Trade Unions
              Act 1940;

(ja) any platform work association registered under the
     Platform Workers Act 2024;

                                                                      [Act 30 of 2024 wef 01/11/2024]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
   Business Names Registration

9  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

   (k) the Public Trustee or the Official Assignee of the property
       of a bankrupt;

   (l) any foreign company carrying on business in Singapore
       that is registered under the Companies Act 1967 and
       carries on the business under its registered name;

   (m) any company carrying on business under its corporate
        name;

   (n) any limited liability partnership registered under the
        Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005 carrying on
        business under its registered name;

   (o) subject to section 42(3) of the Limited Partnerships
        Act 2008, any limited partnership registered under that
        Act;

   (p) any other person or class of persons for the time being
        exempted by the Minister under regulations made under
        section 43; and

   (q) any individual proprietor who carried on any business
        specified in the First Schedule to the Business Registration
        Act (Cap. 32, 2004 Revised Edition) immediately before
        3 January 2016 and who is alive and continues to carry on
        the same business on and after that date.

 (2) An individual or a firm of 2 or more individuals referred to in
subsection (1)(c), is required to be registered when carrying on
business in Singapore if regulations made under section 43 prescribe
that the exemption under subsection (1)(c) does not apply to such
individual or firm.

 (3) A person carrying on business in Singapore who is not required
to be registered under subsection (1), other than a person who is
specified in any of the provisions of subsection (1)(e) to (o), may
choose to be registered.

 (4) A person who is not required to be registered but chooses to be
registered is subject to and must comply with the provisions of this
Act for the period of time that the person is so registered.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 10

 (5) In this section, a reference to an individual or a person includes a
class of individuals or a class of persons, respectively.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

                                    PART 2

                              REGISTRATION

Requirement to register

 5.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, before a person carries
on business in Singapore, the person and the person’s business name
must be registered.

 (2) Where a person intends to carry on business in Singapore under
more than one business name, there must be separate registrations in
respect of the person and each of those business names, and any
reference to registration in this Act is to be construed accordingly.

Manner and particulars of registration

 6.—(1) An application for registration —

       (a) is to be lodged with the Registrar by an appropriate person;
            and

       (b) is to contain the following particulars:

               (i) the business name;

              (ii) the general nature of the business;

             (iii) the principal place of business;

             (iv) where the business is to be carried on by an
                   individual proprietor, the full name, identification,
                   nationality, residential address and contact address of
                   that individual proprietor;

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

              (v) where the business is to be carried on by a sole
                   proprietor that is a corporation, the corporate name,
                   registration number and registered office of that
                   corporation;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

11                       Act 2014                            2020 Ed.

    (vi) where the business is to be carried on by a firm —

    (A) the full name, identification, nationality,
         residential address and contact address of
         every partner of the firm who is an
         individual; and

                                                     [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

    (B) the corporate name, registration number and
         registered office of every partner of the firm
         that is a corporation;

    (vii) the full name, identification, nationality, residential
           address and contact address of every authorised
           representative, if any;

                                                                  [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

    (viii) the date or proposed date of commencement of
           business; and

    (ix) any other information concerning the person
         proposing to carry on business and the person’s
         business name that is prescribed.

 (2) The Registrar may, in any particular case, require the
application referred to in subsection (1) to be verified in such
manner as the Registrar considers fit.

(3) In subsection (1) —

    “appropriate person” means —

    (a) where the registration to be effected is that of an
         individual proprietor, that individual;

    (b) where the registration to be effected is that of a
         company, a director or a secretary of the company;

    (c) where the registration to be effected is that of a
        limited liability partnership within the meaning of
        section 2 of the Limited Liability Partnerships
        Act 2005, a manager of the limited liability
        partnership;

    (d) where the registration to be effected is that of a
         foreign company registered under Division 2 of

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 12

          Part 11 of the Companies Act 1967, an authorised
          representative of the foreign company as defined in
          section 366 of that Act;

          (e) where the registration to be effected is that of a firm,
              an individual who is either —

          (i) a partner of the firm; or

          (ii) an appropriate person specified in
               paragraph (b), (c) or (d) (as the case may be)
               in respect of any company, limited liability
               partnership or foreign company that is a partner
               of the firm; or

        (f) a registered corporate service provider who is
             authorised by, and is acting for, the person seeking
             to be registered under this Act;

                                                                       [Act 22 of 2024 wef 09/06/2025]

“identification” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual issued with an identity
               card under the National Registration Act 1965, the
               number of the individual’s identity card; and

        (b) in the case of an individual not issued with an identity
             card under that Act, particulars of the individual’s
             passport or any other similar evidence of identity that
             is acceptable to the Registrar;

                                                                       [Act 22 of 2024 wef 09/06/2025]

“registered corporate service provider” has the meaning given
   by section 2(1) of the Corporate Service Providers Act 2024.

                    [Act 22 of 2024 wef 09/06/2025]

Registration by nominee or trustee

 7.—(1) Where a person (B) carries on a business wholly or mainly
as nominee or trustee of or for another person (A), for the general
purposes of the business in Singapore, B must, in addition to the
particulars required by section 6, provide such particulars as may be
prescribed.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

13  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) A person must not carry on business in Singapore as nominee or
trustee of a foreign company.

Registration

 8.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, upon receiving an
application for registration under section 6, the Registrar must —

       (a) register the applicant and the applicant’s business name;
            and

       (b) issue the applicant a notice of registration stating the
            registered business name and date on which the applicant is
            registered.

 (2) The Registrar may, upon receiving an application lodged by a
person registered under subsection (1) and the prescribed fee, issue a
certificate of confirmation of the registration of the person and the
person’s business name in such form as the Registrar may determine.

 (3) Every registration is valid for such period as the Registrar may
specify and, subject to the provisions of this Act and upon payment of
the prescribed fee, is renewable for such period as the Registrar may
approve.

 (4) On receiving an application for the renewal of registration, the
Registrar may require additional particulars or other information
from the applicant and may refuse to renew the registration if the
Registrar is not provided with those particulars or information.

 (5) The Registrar is not required to register any person and the
person’s business name, or renew any registration, if the Registrar is
not satisfied with the particulars or other information provided under
the provisions of this Act.

 (6) The registration or renewal of registration of a person and the
person’s business name is not to be taken to imply that the person, or
any person employed by the person, has complied with the
requirements of any law in relation to any business carried on by
that person.

 (7) Subject to section 13(2), any person who is aggrieved by the
Registrar’s refusal under this Act —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 14

(a) to register the person and the person’s business name; or

(b) to renew the registration of the person and the person’s
     business name,

may, within 30 days after the date the person is notified of that refusal,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

When registration must be refused

 9. Despite any provision in this Act or any other written law, but
subject to a right of appeal under section 8(7) (if any), the Registrar
must refuse to register a person and the person’s business name under
this Act where the Registrar is satisfied that —

       (a) the business is likely to be used for an unlawful purpose or
            for purposes prejudicial to public peace, welfare or good
            order in Singapore;

       (b) it would be contrary to the national security or interest for
            the person to be registered; or

       (c) the person is a foreign company that is not registered under
            Division 2 of Part 11 of the Companies Act 1967.

Registration does not confer ownership

 10.—(1) The registration of a person in respect of any business
name does not confer on the person any property in the registered
business name, or in any word or expression that constitutes or is
included in the registered business name.

 (2) The registration of a person is not to be taken as evidence that
the person so registered owns any property or right or interest in any
property held on account of, or used for the purposes of, the business.

Authorised representative

 11.—(1) Where an individual proprietor, all the partners of a firm or
all the officers of a foreign company (as the case may be) does not or
do not reside in Singapore (either at or after the time the individual
proprietor, firm or foreign company was registered), the individual
proprietor, firm or foreign company must appoint, within the time
specified in subsection (3), (4) or (11), whichever is applicable, at

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

15                         Act 2014                          2020 Ed.

least one authorised representative who must meet the criteria set out
in subsection (2).

(2) The authorised representative must be —

    (a) a natural person;

    (b) at least 18 years of age;

    (c) otherwise of full legal capacity; and

    (d) ordinarily resident in Singapore.

 (3) If at the time of registration the individual proprietor, all the
partners of the firm or all the officers of the foreign company (as the
case may be) does not or do not reside in Singapore, the authorised
representative must be appointed —

    (a) at the time the individual proprietor, firm or foreign
         company is registered; or

    (b) if the individual proprietor, firm or foreign company will
         carry on business in Singapore on a date after the date of
         registration, not later than the date on which the individual
         proprietor, firm or foreign company commences to carry
         on business in Singapore.

 (4) If the individual proprietor, all the partners of the firm or all the
officers of the foreign company (as the case may be) ceases or cease
to reside in Singapore at any time after registration, the authorised
representative must be appointed —

    (a) in the case of the individual proprietor, within 30 days after
         the date on which the individual proprietor ceases to reside
         in Singapore;

    (b) in the case of the firm, within 30 days after the date on
         which the last partner resident in Singapore ceases to reside
         in Singapore; and

    (c) in the case of the foreign company, within 30 days after the
        date on which the last officer of the foreign company
        resident in Singapore ceases to reside in Singapore.

 (5) The authorised representative is personally responsible for the
discharge of all obligations attaching to the individual proprietor, firm

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 16

or foreign company that is registered from the date of his or her
appointment.

 (6) In the case of any default in respect of any obligation referred to
in subsection (5), the authorised representative is subject to the same
responsibilities, liabilities and penalties as the individual proprietor,
firm or foreign company (as the case may be) and all the penal and
other provisions of this Act are to be construed accordingly.

 (7) The individual proprietor, firm or foreign company referred to
in subsection (1) must lodge with the Registrar a notice of the
appointment of the authorised representative, and a notice of the
consent of the authorised representative to be so appointed, within
14 days after the date of appointment.

 (8) The notice of appointment must contain the authorised
representative’s residential address and contact address.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

 (9) Where an authorised representative appointed under
subsection (1) —

(a) resigns, retires, dies or otherwise ceases to be an authorised
     representative for any reason; or

(b) ceases to be qualified as an authorised representative,

the individual proprietor, firm or foreign company referred to in
subsection (1) must lodge with the Registrar a notice that the
authorised representative has ceased to be, or ceased to be qualified to
be, the individual proprietor’s, firm’s or foreign company’s
authorised representative within 14 days after that event.

 (10) If the individual proprietor, firm or foreign company referred
to in subsection (1) fails to lodge with the Registrar the notice under
subsection (9), the former authorised representative may lodge a
notice with the Registrar that he or she has ceased to be, or ceased to
be qualified to be, the authorised representative for the individual
proprietor, firm or foreign company.

 (11) Where the sole authorised representative of an individual
proprietor, a firm or a foreign company appointed under
subsection (1) —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

17                     Act 2014                              2020 Ed.

    (a) resigns, retires, dies or otherwise ceases to be the
         authorised representative for any reason; or

    (b) ceases to be qualified as an authorised representative,

the individual proprietor, firm or foreign company must, within
30 days after the date on which the sole authorised representative
ceases to be, or ceases to be qualified to be, the authorised
representative, appoint a new authorised representative.

 (12) An individual proprietor, a firm or a foreign company that fails
to comply with a requirement under subsection (1), (7) or (9) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $1,000.

 (13) In this section, “officer”, in relation to a foreign company,
includes any director, secretary, manager, office holder or person
employed in an executive capacity.

 (14) For the purposes of determining whether a person (including a
partner of a firm) resides outside Singapore —

    (a) a corporation resides outside Singapore if the corporation
         is incorporated or formed outside Singapore; and

    (b) an individual resides outside Singapore if the individual’s
         residential address is outside Singapore.

(15) For the purpose of subsection (4)(b), a partner that is —

    (a) a company; or

    (b) a limited liability partnership registered under the Limited
         Liability Partnerships Act 2005,

ceases to reside in Singapore when it is dissolved.

 (16) For the purposes of subsections (9), (10) and (11), an
authorised representative ceases to be qualified to be an authorised
representative if he or she ceases to have full legal capacity or ceases
to be ordinarily resident in Singapore.

General power to cancel registration

 12.—(1) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a person and
the person’s business name if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 18

(a) the Registrar is satisfied that —

          (i) the business of the person is being used or is intended
              to be used for an unlawful purpose or for purposes
              prejudicial to public peace, welfare or good order in
              Singapore; or

          (ii) it would be contrary to the national security or
               interest for the person to continue to be registered;

(b) in connection with the person’s business, the person
     carrying on the business, or any other person appointed
     by that person to manage the business solely or
     substantially on that person’s behalf, has been convicted
     of an offence under the Charities Act 1994; or

          (c) the person required to appoint an authorised representative
              under section 11(1) —

          (i) fails to appoint an authorised representative within
              the period that the authorised representative is
              required to be appointed under section 11(3) or (4);
              or

          (ii) fails to appoint a new authorised representative
               within 30 days after the date that the person’s sole
               authorised representative resigned, retired, died or
               otherwise ceased to be, or ceased to be qualified to
               be, the person’s authorised representative as required
               under section 11(11).

 (2) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a person and the
person’s business name if the Central Provident Fund Board
established under the Central Provident Fund Act 1953 has notified
the Registrar that the person is a member of the Central Provident
Fund established by section 6 of that Act and has failed to comply
with section 9A of that Act relating to the payment of contributions
by that person to the Central Provident Fund.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 26/02/2024]

 (3) Before cancelling any registration under subsection (1) or (2),
the Registrar must —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

19  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) give the person notice in writing of the Registrar’s
         intention to cancel the registration;

    (b) specify in the notice a period of at least 30 days within
         which the person may make written representations to the
         Registrar; and

    (c) consider the person’s written representations (if any) to the
        proposed cancellation that are received by the Registrar
        within the time specified in the notice.

 (4) Subject to section 13(3), any person aggrieved by the
cancellation under subsection (1) or (2) may, within 30 days after
the date the person is notified of the cancellation or such further
period as the Minister may allow in any particular case, appeal to the
Minister whose decision is final.

Supplemental provision to sections 9 and 12

 13.—(1) For the purposes of sections 9(b) and 12(1)(a)(ii), a
certificate issued under the hand of the Minister charged with the
responsibility for internal security stating that the Minister is satisfied
that it would be contrary to the national security or interest for the
person named in the certificate to be registered or to continue to be
registered is conclusive evidence of the matters so stated.

 (2) Section 8(7) does not apply in a case where the Registrar refuses
to register a person under section 9(b) on the basis of a certificate
issued under subsection (1).

 (3) Section 12(4) does not apply in a case where the Registrar
cancels the registration of a person and the person’s business name
under section 12(1)(a)(ii) on the basis of a certificate issued under
subsection (1).

Cancellation for failure to renew registration

 14.—(1) If the registration of a person and the person’s business
name expires, the Registrar is to give written notice to the person that
the Registrar may cancel the registration unless the registration is
renewed within the period stated in the notice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 20

 (2) The period stated in the notice under subsection (1) must be at
least 30 days after the date of the notice.

 (3) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a person and the
person’s business name if the registration is not renewed within the
period stated in the written notice given under subsection (1).

 (4) A person and the person’s business name continue to be
registered after the registration of the person and the person’s
business name has expired unless the registration is cancelled.

Use of business names

 15.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person who is required to be
registered and is registered under this Act must not carry on business
under a business name other than the person’s registered business
name.

 (2) Subsection (1) does not prevent a person from carrying on
business under a business name if the person is not required to be
registered in respect of the business name under section 4.

 (3) The registration of a business name under section 8(1) does not
authorise the use of the registered business name if the use of the
registered business name is otherwise prohibited under any written
law or other law.

Reservation of business names

 16.—(1) A person may apply to reserve a name as the person’s
proposed registered business name by lodging an application with the
Registrar.

 (2) The Registrar may approve an application made under
subsection (1) only if the Registrar is satisfied that —

       (a) the application is made in good faith; and

       (b) the business name to be reserved is one in respect of which
            the person may be registered having regard to
            section 17(1), (2) and (3).

 (3) The Registrar must refuse to approve an application to reserve a
name under subsection (1) if the Registrar is satisfied that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

21  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) the name is for a business that is likely to be used for an
         unlawful purpose or for purposes prejudicial to public
         peace, welfare or good order in Singapore;

    (b) it would be contrary to the national security or interest for
         the business name to be registered; or

    (c) the application is by or on behalf of a foreign company that
        is not registered under Division 2 of Part 11 of the
        Companies Act 1967.

 (4) Where an application for a reservation of a name is made under
subsection (1), the Registrar must reserve the proposed registered
business name for a period starting at the time the Registrar receives
the application and ending —

    (a) if the Registrar approves the application, 60 days after the
         date on which the Registrar notifies the applicant that the
         application has been approved, or such further period of
         60 days as the Registrar may, on application made in good
         faith, extend; or

    (b) if the Registrar refuses to approve the application, on the
         date on which the Registrar notifies the applicant of the
         refusal.

(5) A person aggrieved by a decision of the Registrar —

    (a) refusing to approve an application under subsection (1); or

    (b) refusing an application under subsection (4)(a) to extend
         the reservation period,

may, within 30 days after being informed of the Registrar’s decision,
appeal to the Minister whose decision is final.

Restrictions on registration of business names

 17.—(1) Except with the Minister’s consent or as provided in
subsection (3), the Registrar must refuse to register a person under
this Act to carry on business under a business name, or refuse to
approve a change of registered business name under section 18 to a
business name that, in the Registrar’s opinion —

       (a) is undesirable;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 22

(b) is identical to any other registered business name, or the
     name of any corporation or limited partnership;

          (c) is identical to a name that is reserved under section 16 of
              this Act, section 27(12B), section 27(12B) as applied by
              section 357(2), or section 378(15) of the Companies
              Act 1967, section 23(4) of the Limited Liability
              Partnerships Act 2005 or section 17(4) of the Limited
              Partnerships Act 2008; or

       (d) is a name of a kind that the Minister has directed the
            Registrar, by notification in the Gazette, not to accept for
            registration.

                                                                                                           [15/2017]

 (2) In addition to subsection (1), the Registrar must, except with the
Minister’s consent, refuse to register a person (A) under a business
name, or refuse to allow A to change A’s registered business name to a
business name, if —

(a) it is identical to the business name of a person (B) whose
     registration and registration of that business name has been
     cancelled under this Act or has ceased under section 22,
     unless a period of at least one year has passed after the date
     of cancellation or cessation;

(b) it is identical to the name of a company that was
     dissolved —

          (i) unless, in a case where the company was dissolved
              following its winding up under Part 8 of the
              Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution
              Act 2018, a period of at least 2 years has passed
              after the date of dissolution; or

          (ii) unless, in a case where the company was dissolved
               following its name being struck off the register kept
               under the Companies Act 1967 under section 344 or
               344A of that Act, a period of at least 6 years has
               passed after the date of dissolution;

          (c) it is identical to the name of a foreign company notice of
              the dissolution of which has been given to the Registrar

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

23  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    under section 377(2) of the Companies Act 1967, unless a
    period of at least 2 years has passed after the date of
    dissolution;

    (d) it is identical to the name of a limited liability partnership
         that was dissolved —

    (i) unless, in a case where the limited liability
        partnership was dissolved following its winding up
        under section 39 of, and the Fifth Schedule to, the
        Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2005, a period of
        at least 2 years has passed after the date of
        dissolution; or

    (ii) unless, in a case where the limited liability
         partnership was dissolved following its name being
         struck off the register under section 63 of the Limited
         Liability Partnerships Act 2005, a period of at least
         6 years has passed after the date of dissolution; or

    (e) it is identical to the name of a limited partnership that was
        cancelled or dissolved —

    (i) unless, in a case where the registration of the limited
        partnership was cancelled under section 14(1) or
        19(4) of the Limited Partnerships Act 2008, a period
        of at least one year has passed after the date of
        cancellation; or

              (ii) unless, in a case where notice was lodged with the
                   Registrar of Limited Partnerships that the limited
                   partnership was dissolved under section 19(2) of the
                   Limited Partnerships Act 2008, a period of at least
                   one year has passed after the date of dissolution.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (3) Despite subsection (1), the Registrar may register a person
under —

    (a) a business name that is identical to the name of a foreign
         company registered under Division 2 of Part 11 of the
         Companies Act 1967 —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 24

          (i) in respect of which notice was lodged under
              section 377(1) of the Companies Act 1967 that the
              foreign company has ceased to have a place of
              business in Singapore or ceased to carry on business
              in Singapore, if a period of at least 3 months has
              passed after the date of cessation; and

          (ii) the name of which was struck off the register under
               the Companies Act 1967 under section 377(8), (9) or
               (10) of that Act, if a period of at least 6 years has
               passed after the date the name was so struck off; or

(b) a business name that is identical to the name of a limited
     partnership in respect of which notice was lodged under
     section 19(1) of the Limited Partnerships Act 2008 that the
     limited partnership ceased to carry on business in
     Singapore, if a period of at least one year has passed
     after the date of cessation.

 (4) Despite this section and section 18, where the Registrar is
satisfied that a person’s registered business name —

(a) is one that is not permitted to be registered under
     subsection (1)(a), (b) or (d);

(b) is one that is not permitted to be registered under
     subsection (2) until the expiry of the relevant period
     referred to in that subsection;

          (c) is one that is permitted to be registered under
              subsection (3) only after the expiry of the relevant period
              referred to in that subsection;

(d) so nearly resembles the name of any corporation or limited
     partnership, or any registered business name, as to be likely
     to be mistaken for it; or

          (e) is one the use of which has been restrained by an injunction
              granted under the Trade Marks Act 1998,

the Registrar may direct the person to change the person’s registered
business name, and the person must comply with the direction within

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

25  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

6 weeks after the date of the direction or such longer period as the
Registrar may allow in any case.

 (5) The Registrar’s power under subsection (4) to direct a person to
change the person’s registered business name applies regardless of —

    (a) whether the person’s business name was registered through
         inadvertence or otherwise; or

    (b) when the person was registered, or treated as being
         registered, in respect of the business name.

 (6) Any person may apply, in writing, to the Registrar to give a
direction to any other person, on a ground referred to in
subsection (4), to change that other person’s registered business
name.

 (7) The Registrar is not to consider any application under
subsection (6) to give a direction to a person on the ground
referred to in subsection (4)(d) unless the Registrar receives the
application within 12 months after the date the person was registered
in respect of the business name, or the date the change of registered
business name was approved under section 18.

 (8) The Registrar may cancel the registration of a person and the
person’s business name if the person fails to comply with a direction
given under subsection (4).

(9) A person aggrieved by —

    (a) a direction of the Registrar under subsection (4); or

    (b) the Registrar’s refusal to give a direction to a person under
         subsection (4) following an application under
         subsection (6),

may, within 30 days after being informed of the Registrar’s direction
or refusal (as the case may be), appeal to the Minister whose decision
is final.

 (10) To avoid doubt, where the Registrar makes a direction under
subsection (4) or the Minister makes a decision on an appeal under
subsection (9), the Registrar or the Minister (as the case may be) must

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 26

accept as correct any decision of the General Division of the High
Court to grant an injunction referred to in subsection (4)(e).

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Change of registered business name

 18.—(1) An application by a person to change the person’s
registered business name is to be lodged with the Registrar.

 (2) Upon the approval of the application, the Registrar is to issue to
the applicant a notice of change of registered business name stating
the date of the change.

 (3) Any application for a change of a registered business name is
subject to section 17.

Change of residential address

 19.—(1) An individual who —

       (a) is a registered individual proprietor;

       (b) is a partner of a registered firm; or

       (c) is an authorised representative,

must lodge with the Registrar a notice of the individual’s new
residential address within 14 days after the date of change.

 (2) Where the individual referred to in subsection (1) has changed
his or her residential address and has made a report of the change
under section 10 of the National Registration Act 1965, the individual
is to be taken to have informed the Registrar of the change of
residential address in compliance with subsection (1).

Registration of change in particulars

 20.—(1) Whenever a change is made or occurs in any of the
particulars registered in respect of any person, that person must,
within 14 days after the change, or such further period as the Registrar
may on application allow, lodge with the Registrar a notice specifying
the nature and date of the change, and containing such other
information as may be prescribed.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a change of particulars does
not include —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

27  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) a change of the residential address of any —

    (i) registered individual proprietor;

    (ii) partner of a registered firm who is an individual; or

    (iii) authorised representative; or

    (b) a change of a registered business name.

 (3) Without limiting subsection (1), where a person ceases to be a
partner of a registered firm, that person and the persons who continue
to be registered as partners of the firm must, within 14 days after the
cessation, lodge with the Registrar a notice of the cessation.

 (4) Where any person required to lodge the notice referred to in
subsection (3) cannot be located or found, the Registrar may allow the
other persons who are required to do so to lodge the notice.

 (5) The Registrar may require any notice required by this section to
be verified in such manner and by such person as the Registrar
considers fit.

Deceased registrants

 21.—(1) Where a registered individual proprietor or a partner of a
registered firm who is an individual dies, the Registrar may permit the
personal representative of the deceased, or a person who in the
Registrar’s opinion would be entitled to apply to court for an order for
the administration by the court of the deceased’s estate —

       (a) to lodge any notice referred to in section 20(1) on behalf of
            the deceased person;

       (b) to lodge any notice to be lodged under section 20(3) on
            behalf of the deceased partner, together with the other
            persons registered as partners; or

       (c) to lodge the notice referred to in section 22(1).

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person who claims to be the
personal representative of a deceased or to be entitled to apply to
court for the order for the administration by the court of the
deceased’s estate must provide such evidence as may be acceptable to
the Registrar.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.               Act 2014                                    28

Cessation of business

 22.—(1) Where a registered person stops carrying on business in
Singapore under a registered business name, the registered person
must, within 14 days after so stopping, lodge with the Registrar a
notice that he or she has stopped carrying on business under that
registered business name.

 (2) The Registrar may, if the Registrar thinks fit, allow a registered
person to lodge with the Registrar a notice notifying the Registrar in
advance that the registered person intends to stop carrying on
business under a registered business name on the date specified in the
notice.

 (3) Any registered person who fails to comply with subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000.

 (4) On receipt of the notice under subsection (1) or on the date
specified in the notice under subsection (2) (as the case may be), the
registration of the person and the person’s business name to which the
notice relates ceases.

Cancellation of registration

 23.—(1) Where the Registrar has reasonable cause to believe that
any registered person is not carrying on business in Singapore in
respect of a registered business name, the Registrar may give that
person a notice in writing stating —

       (a) that the Registrar proposes to cancel the registration of the
            person and the person’s business name; and

       (b) that any objection to the proposed cancellation must be in
            writing and delivered to the Registrar by a date specified in
            the notice, being a date at least 30 days after the date of the
            notice.

 (2) If the Registrar —

       (a) receives an answer from the person referred to in
            subsection (1) to the effect that the person is not carrying
            on business under the registered business name; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

29  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (b) does not, within 30 days after sending the notice referred to
         in subsection (1), receive a written objection to the
         proposed cancellation from the person referred to in that
         subsection,

the Registrar may cancel the registration of the person and the
business name in question.

 (3) Where the registration of a person and the business name in
question is cancelled under this section, any certificate or notice
pertaining to that registration is also to be taken to be cancelled.

Restoration of registration

 24.—(1) A person whose registration and registered business name
has been cancelled under section 12(2), 14 or 23, or whose
registration and registered business name has ceased under
section 22, may lodge an application with the Registrar to restore
the registration.

                                                                                 [Act 3 of 2024 wef 26/02/2024]

 (2) An application to restore a registration under subsection (1)
must be made —

       (a) within 12 months after the date on which the registration
            was cancelled or had ceased; or

       (b) within such longer time as the Registrar may in special
            circumstances allow.

 (3) Subject to any restriction against registration under section 9,
upon payment of the outstanding renewal fees and any prescribed late
renewal penalty, the Registrar may grant the application for
restoration subject to such conditions as the Registrar may impose.

 (4) If the Registrar grants the application under subsection (3), the
registration of the person and the person’s business name is to be
treated as if it had not been cancelled or had not ceased, as the case
may be.

 (5) Subsection (4) does not prevent the person from being
prosecuted and punished for an offence under section 35(1)(a).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 30

Rectification by General Division of High Court

 25.—(1) Where it appears to the General Division of the High
Court, as a result of evidence adduced before it by an applicant, that
any particular recorded in the register is erroneous or defective, the
General Division of the High Court may, by order, direct the Registrar
to rectify the register on such terms and conditions as seem to the
General Division of the High Court just and expedient.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) The Registrar must upon receipt of the order of the General
Division of the High Court under subsection (1) rectify the register
accordingly.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) An order of the General Division of the High Court made under
subsection (1) may require that a fresh document, showing the
rectification, is to be filed by the applicant with the Registrar together
with a copy of the order of the General Division of the High Court,
and a copy of the application for that order.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

Rectification by Registrar on application

 26.—(1) Despite section 25, a registered person or the registered
person’s authorised representative may lodge a notice with the
Registrar of —

       (a) any error contained in any document relating to the
            person’s particulars filed or lodged with the Registrar; or

       (b) any error in the filing or lodgment of any document
            relating to the person with the Registrar.

 (2) The Registrar may, upon receipt of any notification referred to
in subsection (1) and if satisfied that —

       (a) the error referred to in subsection (1)(a) is typographical or
            clerical in nature; or

       (b) the error referred to in subsection (1)(b) is, in the
            Registrar’s opinion, unintended and does not prejudice
            any person,

rectify the register accordingly.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

31  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) In rectifying the register under subsection (2), the Registrar
must not expunge any document from the register.

 (4) The decision made by the Registrar on whether to rectify the
register under subsection (2) is final.

Rectification or updating on Registrar’s initiative

 27.—(1) The Registrar may rectify or update any particulars or
document in the register, if the Registrar is satisfied that —

       (a) there is a defect or an error in the particulars or document
            arising from any grammatical, typographical, or similar
            mistake; or

       (b) there is evidence of a conflict between the particulars of a
            person and —

               (i) other information in the register relating to that
                   person; or

              (ii) other information relating to that person obtained
                   from such department or Ministry of the
                   Government, or statutory body or other body
                   corporate as may be prescribed.

 (2) Before the Registrar rectifies or updates the register under
subsection (1), the Registrar must, except under prescribed
circumstances, give written notice to the person whose document
or particulars are to be rectified or updated of the Registrar’s intention
to do so, and state in the notice —

       (a) the reasons for and details of the proposed rectification or
            updating to be made to the register; and

       (b) the date by which any written objection to the proposed
            rectification or updating must be delivered to the Registrar,
            being a date at least 30 days after the date of the notice.

 (3) The person notified under subsection (2) may deliver to the
Registrar, not later than the date specified under subsection (2)(b), a
written objection to the proposed rectification or updating of the
register.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 32

 (4) The Registrar must not rectify or update the register if the
Registrar receives a written objection under subsection (3) to the
proposed rectification or updating by the date specified under
subsection (2)(b), unless the Registrar is satisfied that the objection
is frivolous or vexatious or has been withdrawn.

 (5) The Registrar may rectify or update the register if the Registrar
does not receive a written objection under subsection (3) by the date
specified under subsection (2)(b).

 (6) The Registrar may include such notation as the Registrar thinks
fit in the register for the purposes of providing information relating to
any error or defect in any particulars or document in the register, and
may remove the notation if the Registrar is satisfied that it no longer
serves any useful purpose.

 (7) Despite anything in this section, the Registrar may, if the
Registrar is satisfied that there is any error or defect in any particulars
or document in the register, by notice in writing, request that the
registered person to whom the particulars or document relates, or the
registered person’s authorised representative, take such steps within
such time as the Registrar may specify to ensure that the error or
defect is rectified.

Request for copy of notice of registration, etc.

 28.—(1) A person may, upon payment of such fees as may be
prescribed, require a copy of a notice of registration, or a copy of or
an extract from any document filed or lodged with the Registrar, to be
given or certified by the Registrar.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

 (2) Any copy or extract given under subsection (1) that is certified
to be a true copy or an extract by the Registrar is, in any proceedings,
admissible in evidence as of equal validity with the original
document.

 (3) The Registrar is not required to issue, under subsection (1), a
copy of or an extract from a document forming part of the register
where that document has been destroyed under section 38.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

33  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (4) Subsection (1) does not apply to any document prescribed as an
excluded document for the purposes of this subsection.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

 (5) Where a document is submitted on or after the date of
commencement of section 24 of the ACRA (Registry and
Regulatory Enhancements) Act 2024 using a form on the electronic
transaction system, the reference to a document in subsection (1)
excludes the following entries in the form:

    (a) a means of notification provided by a person for the
         purposes of section 28A(1)(b) of the Accounting and
         Corporate Regulatory Authority Act 2004;

    (b) an individual’s date of birth obtained under this Act or
         section 28(1A) of the Accounting and Corporate
         Regulatory Authority Act 2004;

      (c) any other prescribed information.

                                                                             [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

(6) Where —

    (a) a document is filed or lodged with the Registrar under this
         Act by submitting a form on the electronic transaction
         system on or after the date of commencement of section 24
         of the ACRA (Registry and Regulatory Enhancements)
         Act 2024; and

    (b) an individual’s residential address is entered in that form,

the Registrar must cause the individual’s residential address to be
excluded from every copy or extract of that document given or
certified by the Registrar under subsection (1).

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

Electronic transaction system

 29.—(1) The Registrar may —

       (a) require or permit any person to carry out any transaction
            with the Registrar under this Act; and

       (b) issue any approval, certificate, notice, determination or
            other document pursuant or connected to a transaction
            referred to in paragraph (a),

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 34

using the electronic transaction system established under Part 6A of
the Accounting and Corporate Regulatory Authority Act 2004.

 (2) If the Registrar is satisfied that a transaction should be treated as
having been carried out at some earlier date and time than the date and
time that is reflected in the electronic transaction system, the
Registrar may cause the electronic transaction system and the
register to reflect such earlier date and time.

 (3) The Registrar must keep a record whenever the electronic
transaction system or the register is altered under subsection (2).

 (4) In this section, “transaction”, in relation to the Registrar,
means —

(a) any filing, lodging, submission, production, delivery,
     provision or sending of any document with or to the
     Registrar;

(b) any making of any application, submission or request to
     the Registrar;

          (c) any provision of any undertaking or declaration to the
              Registrar; and

(d) any extraction, retrieval or accessing of any document,
     record or information maintained by the Registrar.

Transitional provision for contact address

 30.—(1) Where an individual maintained an alternate address with
the Registrar under this Act immediately before the commencement
date, that address is taken to be the individual’s contact address for the
purposes of this Act until notice of a change in the individual’s
contact address is lodged under any ACRA administered Act on or
after that date.

 (2) Where an individual did not maintain an alternate address with
the Registrar under this Act immediately before the commencement
date, the individual’s residential address is taken to be the individual’s
contact address for the purposes of this Act until notice of a change in
the individual’s contact address is lodged under any ACRA
administered Act on or after that date.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

35  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (3) An individual’s contact address mentioned in subsection (1) or
(2) is deemed, for the purposes of section 20(1), to be a particular
registered in respect of the person concerned.

 (4) In this section, “commencement date” means the date of
commencement of section 25 of the ACRA (Registry and Regulatory
Enhancements) Act 2024.

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

Disability of persons in default

 31.—(1) Subsection (2) applies where a person (the defaulter) who
is required to be registered —

       (a) carries on business under a business name without being
            registered under this Act in respect of that business name;

       (b) carries on business under a business name —

               (i) after the person’s registration in respect of the
                   business name has been cancelled and has not been
                   restored under section 24; or

              (ii) after the person’s registration in respect of the
                   business name has ceased and has not been
                   restored under section 24; or

       (c) fails to lodge any notice required under section 19(1) or
            20(1) or (3).

 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the defaulter may not enforce
by action or other legal proceeding (whether in the business name or
otherwise) any right under or arising out of any contract in relation to
the business carried on by the defaulter under the business name if the
contract was made or entered into by or on behalf of the defaulter at a
time when —

       (a) the defaulter was not registered as carrying on business
            under the business name;

       (b) the defaulter’s registration under the business name had
            been cancelled or had ceased, and has not been restored
            under section 24; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                     36

          (c) the defaulter was, in respect of the defaulter’s registration
              under the business name, in breach of section 19(1) or
              20(1) or (3).

 (3) A defaulter under subsection (2)(b) is not prevented from
enforcing any right referred to in subsection (2) if the defaulter’s
registration under the business name is restored under section 24.

 (4) The defaulter may apply to the court for relief against the
disability imposed by this section.

(5) The court, on being satisfied —

(a) that the default was accidental or due to inadvertence or
     some other sufficient reason; or

(b) that on other grounds it is just and equitable to grant relief,

may grant such relief either generally, or as respects any particular
contract, on such conditions (if any) as the court may impose.

 (6) This section does not affect the rights of any other party as
against the defaulter in respect of a contract mentioned in
subsection (2).

 (7) If any action or proceedings is commenced by any party against
the defaulter to enforce the rights of the party in respect of a contract
referred to in subsection (2), this section does not prevent the
defaulter from enforcing in that action or proceedings (by way of
counterclaim, set‑off or otherwise) such rights as the defaulter may
have against that party in respect of that contract.

 (8) In this section, “court” means any court before which
proceedings to enforce a contract referred to in subsection (2) are
commenced or before which an issue relating to subsection (2) arises.

                                    PART 3
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Inspection
 32.—(1) The Registrar may authorise in writing any employee of
the Authority or public officer to be an inspector for the purposes of
this Act.

              Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

37  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of ascertaining whether the provisions of this
Act are being complied with, the Registrar or any inspector may at all
reasonable times enter any premises at which the Registrar or
inspector has reason to believe any person is carrying on business,
and may make such examination and inquiry as may be necessary for
those purposes.

 (3) The Registrar and every inspector when exercising any power
under this Act are required to declare their office and produce their
written authority to any person affected by the exercise of that power.

 (4) Any person who fails to comply with a request made by or
resists or obstructs the Registrar or an inspector in the performance of
his or her duties under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (5) It is not an offence for any person to refuse to comply with any
request made by the Registrar or an inspector, or to resist or obstruct
the Registrar or an inspector in the performance of any of his or her
duties under this Act, if the Registrar or inspector (as the case may be)
fails to comply with subsection (3).

Power of Registrar to obtain further information

 33.—(1) In order to obtain such information as the Registrar may
consider necessary for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of
this Act, the Registrar may —

       (a) require any person carrying on business (A), any employee
            of A, any person apparently employed at A’s place of
            business, or any person apparently managing A’s business,
            to answer any question in writing that the Registrar
            considers necessary; or

       (b) summon any person referred to in paragraph (a) to appear
            before the Registrar or an inspector or any other public
            officer whom the Registrar may designate to answer any
            question orally.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 38

 (2) The Registrar may further require a person referred to in
subsection (1) to make such further declaration or supply such further
particulars as the Registrar may require.

Restriction on undischarged bankrupt carrying on business

 34.—(1) Any undischarged bankrupt (whether adjudicated
bankrupt by a Singapore court or a foreign court having
jurisdiction in bankruptcy) —

       (a) who is required to be registered and who carries on any
            business in Singapore; or

       (b) who, directly or indirectly, takes part in or is concerned in
            the management of any business carried on by any person
            required to be registered,

without the permission of the General Division of the High Court or
the written permission of the Official Assignee, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to
both.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (2) On an application by an undischarged bankrupt under
subsection (1) to the General Division of the High Court or the
Official Assignee (as the case may be), the General Division of the
High Court or the Official Assignee may refuse the application or
approve the application subject to such conditions as the General
Division of the High Court or the Official Assignee (as the case may
be) may impose.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (3) The permission of the General Division of the High Court for
the purpose of this section is not to be given unless notice of intention
to apply for permission has been served on the Official Assignee and
the Official Assignee is heard on the application.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

39                      Act 2014                             2020 Ed.

Offences and penalties

35.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who —

    (a) being a person required to be registered —

    (i) carries on business in Singapore without being
        registered;

    (ii) carries on business in Singapore under a business
         name that is different from the person’s registered
         business name; or

    (iii) carries on business under a business name —

    (A) after the person’s registration in respect of the
         business name has been cancelled; or

    (B) after the person’s registration in respect of the
         business name has ceased;

    (b) without lawful excuse, fails to comply with any summons
         or requisition of the Registrar under section 33; or

    (c) makes any statement or provides any information to the
        Registrar under the provisions of this Act that is false in
        any material particular or by reason of the omission of any
        material particular, and that the person either knows or has
        reason to believe is false,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

 (2) It is not an offence for a person to carry on business under a
business name if the person is not required to be registered in respect
of the business name under section 4.

 (3) Any person who fails to comply with section 19(1) or 20(1) or
(3) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or to both.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 40

Evidence of carrying on business under business name

36. If, in any proceedings for an offence under this Act —

(a) proof is given that a business name has been displayed in
     any premises; and

(b) evidence is given from which the court may infer that the
     business name has reference to any business carried on at
     the premises,

the person carrying on the business is, in the absence of proof to the
contrary, presumed to be carrying on the business under that business
name.

Composition of offences

 37.—(1) The Registrar may compound any offence under this Act
which is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) $5,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

Destruction or transfer of old records

 38. If the Registrar is of the opinion that it is no longer necessary or
desirable to retain any document filed or lodged with, submitted to or
issued by the Registrar and which has been microfilmed or converted
to electronic form, the Registrar may —

       (a) destroy the document with the authorisation of the
            National Library Board under section 17 of the National
            Library Board Act 1995; or

       (b) transfer the document to the National Archives of
            Singapore under section 16 of that Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

41                     Act 2014                              2020 Ed.

Enforcement of duty to make returns

39.—(1) If a person —

    (a) having failed to comply with —

    (i) any provision of this Act; or

    (ii) any provision of any other written law which
         requires any return, account, notice or other
         document to be filed or lodged with, or submitted
         to, the Registrar,

    (a) fails to make good the non‑compliance within 14 days after
         service of the Registrar’s notice to comply with the
         provision;

    (b) fails to comply with the Registrar’s request to amend or
         complete, and resubmit any document or to submit a fresh
         document within 14 days after service of the Registrar’s
         request; or

    (c) fails to comply with the Registrar’s request under
        section 27(7) to take such steps within such time as the
        Registrar may specify to ensure that any error or defect in
        any particulars or document in the register is rectified,

a District Court or Magistrate’s Court may, on the Registrar’s
application, make an order directing the relevant person to make good
the failure within such time as is specified in the order.

 (2) Any such order may provide that all the costs of and incidental
to the application are to be borne by a relevant person.

 (3) Nothing in this section limits the operation of any other
provision of this Act or any written law imposing penalties on a
relevant person in respect of any such default referred to in this
section.

(4) In this section, “relevant person” means —

    (a) in the case of an individual proprietor, that individual;

    (b) in the case of a firm, all or any of its partners;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 42

          (c) in the case of a corporation, the corporation, any of its
              officers as defined in section 40(5) or both; and

(d) in the case of a person who carries on a business wholly or
     mainly as nominee of or trustee for another person, the
     firstmentioned person.

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 40.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the officer’s part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were an officer of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a firm is
proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            a partner; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the partner’s part,

the partner as well as the firm shall be guilty of the offence and shall
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a firm) is proved —

       (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
            an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
            its governing body; or

       (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
            officer or member,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
                 Business Names Registration

43                     Act 2014                              2020 Ed.

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.

(5) In this section —

    “body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership;

    “officer” —

    (a) in relation to a body corporate, means any director,
         partner, member of the committee of management,
         chief executive, manager or secretary of the body
         corporate and includes any person purporting to act
         in any such capacity; or

    (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
         than a firm), means the president, the secretary, or
         any member of the committee of the unincorporated
         association, or any person holding a position
         analogous to that of president, secretary or member
         of a committee and includes any person purporting to
         act in any such capacity;

    “partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

 (6) Regulations may modify the application of any provision of this
section to apply to any body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

Authority and its employees not liable

 41. The Authority, the Registrar or any other officer or employee of
the Authority is not liable for any error or inaccuracy in the register or
for any error or inaccuracy (whether in the copying or otherwise) in
any certificate, certified extract, copy or other document made or
issued under this Act if the error or inaccuracy was not due to the lack
of reasonable care and good faith on the part of the Registrar or any
other officer or employee of the Authority.

Service of documents, etc.

 42.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), any document, other than a
document to be served in proceedings in court or a summons issued

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 44

by a court in connection with any offence under this Act, that is
required or authorised to be served under this Act or any regulations
made under this Act may be served —

(a) in the case of an individual —

          (i) by delivering it to the individual personally;

          (ii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
               at, or by sending it by ordinary post or prepaid
               registered post to, the usual or last known address of
               the place of residence of the individual;

          (iia) by leaving it with an adult person apparently resident
                or employed at, or by sending it by ordinary post or
                prepaid registered post to, the individual’s contact
                address;

                                                                       [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

          (iii) by leaving it with an adult person apparently
                employed at, or by sending it by ordinary post or
                prepaid registered post to, the usual or last known
                address of the place of business of the individual;

          (iv) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous
               place at the contact address or usual or last known
               address of residence or business of the individual;

          (v) by sending it by fax to the fax number given to the
               Registrar by the individual as the fax number for the
               service of documents on the individual; or

          (vi) by sending it by email to the last email address given
               to the Registrar by the individual as the email address
               for the service of documents on the individual;

(b) in the case of a firm —

          (i) by delivering it to any one of the partners or the
              secretary or other like officer of the firm;

          (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by ordinary post or
               prepaid registered post to, the principal or last known
               place of business of the firm in Singapore;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

45  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number given to the
          Registrar by the firm as the fax number for the
          service of documents on the firm; or

    (iv) by sending it by email to the last email address given
         to the Registrar by the firm as the email address for
         the service of documents on the firm; and

    (c) in the case of a corporation or an unincorporated
        association —

    (i) by delivering it to the secretary or other like officer
        of the corporation or unincorporated association or,
        in the case of a corporation that is a limited liability
        partnership, the manager of the limited liability
        partnership;

    (ii) by leaving it at, or by sending it by ordinary post or
         prepaid registered post to, the registered office or
         principal office of the corporation or unincorporated
         association in Singapore;

    (iii) by sending it by fax to the fax number given to the
          Registrar as the fax number for the service of
          documents on the corporation or unincorporated
          association; or

    (iv) by sending it by email to the last email address given
         to the Registrar by the corporation or unincorporated
         association as the email address for the service of
         documents on the corporation or unincorporated
         association.

 (2) Where any document to be served by, or on behalf of, the
Registrar or the Minister is —

    (a) served personally in accordance with subsection (1), the
         document is deemed to have been served on the date that it
         is delivered;

    (b) sent by ordinary post in accordance with subsection (1), the
         document is deemed to have been served on the person to
         whom it is addressed on the day after it would in the

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 46

          ordinary course of post be delivered, unless it is returned
          undelivered;

          (c) sent by prepaid registered post in accordance with
              subsection (1), the document is deemed to have been
              served on the person to whom it is addressed 2 days after
              the day it was posted, whether or not it is returned
              undelivered;

(d) sent by fax to the fax number in accordance with
     subsection (1), the document is deemed to have been
     served on the person to whom it is addressed on the day of
     the transmission, subject to the receipt on the sending fax
     machine of a notification (by electronic or other means) of
     a successful transmission to the fax machine for that fax
     number; or

          (e) sent by email to an email address in accordance with
              subsection (1), the document is deemed to have been
              served on the person to whom it is addressed at the time the
              email becomes capable of being retrieved by the person.

 (3) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (4) Every summons issued by a court in connection with any
offence under this Act may be served on the person concerned —

(a) by delivering it to the person;

(b) by delivering it to any adult person residing at the person’s
     last known place of residence; or

       (c) by sending it by prepaid registered post in a cover
            addressed to the person at the person’s last known place
            of residence or business or at any address provided by the
            person (including the person’s contact address).

                                                                               [Act 21 of 2024 wef 09/12/2024]

 (5) In proving service by prepaid registered post of a summons
referred to in subsection (4), it is sufficient to prove that the cover
containing the summons was properly addressed, stamped and posted
by prepaid registered post.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
             Business Names Registration

47           Act 2014                                        2020 Ed.

Regulations

 43.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for carrying out the
purposes and provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made under
that subsection for or with respect to all or any of the following
matters:

    (a) the powers and duties of the Registrar;

    (b) the forms for the purposes of this Act, including the form
         of the register to be kept and the places at which the
         register is to be kept;

    (c) all matters connected with or arising from the restrictions
        as to the business name which may be used by a registered
        person (including rules for determining when a business
        name falls within those restrictions);

    (d) requiring the display of any particulars relating to a
         person’s registration on the person’s correspondence,
         invoices, publications and other documents (in any
         medium) made or used for the purposes of the person’s
         business;

    (e) the persons or classes of persons exempted from the
        requirement to register under this Act;

    (f) the fees to be charged in respect of anything filed or lodged
        with the Registrar, or done under or by virtue of this Act,
        and the method of payment of such fees;

    (g) the penalties to be charged for the late lodgment of any
         document under this Act;

    (h) the waiver, refund or remission, whether wholly or in part,
         of any fee or penalty chargeable under this Act;

    (i) the persons or classes of persons who are to be exempted
        from the payment of any fee or part thereof;

    (j) the offences which may be compounded under section 37;

    (k) all matters and things which are required or permitted to be
        prescribed under or for the purposes of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 48

 (3) Regulations made under subsection (1) may provide that a
contravention of any of the provisions of the regulations shall be an
offence punishable with a fine not exceeding $5,000 or with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or with both.

Saving for other written law

 44. Unless expressly provided, nothing in this Act is to be construed
so as to limit or in any way affect any other written law.

Saving and transitional provisions

 45.—(1) Any person who, immediately before 3 January 2016, was
the Registrar, a Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar of
Businesses appointed under section 3(2) of the repealed Act is to be
treated as the Registrar, a Deputy Registrar or an Assistant Registrar
of Business Names, respectively, appointed under section 3(2) of this
Act until his or her appointment is revoked, the term of his or her
appointment expires, or he or she dies, retires or otherwise vacates his
or her office before the expiry of his or her term of appointment.

 (2) Any person who, immediately before 3 January 2016, is
registered or deemed to be registered under the repealed Act is to
be treated as registered under section 8 of this Act in respect of the
business name for which he or she is registered or deemed to be
registered under section 8 of the repealed Act and the registration of
that person and the person’s business name expires on the date that
the registration would have expired if this Act had not been enacted.

 (3) The Registrar is to transfer to the register kept under this Act the
names, addresses and other particulars of such persons which appear,
immediately before 3 January 2016, in the register kept under the
repealed Act.

 (4) Any person (A) who, under regulations made under the repealed
Act before 3 January 2016, was registered as a local manager
appointed by a person carrying on business (B) is to be treated as
having been appointed the authorised representative of B on
3 January 2016 unless either A or B, within 30 days after 3 January
2016, lodges a notice with the Registrar that —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
    Business Names Registration

49  Act 2014                                                 2020 Ed.

    (a) A has not been appointed as the authorised representative
         of B; or

    (b) A does not meet the criteria set out in section 11(2).

 (5) Where an individual proprietor, a firm or a foreign company is
treated as registered under subsection (2) and the individual
proprietor, all the partners of the firm or all the officers of the
foreign company resides or reside outside Singapore within the
meaning of section 11(14) on 3 January 2016, the individual
proprietor, firm or foreign company (as the case may be) must,
unless subsection (4) applies, appoint at least one authorised
representative in accordance with the provisions of section 11
within 30 days after 3 January 2016, failing which —

    (a) the Registrar may cancel the registration of the individual
         proprietor, the firm or the foreign company; and

    (b) the individual proprietor, the partners of the firm or the
         foreign company (as the case may be) shall each be guilty
         of an offence and shall each be liable on conviction to a
         fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (6) Any person who was a prescribed person for the purposes of
section 20(2) of the repealed Act before 3 January 2016 may, on and
after that date but before such date as the Minister may, by
notification in the Gazette, prescribe, continue to carry out any
transaction with the Registrar using the electronic transaction system
which was permitted or required to be done by the prescribed person
in relation to the service referred to in section 20(1) of the repealed
Act immediately before 3 January 2016.

 (7) The service referred to in section 20(1) of the repealed Act
immediately before 3 January 2016 is, on and after that date, to be
treated as the electronic transaction system referred to in section 29 of
this Act.

 (8) Any application for registration under the provisions of the
repealed Act before 3 January 2016 which was pending immediately
before that date is, where applicable, to be treated as an application
for registration under the corresponding provisions of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
          Business Names Registration

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 50

 (9) Any reservation of name under section 13(3) of the repealed Act
which has not expired before 3 January 2016 is to be treated as a
reservation of name under the corresponding provisions of this Act
but the reservation expires on the date on which the reservation would
have expired if the repealed Act were still in force.

 (10) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister under the
repealed Act and the appeal has not been dealt with or disposed of
immediately before 3 January 2016, the appeal may be dealt with in
accordance with that repealed Act as if this Act had not been enacted.

(11) This Act does not affect —

(a) any investigation commenced or pending under the
     repealed Act before 3 January 2016, and every such
     investigation may be continued and everything in relation
     to such investigation may be done in all respects after that
     day as if this Act had not been enacted;

(b) the continued operation or force of any order or decision of
     the Registrar of Businesses made under the repealed Act
     before 3 January 2016; and

          (c) any right of appeal accrued before 3 January 2016 in
              respect of any order or decision referred to in
              paragraph (b).

 (12) Any subsidiary legislation made under the repealed Act and in
force immediately before 3 January 2016 is, so far as it is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, to continue in force as if
made under this Act until it is revoked or repealed.

 (13) Any written law or document referring to the repealed Act or
any provision thereof is, as far as may be necessary for preserving its
effect, to be construed as referring or as including a reference to this
Act or the corresponding provision in this Act, as the case may be.

 (14) In this section, “repealed Act” means the Business
Registration Act (Cap. 32, 2004 Revised Edition) repealed by this
Act.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
             LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

      BUSINESS NAMES REGISTRATION
                       ACT 2014

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 29 of 2014 — Business Names Registration Act 2014

Bill                  : 26/2014

First Reading         : 8 September 2014

Second and Third Readings : 8 October 2014

Commencement          : 3 January 2016

2. Act 15 of 2017 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2017
   (Amendments made by section 53(2) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 13/2017

First Reading         : 28 February 2017

Second and Third Readings : 10 March 2017

Commencement          : 11 October 2017 (section 53(2))

3. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018
   (Amendments made by section 456 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2018

First Reading         : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement          : 30 July 2020 (section 456)

4. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 15 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 15 of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
               ii

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Business Names Registration
                                    Act 2014

Operation      : 31 December 2021

6. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

7. Act 3 of 2024 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2024
   (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill           : 36/2023

First Reading  : 6 November 2023

Second and Third Readings : 9 January 2024

Commencement   : 26 February 2024

8. Act 30 of 2024 — Platform Workers Act 2024

Bill           : 26/2024

First Reading  : 6 August 2024

Second and Third Readings : 10 September 2024

Commencement   : 1 November 2024

9. Act 21 of 2024 — ACRA (Registry and Regulatory Enhancements) Act
                           2024

Bill           : 17/2024

First Reading  : 7 May 2024

Second and Third Readings : 2 July 2024

Commencement   : 9 December 2024

10. Act 22 of 2024 — Corporate Service Providers Act 2024

Bill           : 18/2024

First Reading  : 7 May 2024

Second and Third Readings : 2 July 2024

Commencement   : 9 June 2025

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
.                                 iii
                         Abbreviations
G.N.
G.N. Sp.      (updated on 29 August 2022)
L.A.          Gazette Notification
L.N.          Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
M.            Legislative Assembly
              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
Parl.         Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
S             Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S.I.          Malaysia)
S (N.S.)      Parliament
S.S.G.G.      Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G. (E)  Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
              Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette
              Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
        COMPARATIVE TABLE

BUSINESS NAMES REGISTRATION
                 ACT 2014

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.                     Act 29 of 2014
[Omitted as having had effect]  45
45                              46
[Omitted as spent]
                                   (13)
   (13)                            (14)
   (14)                            (15)
[Omitted as having had effect]  47
[Omitted as having had effect]  THE SCHEDULE

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 9/6/2025
