THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                     MERCHANT SHIPPING

          (MARITIME LABOUR CONVENTION)
                               ACT 2014

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                         2020 Ed.

       Merchant Shipping
(Maritime Labour Convention)

             Act 2014

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                       PART 2
                          SCOPE OF APPLICATION

3. Application of this Act
4. Exemption of ship

                                        PART 3

                      MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR
                         SEAFARERS’ EMPLOYMENT

 5. Minimum age of seafarers
 6. Minimum age of cooks on board ships
 7. Seafarer to have valid medical fitness certificate
 8. Employment of seafarers
 9. Period of validity of medical fitness certificate
10. Reporting of medical conditions
11. Review of qualified medical practitioner’s decision
12. Seafarer recruitment and placement services

                                        PART 4
             CONDITIONS OF SEAFARERS’ EMPLOYMENT
13. Shipowners to provide seafarers with safe and secure workplace
14. Seafarer’s employment agreement

                                                      1

                                                                                          31.12.2021
         Merchant Shipping

         (Maritime Labour Convention)

2        Act 2014                                                  2020 Ed.

Section  Notification of crew list
         Hours of rest
   15.   Restriction on working hours for young seafarer
   16.   Restriction on night work for young seafarer
   17.   Prohibition on hazardous work for young seafarer
   18.   Wages
   19.   Allotment notes
   20.   Entitlement to annual leave
   21.   Repatriation of seafarers
   22.   Compensation to seafarers in event of wreck or loss of ship, etc.
   23.
   24.

                                           PART 5

                                         CATERING

   25. Requirement to carry qualified ship’s cook
   26. Training requirements for catering staff and other persons

            processing food in galley
   27. Certificate of proficiency as ship’s cook

                                           PART 6

                        MEDICAL CARE AND TREATMENT

   28. Medical care
   29. Medical report forms
   30. Medicine chest
   31. Medical treatment on board ship
   32. Medical advice through radio stations
   33. Access to medical care ashore
   34. Financial security requirement
   34A. Approved financial security provider
   35. Shipowner’s duty to make provision for seafarer medical and

            other expenses
   36. Shipowner’s liability for wages following sickness or injury

            sustained by seafarer
   37. Shipowner’s liability in respect of burial or cremation of seafarer
   38. Exclusion from liability under sections 35, 36 and 37
   39. Limitation of seafarer’s right to recover
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                          3

          PART 7

          HEALTH AND SAFETY PROTECTION AND
                     ACCIDENT PREVENTION

Section   Shipowner’s duty to ensure safety and health of seafarers
          Master’s duty to implement measures
   40.    Duties of seafarers at work on board ship
   41.    Safety committee
   42.    Codes of practice
   43.    Use of approved codes of practice in criminal proceedings
   44.    Investigation into occupational accidents, injuries and diseases
   45.    on board ships
   46.

                                        PART 8

                     INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION

47. Application and interpretation of this Part
48. Maritime Labour Certificate and Declaration of Maritime

         Labour Compliance
49. Power to inspect ships
50. Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance
51. Interim Maritime Labour Certificate
52. Issue of Maritime Labour Certificate
53. Validity of Maritime Labour Certificate
54. Display of Maritime Labour Certificate and Declaration of

         Maritime Labour Compliance

                                        PART 9
                                   COMPLAINTS

55. On-board complaint procedures
56. Provision of complaint procedures and other information

                                       PART 10

                             INSPECTIONS IN PORT

57. Application of this Part
58. Inspection of vessels in port
59. Power to detain ships

                                                               31.12.2021
         Merchant Shipping

         (Maritime Labour Convention)

4        Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

         PART 11

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Offences by bodies corporate, etc.
   60.   Forgery, etc., of documents and fraudulent use
   61.   Document obtained by fraud
   62.   Interfering with person in carrying out duty, etc.
   63.   Misleading officer, refusal to answer questions, produce
   64.   documents, etc.
         Taking person performing duty to sea
   65.   Provision as to jurisdiction in case of offences
   66.   Jurisdiction in case of offences on board ship
   67.   Jurisdiction of court
   68.   Composition of offences
   69.   Sums ordered to be paid leviable by distress on ship
   70.   Depositions to be received in evidence when witness cannot be
   71.   produced
         Proof of attestation not required
   72.   Admissibility of documents in evidence
   73.   Service of documents
   74.   Mode of making declarations
   75.   Director may authorise person to exercise powers and duties
   76.   Protection from personal liability
   77.   Persons appointed or authorised under Act deemed public
   78.   servants
         Powers of Authority to prescribe fees, recovery of fees and
   79.   application of moneys
         Exemption on application
   80.   Amendment of Schedules
   81.   Regulations
   82.   Saving and transitional provisions
   83.   First Schedule — List of other written law implementing

                                   requirements of the Convention
         Second Schedule — General areas subject to detailed

                                   inspection in port

An Act to give effect to the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006, to
  make provisions generally for matters connected therewith.

                                                                 [1 April 2014]
             Merchant Shipping

             (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.     Act 2014                      5

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour
Convention) Act 2014.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “armed robbery”, in relation to a ship, means —

              (a) any illegal act of violence or detention or any act of
                   depredation, or threat of such act, other than an act of
                   piracy, committed for private ends and directed
                   against the ship or against persons or property on
                   board the ship, within a State’s internal waters,
                   archipelagic waters and territorial sea; or

              (b) any act of inciting or intentionally facilitating an act
                   mentioned in paragraph (a);

      “Authority” means the Maritime and Port Authority of
         Singapore established under the Maritime and Port
         Authority of Singapore Act 1996;

      “collective agreement” —

              (a) in relation to a collective agreement governed by the
                   Industrial Relations Act 1960, has the meaning given
                   by that Act; and

              (b) in relation to a collective agreement not governed by
                   the Industrial Relations Act 1960, means a similar
                   agreement governed by the law of a territory outside
                   Singapore;

      “Convention” means the Maritime Labour Convention, 2006
         adopted by the International Labour Organization at Geneva
         on 23 February 2006 and —

                                           31.12.2021
   Merchant Shipping

   (Maritime Labour Convention)

6  Act 2014                                       2020 Ed.

   (a) includes any amendment to the Convention which
        has come into force and has been accepted by the
        Government; and

   (b) where the context admits or requires, includes the
        Regulations, and the Standards in Part A of the Code,
        of the Convention;

   “court”, in relation to any proceedings, includes any court
      having jurisdiction in the matter to which the proceedings
      relate;

   “Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance” means the
      declaration mentioned in section 50;

   “Director” means the Director of Marine appointed under
      section 4 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 and includes
      the Deputy Director of Marine appointed under that Act;

   “gross rate of pay” means the total amount of money including
      allowances to which a seafarer is entitled under his or her
      seafarer’s employment agreement either —

   (a) for working for a period of time, that is, for one hour,
        one day, one week, one month or for such other
        period as may be stated or implied in his or her
        seafarer’s employment agreement; or

   (b) for each completed piece or task of work,

   but does not include —

   (c) additional payments by way of overtime payments;

   (d) additional payments by way of bonus payments or
        annual wage supplements;

   (e) any sum paid to the seafarer as reimbursement for
       special expenses incurred by him or her in the course
       of employment;

   (f) productivity incentive payments; and

   (g) travelling, food or housing allowances;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                        7

“gross tonnage”, in relation to a ship, means its gross tonnage
   calculated in accordance with —

          (a) the regulations in Annex 1 of the International
               Convention on Tonnage Measurement of
               Ships, 1969 and any amendment to the regulations
               that has come into force and has been accepted by the
               Government; or

          (b) any successor Convention accepted by the
               Government;

“hours of rest” means a period during which the seafarer is free
   to dispose of his or her own time and movements, but does
   not include any short breaks and any intervals allowed during
   hours of work for rest and meals;

“inspector” means a person who —

          (a) is a surveyor of ships; or

          (b) is appointed in writing by the Director to be an
               inspector for the purposes of this Act;

“Maritime Labour Certificate” means the certificate mentioned
   in section 52;

“master” includes every person, except a pilot, having command
   or charge of a ship;

“medical fitness certificate” means a certificate attesting to a
   person’s fitness to perform the duties which that person will
   carry out at sea and which is issued by a qualified medical
   practitioner (whether or not subject to restrictions or
   conditions);

“other relevant written law” means other written law
   implementing the requirements of the Convention, as
   specified in the First Schedule;

“piracy” has the same meaning as in the United Nations
   Convention on the Law of the Sea adopted on 10 December
   1982 by the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of
   the Sea;

                                          31.12.2021
                 Merchant Shipping

   (Maritime Labour Convention)

8                Act 2014                                 2020 Ed.

   “Port Master” means the Port Master appointed under section 15
      of the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore Act 1996
      and includes any Deputy Port Master appointed under that
      section;

   “qualified medical practitioner” means a person who —

   (a) is a duly qualified medical practitioner under the
        Medical Registration Act 1997; or

   (b) possesses such other qualification as may be
        approved by the Director;

   “Recognised Organisation” means any organisation appointed
      by the Director under section 5(1) of the Merchant Shipping
      Act 1995, or the Merchant Shipping (Authorised
      Organisations) Regulations or any regulations made under
      section 116 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995, and
      authorised by the Director to do one or more of the following:

   (a) survey and inspect Singapore ships for the purposes
        of the requirements of the Convention or this Act;

   (b) issue Maritime Labour Certificates and Declarations
        of Maritime Labour Compliance in respect of
        Singapore ships;

   “requirements of the Convention” refers to the requirements in
      the Articles, the Regulations, and Part A of the Code, of the
      Convention;

   “seafarer” means any person, including the master, who is
      employed or engaged or works in any capacity on board a
      ship, but does not include —

   (a) a pilot;

   (b) a port worker;

   (c) a person temporarily employed on the ship during the
       period it is in port; and

   (d) a person specified in an Order made by the Authority,
        with the approval of the Minister, declaring the
        categories of persons not to be regarded as seafarers;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 9

“seafarer recruitment and placement service” means any person,
   company, institution, agency or other organisation which is
   engaged in recruiting seafarers on behalf of shipowners or
   placing seafarers with shipowners;

“seafarer’s employment agreement” means a contract of
   employment and articles of agreement in writing made
   between a person employed as a seafarer on a ship and the
   person employing him or her;

“ship” has the meaning given by the Merchant Shipping
   Act 1995, but does not include —

          (a) any vessel which navigates exclusively in inland
               waters or waters within, or closely adjacent to,
               sheltered waters or areas where the Maritime and
               Port Authority of Singapore (Port) Regulations
               apply;

          (b) any warship or naval auxiliary;

          (c) any ship engaged in fishing or in similar pursuits;

          (d) any ship of traditional build such as dhows and junks;

          (e) any ship that is intended to be operated without any
              seafarer on board; and

          (f) any ship specified in an Order made by the Authority,
              with the approval of the Minister, declaring the
              categories of ships to be excluded from the
              application of this Act;

“shipowner”, in relation to a ship, means the owner of the ship,
   and includes —

          (a) the registered owner; or

          (b) in the absence of registration —

          (i) the person owning the ship; or

          (ii) any other person (such as the ship manager,
               agent or bareboat charterer) who has assumed
               responsibility for the operation of the ship from
               the owner and who, on assuming such

                                                31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

10  Act 2014                        2020 Ed.

    responsibility, has agreed to take over the
    duties and responsibilities imposed on
    shipowners in accordance with the
    Convention, whether or not any other
    organisation or person fulfils certain of the
    duties or responsibilities on the shipowner’s
    behalf;

    “Singapore ship” has the meaning given by the Merchant
       Shipping Act 1995;

    “STCW Code” means the Seafarers’ Training, Certification and
        Watchkeeping Code adopted by the 1995 Conference of
        Parties to the International Convention on Standards of
        Training, Certification and Watchkeeping for Seafarers, 1978
        and any amendment to the Code that has come into force and
        has been accepted by the Government;

    “surveyor of ships” means a person appointed as a surveyor of
        ships under section 5 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995;

    “young seafarer” means any seafarer who is 16 years of age or
        above and below 18 years of age.

                                                                                               [3/2019; 16/2020]

(2) References in this Act —

    (a) to a failure to do any act or thing include references to a
         refusal or neglect to do that act or thing;

    (b) to going to sea include, in the case of a Singapore ship,
         references to going to sea from any country outside
         Singapore; and

    (c) to a death occurring on a ship include references to a death
        occurring in a ship’s boat or life raft and to being lost from
        a ship, ship’s boat or life raft.

(3) For the purposes of this Act —

    (a) a seafarer is discharged from a ship when his or her
         employment on that ship is terminated;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      11

(b) a seafarer discharged from a ship in any country and left
     there is deemed to be left behind in that country even
     though the ship also remains there; and

          (c) a ship is deemed to have gone to sea if it has got under way
              for any purpose except for the purpose of moving the ship
              from one berth or place in a port to another berth or place in
              the port.

                                    PART 2

                        SCOPE OF APPLICATION

Application of this Act

 3.—(1) Except as otherwise expressly provided, this Part and
Parts 1 and 11 apply to —

       (a) all Singapore ships ordinarily engaged in commercial
            activities wherever they may be;

       (b) all ships, not being Singapore ships, in Singapore, whether
            publicly or privately owned, ordinarily engaged in
            commercial activities; and

       (c) all seafarers employed on ships mentioned in paragraph (a)
            or (b).

 (2) Except as otherwise expressly provided, Parts 3 to 7 and 9 apply
to —

       (a) all Singapore ships ordinarily engaged in commercial
            activities wherever they may be; and

       (b) all seafarers employed on ships mentioned in
            paragraph (a).

Exemption of ship

 4.—(1) Subject to this section, where the Authority determines that
it would not be reasonable or practicable to apply any provision of
this Act, or any regulations made under this Act, to any Singapore
ship of less than 200 gross tonnage and not engaged in international
voyages, the Authority may exempt that Singapore ship, or particular

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

12  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

categories of Singapore ships, either generally or for such time or
such voyage as the Authority determines.

 (2) The Authority may, in granting any exemption under
subsection (1), impose such conditions on the Singapore ship, or
particular categories of Singapore ships, as the Authority thinks fit.

 (3) Without limiting subsections (1) and (2), the conditions may
include a requirement that the provisions of any other written law, or
the terms of any seafarer’s employment agreement or collective
agreement, or other measures, be complied with in lieu of any
provision of this Act, or any regulations made under this Act, or
Part A of the Code of the Convention.

                                    PART 3

                  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR
                     SEAFARERS’ EMPLOYMENT

Minimum age of seafarers

 5.—(1) A person must not cause or permit a person below 16 years
of age to be employed on board a ship.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$5,000.

Minimum age of cooks on board ships

 6.—(1) A seafarer below 18 years of age must not be employed or
engaged, or work, as a ship’s cook.

 (2) Any person who employs or engages a seafarer below 18 years
of age to work as a ship’s cook shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Seafarer to have valid medical fitness certificate

 7.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a person must not work
as a seafarer on a ship unless that person has been issued with a
medical fitness certificate complying with the prescribed
requirements, and which is valid and is not suspended.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                13

 (2) A seafarer who has been issued with a medical fitness certificate
must carry that certificate on board during the term of that seafarer’s
employment on a ship.

 (3) A seafarer whose medical fitness certificate has expired during
the course of a voyage may continue to work until the earlier of the
following:

(a) the first port of call at which it is possible for the seafarer to
     apply for a medical fitness certificate and to be examined
     by a qualified medical practitioner;

(b) the end of 3 months starting from the date of the expiry of
     the certificate.

(4) In urgent cases, with the Director’s approval, if a person —

(a) does not hold a valid medical fitness certificate; but

(b) has held a medical fitness certificate for at least 24 months
     (or in the case of a person below 18 years of age at the date
     of issue of the certificate, at least 12 months) and that
     certificate has expired no earlier than one month before the
     date on which that person joined a ship,

that person may work as a seafarer on that ship until the first port of
call at which it is possible for an application for a medical fitness
certificate in respect of that person to be made and for that person to
be examined by a qualified medical practitioner, but in any case not
for a period exceeding 3 months.

 (5) No person may work as a seafarer on a ship in a capacity of sea
service or in a geographical area precluded by any restriction in that
person’s medical fitness certificate.

 (6) No person may work as a seafarer on a ship in breach of a
condition of that person’s medical fitness certificate.

Employment of seafarers

 8.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), a person must not
employ another person as a seafarer on a ship unless that other person
has been issued with a medical fitness certificate complying with the
prescribed requirements, and which is valid and is not suspended.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

14  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

 (2) A person may continue to employ, as a seafarer on a ship, a
person whose medical fitness certificate has expired during the
course of a voyage until the earlier of the following:

    (a) the first port of call at which it is possible for the seafarer to
         apply for a medical fitness certificate and to be examined
         by a qualified medical practitioner;

    (b) the end of 3 months starting from the date of expiry of the
         certificate.

 (3) In urgent cases, with the Director’s approval, if a person who is
a seafarer —

    (a) does not hold a valid medical fitness certificate; but

    (b) has held a medical fitness certificate for at least 24 months
         (or in the case of a person below 18 years of age at the date
         of issue of the certificate, at least 12 months) and that
         certificate has expired no earlier than one month before the
         date on which the seafarer joined a ship,

a person may employ that person as a seafarer on that ship until the
first port of call at which it is possible for an application for a medical
fitness certificate in respect of that seafarer to be made and for that
seafarer to be examined by a qualified medical practitioner, but in any
case not for a period exceeding 3 months.

 (4) A person must not employ a person as a seafarer on a ship in a
capacity of sea service or in a geographical area precluded by any
restriction in that person’s medical fitness certificate.

 (5) A person must not employ a person as a seafarer on a ship in a
way that breaches a condition of that person’s medical fitness
certificate.

 (6) Any person who contravenes subsection (1), (4) or (5) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $10,000.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                           15

Period of validity of medical fitness certificate

 9. A medical fitness certificate is valid only from the date of the
medical examination and for the period specified on the certificate,
which must not exceed the following maximum periods:

(a) in respect of a person below 18 years of age, one year;

(b) in respect of a person of 18 years of age or above, 2 years.

Reporting of medical conditions

 10.—(1) A seafarer who holds a medical fitness certificate and
who —

       (a) is, or is likely to be, absent from work for 30 days or more
            due to a medical condition; or

       (b) develops a significant medical condition,

must report that medical condition as soon as practicable to a
qualified medical practitioner.

 (2) If a seafarer is required to make the report mentioned in
subsection (1), the validity of that seafarer’s medical fitness
certificate is suspended from the date on which it first becomes
practicable for that seafarer to make the report until the date (if any)
on which a qualified medical practitioner has assessed, if necessary
by conducting a medical examination of the seafarer, that the seafarer
is fit having regard to any prescribed medical standards.

 (3) In this section, “medical condition” includes both injury and
illness, and a significant medical condition is one which adversely
affects or is reasonably likely to adversely affect the seafarer’s ability
to carry out his or her duties, including the seafarer’s ability to
undertake emergency duties.

Review of qualified medical practitioner’s decision
 11.—(1) A person who is aggrieved by —
       (a) the refusal of a qualified medical practitioner to issue a
            medical fitness certificate;
       (b) any restriction imposed on such a certificate; or

                                                   31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

16  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (c) the suspension for more than 3 months or cancellation of
        such a certificate by a qualified medical practitioner,

may, not later than 90 days after the refusal, restriction, suspension or
cancellation, apply to the Director for the matter to be reviewed by
another qualified medical practitioner.

 (2) On receiving the application, the Director must permit the
medical fitness of the seafarer to be reviewed by another qualified
medical practitioner unless the Director is satisfied that such a review
will not produce a different result.

Seafarer recruitment and placement services

 12.—(1) A person must not operate a seafarer recruitment and
placement service in Singapore unless the person is authorised to do
so by the Director.

 (2) Despite any written law to the contrary, a person must not
demand or receive, directly or indirectly, from a seafarer or a person
seeking employment as a seafarer (called a prospective employee), or
from a person on behalf of a prospective employee, any remuneration
for providing the prospective employee with employment.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years
or to both.

 (4) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for the control and management of seafarer recruitment
and placement services for the purposes of this Act and, in particular,
in respect of all or any of the following matters:

       (a) prohibiting seafarer recruitment and placement services
            from using means, mechanisms or lists intended to prevent
            or deter seafarers from gaining employment for which they
            are qualified;

       (b) maintenance of a seafarer recruitment and placement
            register by the seafarer recruitment and placement
            services;

       (c) the recruitment and placement process;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      17

(d) ensuring that shipowners have the means to protect
     seafarers from being stranded in a foreign port;

          (e) the procedure for the examination of and response by the
              seafarer recruitment and placement services to any
              complaint concerning their activities;

          (f) prescribing a compensation scheme for the protection of
              seafarers in the event the seafarer recruitment and
              placement service or the shipowner fails to meet
              obligations under the seafarer’s employment agreement;

(g) inspection of the premises and documents of any seafarer
     recruitment and placement service.

 (5) The Director or an inspector may, at any time, for the purposes
of this section —

(a) enter and inspect any premises of any seafarer recruitment
     and placement service;

(b) require and enforce the production of any book, certificate
     or document relating to any ship, seafarer or seafarer
     recruitment and placement service; and

          (c) summon any person before the Director or inspector and
              require the person to answer questions.

 (6) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the requirement of a
person to comply with the Employment Agencies Act 1958.

 (7) A shipowner must not use a seafarer recruitment and placement
service located in a state or territory that has not acceded to or ratified
the Convention unless the shipowner has satisfied the Director that
the seafarer recruitment and placement service is compliant with the
requirements of the Convention.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

18  Act 2014                                          2020 Ed.

    PART 4

    CONDITIONS OF SEAFARERS’ EMPLOYMENT

Shipowners to provide seafarers with safe and secure
workplace

 13. Subject to this Act, it is the duty and obligation of every

shipowner to provide and ensure that every seafarer in the
shipowner’s employment is provided, in accordance with the
requirements of this Act and any other written law, with —

    (a) a safe and secure workplace that complies with safety
         standards prescribed by written law;

    (b) fair terms of employment;

    (c) decent working and living conditions on board the ship;
        and

    (d) health protection, medical care and welfare measures
         prescribed by written law.

Seafarer’s employment agreement

 14.—(1) A person must not cause or permit another person without
a seafarer’s employment agreement to be employed as a seafarer on a
ship.

 (2) Every shipowner must —

       (a) ensure that the seafarer’s employment agreement is read
            over and explained to the seafarer;

       (b) ascertain that the seafarer understands the agreement;

       (c) ensure that the seafarer has been given an opportunity to
            examine and seek advice on the agreement before the
            seafarer signs it; and

       (d) ensure that the agreement is signed both by the seafarer and
            by or on behalf of the shipowner.

 (3) The master or shipowner must cause to be supplied to the
seafarer a signed original of the seafarer’s employment agreement
under which the seafarer is employed.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      19

 (4) If a seafarer’s employment agreement is not in English, a copy
of the standard form of the seafarer’s employment agreement must be
available in English on board the ship.

 (5) Where a collective agreement forms all or part of a seafarer’s
employment agreement, a copy of that collective agreement must be
available on board the ship and, where that collective agreement is
not in English, the portions of that collective agreement that are
subject to an inspection in port as specified in the Second Schedule
must also be available in English.

 (6) The Authority may prescribe the form of and the matters to be
included in the seafarer’s employment agreement and the particulars
to be entered into it.

 (7) Any term of a seafarer’s employment agreement that imposes a
condition of service which is less favourable to a seafarer than any of
the terms contained in this Act is unenforceable by the shipowner to
the extent that it is so less favourable.

 (8) Any term in an employment agreement providing for the
seafarer to forego any part of the minimum annual leave prescribed
under section 22 is unenforceable insofar as it purports to deprive the
seafarer of that right or to remove or reduce the liability of the
shipowner to grant the minimum annual leave prescribed under this
Part except under such circumstances as may be prescribed by the
Authority.

 (9) Either party to a seafarer’s employment agreement may at any
time give to the other party notice of the firstmentioned party’s
intention to terminate the agreement.

 (10) The length of the notice must be the same for both the
shipowner and the seafarer and must be in accordance with the
seafarer’s employment agreement, provided that the notice period is
not less than 7 days, except in circumstances prescribed under
subsection (14)(c).

 (11) Such notice must be written and may be given at any time, and
the day on which the notice is given must be included in the period of
the notice.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

20  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

 (12) Either party to the seafarer’s employment agreement may,
without waiting for the expiry of the notice mentioned in
subsection (10), terminate the agreement by paying to the other
party a sum equal to the amount of salary at the gross rate of pay
which would have accrued to the seafarer during the period of the
notice.

 (13) Despite subsections (9) and (12) or any term of the seafarer’s
employment agreement, where a seafarer is held captive on or off a

ship as a result of an act of piracy or armed robbery against the ship,
the seafarer’s employment agreement continues to have effect during
the period of captivity, regardless of whether —

    (a) the date fixed for the expiry of the seafarer’s employment
         agreement has passed; or

    (b) either party to the seafarer’s employment agreement has
         given notice to suspend or terminate it.

                                                                                                     [16/2020]

 (14) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations for all matters relating to the engagement and discharge of
seafarers, including the following matters:

    (a) the categories of seafarer’s employment agreements;

    (b) seafarer’s discharge books and other records of
         employment;

    (c) the circumstances under which a notice period shorter than
        the minimum notice period of 7 days may be permitted.

 (15) Any person who employs a seafarer or enters into a seafarer’s
employment agreement with a seafarer in contravention of this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 6 months or to both and, in the case of a second or
subsequent conviction, to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to both.
                           Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.                   Act 2014               21

Notification of crew list

 15.—(1) A shipowner and the master must notify the Authority, in
the prescribed manner, of the details of seafarers who are employed
on a ship on the following occasions:

(a) when the ship is registered, provisionally or otherwise,
     under Part 2 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995;

(b) when a seafarer’s employment agreement is entered into
     with any seafarer;

(c) when any term of the seafarer’s employment agreement of
     a seafarer employed on the ship is altered;

(d) when a seafarer is discharged from the ship.

 (2) Any shipowner or master who contravenes subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.

Hours of rest

 16.—(1) Every shipowner must ensure that every seafarer in the
shipowner’s employment is given the hours of rest in accordance with
this section.

 (2) The minimum hours of rest are 10 hours in any 24-hour period
and 77 hours in any 7-day period.

 (3) The minimum hours of rest may be divided into no more than
2 periods, one of which must be at least 6 hours in length, and the
interval between consecutive periods of rest must not exceed
14 hours.

 (4) Where a seafarer is employed in work during hours of rest, he or
she must be compensated with an equivalent period of rest in the next
rest period, or if not possible, as soon as practicable after that.

 (5) A person must not cause or permit payment to be made in lieu of
hours of rest.

 (6) The master must cause for every position —

       (a) the schedule of service at sea and service in port;

       (b) the minimum hours of rest required by this Act; and

                                                  31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

22  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (c) all other information on working arrangements that may be
        required by the Director from time to time,

to be displayed in English and the working language or languages of
the ship using such format as may be prescribed by the Authority and
posted in an easily accessible place on board the ship.

 (7) The master must maintain a record of each seafarer’s daily
hours of rest on board the ship, which must —

    (a) be in a standardised format that may be prescribed by the
         Authority; and

    (b) be in English and, if the working language of the ship is not
         English, also be in the working language or languages of
         the ship.

 (8) The master must at the end of each month cause a seafarer to be
given a record of the seafarer’s daily hours of rest mentioned in
subsection (7) that has been endorsed by or on behalf of the master.

 (9) The Director may, in any particular case, permit exceptions to
the hours of rest set out in this section in accordance with and subject
to any prescribed conditions.

 (10) Nothing in this section prevents the master from suspending a
seafarer’s hours of rest for the purposes of performing work that is
necessary for the immediate safety of the ship, persons on board or
cargo, or for the purpose of giving assistance to other ships or persons
in distress at sea, provided that the seafarer is compensated with an
equivalent period of rest as soon as practicable after the normal
situation has been restored.

 (11) Any shipowner who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

Restriction on working hours for young seafarer
 17.—(1) Subject to section 16(10) and subsection (2) —

       (a) a person must not require any young seafarer to work more
            than 8 hours per day or 40 hours per week; and
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      23

(b) a shipowner and the master must ensure that a young
     seafarer is —

          (i) allowed sufficient time for all meals and a break of at
              least one hour for the main meal of the day; and

          (ii) allowed a 15-minute rest period as soon as
               practicable following every 2 hours of continuous
               work.

 (2) A young seafarer may be required to work under conditions that
do not comply with subsection (1) if the master is of the opinion
that —

(a) the effective training of the young seafarer in accordance
     with established programmes and schedules would be
     impaired; or

(b) the requirements of subsection (1) are impracticable for the
     young seafarer assigned to watchkeeping duties or working
     on a rostered shift-work system in the deck, engine room or
     catering departments.

 (3) The master must keep a record of all instances where a young
seafarer is required under subsection (2) to work under conditions
that do not comply with subsection (1), and the record must state the
reasons and be signed by the master.

Restriction on night work for young seafarer

 18.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person must not cause or
permit any young seafarer to be employed in any kind of night work
on any ship.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Director may give approval for a
young seafarer to be employed in night work if the Director is of the
opinion that —

       (a) the effective training of the young seafarer in accordance
            with established programmes and schedules would be
            impaired; or

       (b) the specific nature of the work or a recognised training
            programme requires that the young seafarer perform duties

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

24  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    at night and the Director has determined that the work will
    not be detrimental to the seafarer’s health or wellbeing.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

 (4) In this section, “night work” means work done between 9 p.m.
and 6 a.m. of the following day according to the time zone the ship is
in.

Prohibition on hazardous work for young seafarer
 19.—(1) A person must not cause or permit any young seafarer to

be employed in any hazardous work on any ship.

 (2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

 (3) In this section, “hazardous work” means any of the following
work:

       (a) lifting, moving or carrying of heavy loads or objects;

       (b) entry into boilers, tanks and cofferdams;

       (c) exposure to harmful noise and vibration levels;

       (d) operating hoisting and other power machinery and tools, or
            acting as signallers to operators of such equipment;

       (e) handling mooring or tow lines or ground tackle;

        (f) rigging;

       (g) work aloft or on deck in heavy weather;

       (h) servicing of electrical equipment;

        (i) exposure to potentially harmful materials or harmful
            physical agents such as dangerous or toxic substances
            and ionising radiation;

        (j) cleaning of catering machinery;
       (k) handling or taking charge of ship’s boats.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      25

Wages

 20.—(1) Except as otherwise provided in this Act or any other
written law, the wages due to a seafarer under a seafarer’s
employment agreement must be paid to the seafarer in full on a
monthly basis, before the expiry of the last day of the month in
respect of which the salary is payable.

 (2) If any amount which, under subsection (1), is payable to a
seafarer is not paid at the time at which it is so payable, the seafarer is
entitled to wages at the rate last payable under the seafarer’s
employment agreement for every day on which the amount remains
unpaid until it is paid in full.

 (3) Subsection (2) does not apply if the failure to pay was due to any
reasonable dispute as to liability or to the act or default of the seafarer
or to any other cause, not being the wrongful act or default of the
person liable to pay the seafarer’s wages or of the person’s employee
or agent.

 (4) The master of a ship must deliver to each seafarer employed on
the ship under a seafarer’s employment agreement, a monthly
account of wages due to the seafarer under that agreement,
including but not limited to basic wage, basic leave wage, overtime
pay and other allowances stated in the agreement, and additional
payments and deductions subject to which the wages are payable
(called in this section the account).

 (5) Where the payment is made in a currency or at a rate that is
different from the one agreed to, the account should also indicate the
rate of exchange used, which is either —

(a) the prevailing market rate of the bank designated by the
     seafarer; or

(b) the exchange rate set out in the collective agreement for the
     duration of the agreement,

provided that the exchange rate is not unfavourable to the seafarer.

 (6) The account must indicate that the amounts stated in it are
subject to any later adjustment that may be found necessary and the

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

26                        Act 2014               2020 Ed.

master must deliver the account before the expiry of the last day of the
month in respect of which the salary is payable.

 (7) If the amounts stated in the account require adjustment, the
person who employed the seafarer must deliver to the seafarer a
further account stating the adjusted amounts, and must deliver that
account to the seafarer before the expiry of the last day of the next
month in respect of which the salary is payable.

 (8) Where a seafarer is held captive on or off a ship as a result of an
act of piracy or armed robbery against the ship, the seafarer’s wages
and other entitlements (including the remittance of any allotments
made in accordance with section 21) under —

    (a) the seafarer’s employment agreement;

    (b) any applicable collective agreement; or

    (c) any written law,

must continue to be paid during the entire period of captivity and
until —

    (d) the date on which the seafarer is released and duly
         repatriated in accordance with this Act; or

       (e) the date of the seafarer’s death, if the seafarer dies while in
            captivity.

                                                                                                           [16/2020]

 (9) Any person who, without reasonable cause, fails to comply with
subsection (4), (6) or (7) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000.

Allotment notes

 21.—(1) Subject to this section, a seafarer may, by means of an
allotment note, allot directly to any person or persons nominated by
the seafarer, by bank transfer or similar means, all or part of the wages
to which the seafarer will become entitled in the course of
employment on a ship.

 (2) A person to whom any part of a seafarer’s wages has been
allotted by an allotment note issued in accordance with this section
has the right to recover that part in the person’s own name and for that
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                           27

purpose has the same remedies as the seafarer has for the recovery of
the seafarer’s wages.

 (3) In any proceedings brought by a person named in an allotment
note as the person to whom any part of a seafarer’s wages has been
allotted, it is presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the seafarer
is entitled to the wages specified in the note and that the allotment has
not been varied or cancelled.

(4) Unless the shipowner and the seafarer otherwise agree —

(a) the first sum payable under an allotment note is payable not
     less than one month from the date on which the allotment
     note is issued, and subsequent sums become payable at
     regular intervals of not less than one month reckoned from
     the date when the first sum is payable; and

(b) no sum is payable under an allotment note before the
     seafarer has earned any of the wages allotted by it.

 (5) A person providing services for the allotment of wages in
accordance with this section may charge the seafarer a fee if —

(a) such fee charged is reasonable; and
(b) the exchange rate used is either —

          (i) the prevailing market rate of the bank designated by
              the seafarer; or

          (ii) the exchange rate set out in the collective agreement
               for the duration of the agreement, provided that the
               exchange rate is not unfavourable to the seafarer.

Entitlement to annual leave

 22.—(1) A seafarer is entitled to paid annual leave, taken at such
time as may be agreed between the seafarer and the shipowner in
accordance with the terms of the seafarer’s employment agreement,
of at least 2.5 days per month of continuous service with the
shipowner which is in addition to leave that the seafarer is entitled
under subsection (4).

 (2) A seafarer is entitled to his or her gross rate of pay for every day
of annual leave.

                                         31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

28  Act 2014                                              2020 Ed.

 (3) A seafarer who has served a shipowner for a period shorter than
12 months of continuous service in any year or in the event of
termination of employment otherwise than for misconduct, is entitled
to annual leave in proportion to the number of completed months of
service in that year.

 (4) Leave of absence granted for the following purposes is not
counted as part of a seafarer’s annual leave:

    (a) time that seafarer is in transit to or from a ship, or on active
         stand-by for immediate deployment;

    (b) time-off given for illness, injury or maternity;

    (c) temporary shore leave by agreement between the
        shipowner and the seafarer under the seafarer’s
        employment agreement;

    (d) public holidays designated under the Holidays Act 1998;

    (e) absence from work to attend a maritime vocation training
        course that is approved by the Director;

    (f) time spent awaiting repatriation and travel time during
        repatriation;

    (g) leave granted under conditions that may be determined by
         the Director from time to time.

 (5) Where a seafarer is granted leave of absence without pay by the
shipowner at the request of the seafarer, the period of the leave is
disregarded for the purpose of computing continuous service under
this section.

 (6) A seafarer is entitled to take annual leave in the place to which
the seafarer has a substantial connection or is entitled to be
repatriated.

 (7) A person must not require a seafarer to take annual leave in a
place otherwise than that provided in the seafarer’s employment
agreement unless —

    (a) the seafarer gives consent;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      29

(b) the shipowner bears the costs of transporting the seafarer to
     the place where the seafarer was engaged or recruited,
     whichever is nearer the seafarer’s home; and

          (c) the shipowner bears the subsistence and all other directly
              related costs.

 (8) A person must not recall a seafarer who is on paid annual leave
except in cases of extreme emergency as may be determined by the
Director from time to time and provided that the seafarer’s consent
has been obtained.

 (9) The shipowner must grant and the seafarer must take annual
leave not later than 12 months after the end of every 12 months of
continuous service and any seafarer who fails to take that leave by the
end of such period ceases to be entitled to the leave.

 (10) Subject to subsection (9) and unless otherwise provided in an
agreement applicable to the shipowner and the seafarer concerned,
the seafarer is entitled to an uninterrupted period of annual leave.

 (11) In calculating the proportionate annual leave under
subsection (3), any fraction of a day which is less than one-half of
a day is disregarded and where the fraction of the day is one-half or
more it is regarded as one day.

Repatriation of seafarers

 23.—(1) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), a person who employs a
seafarer on a ship must not require the seafarer to work for a period of
12 months or longer before being entitled to repatriation.

 (2) A shipowner must repatriate a seafarer employed on a ship in
the following circumstances:

       (a) where the seafarer’s employment agreement of the seafarer
            concerned has expired;

       (b) where the seafarer’s employment agreement has been
            terminated by the seafarer for justified reasons or by the
            shipowner;

       (c) where the seafarer is no longer able to carry out his or her
            duties under his or her seafarer’s employment agreement or

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

30  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    cannot be expected to carry them out, in the following
    circumstances:

    (i) the seafarer has an illness or injury or other medical
        condition which requires his or her repatriation when
        found medically fit to travel;

    (ii) the seafarer is taken to any country in the event of
         shipwreck;

    (iii) the shipowner is not able to continue to fulfil the
          shipowner’s legal or contractual obligations as an
          employer of the seafarer by reason of insolvency,
          sale of ship, change of ship’s registration or any other
          similar reason;

    (iv) the ship is bound for a war zone, as defined by
         written law or the seafarer’s employment agreement,
         to which the seafarer does not consent to go;

    (v) the seafarer’s employment is terminated or
         interrupted in accordance with an industrial award
         or collective agreement;

    (vi) the seafarer is left behind in any country for any
         reason;

    (d) where, in violation of the requirements of this Act or the
         terms of the seafarer’s employment agreement —

    (i) the seafarer is left by the shipowner without the
         necessary maintenance and support (including
         adequate food, accommodation, drinking water
         supplies, essential fuel for survival on board the
         ship and necessary medical care); or

    (ii) where the seafarer’s ties with the shipowner have
         been unilaterally severed by the shipowner including
         where the shipowner has failed to pay the seafarer’s
         contractual wages for a period of at least 2 months;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                  31

          (e) where the seafarer is released from captivity after being
              held captive on or off a ship as a result of an act of piracy or
              armed robbery against the ship.

                                                                                               [29/2016; 16/2020]

 (3) A shipowner must repatriate a young seafarer who has served
without leave for 6 months, or any shorter period of time as
determined under his or her seafarer’s employment agreement or a
collective agreement, on board a ship that has not returned to the
seafarer’s country of residence during that time and will not return to
that country of residence in the next 3 months.

 (4) A young seafarer who is found to be unsuited to life at sea, after
having served on a ship for at least 4 months during his or her first
foreign-going voyage, must be given the opportunity to be repatriated
at no expense to the seafarer and in accordance with this section from
the first suitable port of call in which there are consular services of
Singapore or of the state of his or her nationality or residence.

 (5) A shipowner must notify the authority, of the state which issued
the papers enabling the young seafarer concerned to take up seagoing
employment, of the repatriation referred to in subsection (4) and the
reasons for the repatriation.

 (6) A seafarer is entitled to be repatriated to any of the following
places with which he or she has a substantial connection:

(a) the place at which the seafarer agreed to enter into the
     engagement;

(b) the place stipulated by an applicable collective agreement;

          (c) the seafarer’s country of residence;

(d) such other place as may be mutually agreed at the time of
     engagement;

          (e) such other place as may be determined by the Director as
              appropriate.

 (7) A seafarer has a right to choose from among the destinations
referred to in subsection (6), the place to which he or she is to be
repatriated.

                                                    31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

32  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

 (8) A seafarer is entitled to be repatriated by appropriate and
expeditious means.

 (9) A shipowner must bear the costs of repatriating a seafarer in the
shipowner’s employment until the seafarer is landed at a destination
in accordance with subsection (6), including expenses for any items
that may be prescribed.

 (10) A person must not require any seafarer to make an advance
payment towards the costs of repatriation and is not entitled to
recover, or to make any deduction for, the costs of repatriation from
the seafarer’s wages or other entitlements except where the seafarer
has been found, after due inquiry by the Director, to have been in
serious default of his or her employment obligations.

 (11) Where a seafarer referred to in subsection (2)(c)(ii) or (vi)
remains in the country mentioned in that subsection after the end of a
period of 3 months, the person who last employed him or her as a
seafarer is not liable under this section to make provision for the
seafarer’s return or for any matter arising after the end of that period,
unless the person has, before the end of that period, been under an
obligation imposed on the person under this section to make
provision with respect to the seafarer.

 (12) Where it appears to the Director that a shipowner is unable to
make, has failed to make, or fails to continue to make, provision
necessary for the repatriation of a seafarer in the shipowner’s
employment under this section, the Director may make such
provision and recover from the shipowner any costs and expenses
incurred by the Director in making that provision.

 (13) This section does not affect any right of a shipowner to recover
the costs of repatriation under third-party contractual arrangements.

 (14) A shipowner must cause a legible copy of this section and any
regulations relating to the repatriation of seafarers made under this
Act in English, and the working language of the ship if it is not
English, to be carried on board the ship and to be made available to
seafarers.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                 33

Compensation to seafarers in event of wreck or loss of ship, etc.

 24.—(1) Where a ship is wrecked or lost, a seafarer whose
employment on the ship is thereby terminated before the date
contemplated in the seafarer’s employment agreement under which
he or she is so employed is, subject to this section, entitled to wages,
at the rate payable under the agreement at the date of the wreck or
loss, for every day on which he or she is unemployed in the 2 months
following that date.

 (2) Where a ship is sold or ceases to be registered in Singapore and
a seafarer’s employment on the ship is thereby terminated before the
date contemplated in the seafarer’s employment agreement under
which he or she is so employed, then, unless otherwise provided in
the agreement, the seafarer is, subject to subsection (3), entitled to
wages at the rate payable under the agreement at the date on which his
or her employment is terminated for every day on which he or she is
unemployed in the 2 months following that date.

 (3) A seafarer is not entitled to wages under subsection (1) or (2) for
any day of unemployment, if it is shown that —

(a) the unemployment was not due to the wreck or loss of the
     ship or (as the case may be) to the sale of the ship or its
     ceasing to be registered in Singapore; or

(b) the seafarer was able to obtain suitable employment for
     that day but unreasonably refused to take it.

 (4) The master and a seafarer employed on a ship have the same lien
and remedies for their wages payable under this section, as a seaman
has for his or her wages.

 (5) This section does not affect the rights a seafarer may have under
any other rule of law.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

34  Act 2014                                   2020 Ed.

    PART 5

                                  CATERING
Requirement to carry qualified ship’s cook

 25.—(1) Subject to subsections (2) and (3), the shipowner and the
master of a Singapore ship which ordinarily operates with 10 or more
seafarers on board must ensure that the ship does not proceed to sea
unless a qualified ship’s cook is on board.

 (2) In circumstances of exceptional necessity, the Director may
grant an exemption from subsection (1) —

    (a) until the next port of call; or

    (b) for a period not exceeding one month,

but only if there is a person on board the ship who is trained or
instructed in areas such as food and personal hygiene and handling
and storage of food in accordance with this Act.

 (3) The shipowner and the master may, instead of complying with
the requirement in subsection (1) to have a qualified ship’s cook on
board, comply with any other requirement that the Director may
approve in respect of a particular ship, or ships of a particular
description, being a requirement that the Director considers
substantially equivalent to the requirement in subsection (1) when
considered together with the conditions and limitations to which the
approval may be subject.

 (4) An exemption or approval given by the Director under this
section must be in writing, may be subject to such conditions and
limitations as the Director may specify, and may be altered or
cancelled.

 (5) Any shipowner or master who contravenes subsection (1) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $5,000.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                         35

Training requirements for catering staff and other persons
processing food in galley

 26.—(1) A shipowner and the master of a ship must ensure that —

(a) each member of the catering staff is properly trained or
     instructed for his or her position in accordance with the
     prescribed requirements; and

(b) any person processing food in the galley is properly trained
     or instructed in areas such as food and personal hygiene
     and handling and storage of food in accordance with the
     prescribed requirements.

(2) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —

“catering staff” means seafarers whose normal duties include the
   preparation and storage of food, the service of meals to
   seafarers on board a ship or other work in the galley or in
   areas where food is stored or handled;

“qualified ship’s cook” means a person who has been issued
   with a certificate of proficiency mentioned in section 27
   which has not expired or been cancelled or suspended.

Certificate of proficiency as ship’s cook

 27. A person may apply to the Authority for a certificate of
proficiency as a ship’s cook if the person meets both of the following
requirements:

       (a) the person has served at sea for not less than the prescribed
            period, or any other period that may be determined by the
            Director taking into account any existing qualifications and
            relevant experience;

       (b) the person has successfully completed the prescribed
            training course for cooks and passed the prescribed
            examination.

                                                           31.12.2021
              Merchant Shipping

              (Maritime Labour Convention)

36            Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

              PART 6

              MEDICAL CARE AND TREATMENT

Medical care

 28. It is the duty of a shipowner to take, so far as is reasonably
practicable, measures that are necessary to ensure the safety and
health of all seafarers employed by the shipowner on board the
shipowner’s ship including —

    (a) measures on occupational health protection and medical
         care relevant to the seafarer’s duties;

    (b) ensuring that arrangements are made, where practicable,
         for seafarers to visit any qualified medical doctor or dentist
         without delay in ports of call; and

    (c) providing medical care and health protection services for
        any seafarer on board the ship or on land without charge to
        the seafarer.

Medical report forms

 29.—(1) A shipowner must make available on board the
shipowner’s ship, for the purposes of facilitating the treatment of
seafarers, such medical report forms as may be prescribed.

 (2) Every medical report form, or any part of the form, when
completed or any information contained in the completed form must
be kept confidential and must not, without the consent of the seafarer
concerned, be released to any person other than for the purposes of
facilitating the treatment of that seafarer.

 (3) Any person who contravenes subsection (2) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 years or to
both.

Medicine chest

 30.—(1) A medicine chest with readily understandable instructions
must be carried on board every ship.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      37

 (2) The master of a ship must ensure that the medicine chest and its
contents, as well as the medical equipment and medical guide, are
properly maintained and inspected at regular intervals that may be
prescribed by the Authority.

Medical treatment on board ship

 31. Where a ship is not required under the Merchant Shipping
Act 1995 to carry a qualified medical practitioner on board, the
shipowner must make arrangements for ensuring that —

       (a) a ship which is ordinarily capable of reaching qualified
            medical care and medical facilities within 8 hours must
            carry on board a seafarer who —

               (i) has completed such training in medical first-aid as
                   required by the STCW Code and approved by the
                   Director; and

              (ii) is appointed by the shipowner to be in charge of
                   medical first-aid training and administration of
                   medicine on board the ship; and

       (b) any ship, other than a ship mentioned in paragraph (a),
            must carry on board a seafarer who —

               (i) has completed such training in medical care as
                   required by the STCW Code and approved by the
                   Director; and

              (ii) is appointed by the shipowner to be in charge of
                   medical care on board the ship.

Medical advice through radio stations

 32.—(1) A shipowner must ensure that a complete and up-to-date
list of radio stations through which medical advice can be obtained is
carried on board the shipowner’s ship.

 (2) The shipowner of a ship that is equipped with a system of
satellite communication must ensure that a complete and up-to-date
list of coast earth stations through which medical advice can be
obtained is carried on board the ship.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

38  Act 2014                                           2020 Ed.

Access to medical care ashore

 33. A shipowner must take such measures as are necessary and
practicable to ensure that seafarers employed on the shipowner’s ship
have access when in port to —

    (a) outpatient treatment for sickness and injury;

    (b) hospitalisation when necessary; and

    (c) facilities for dental treatment.

Financial security requirement

 34.—(1) Unless the requirement in subsection (2) is met, a
shipowner must not allow the shipowner’s ship —

       (a) to go to sea; or

       (b) if it is already at sea, to remain at sea.

 (2) The requirement mentioned in subsection (1) is that there is in
force a contract of insurance or other financial security —

       (a) that is contracted with, or provided by, an approved
            financial security provider;

       (b) that is adequate to ensure that the shipowner will be able to
            meet any liabilities the shipowner may have —

               (i) arising from the shipowner’s obligation to repatriate
                   a seafarer; or

              (ii) to provide compensation in the event of death or
                   long-term disability to seafarers arising from
                   occupational injury, illness or hazard; and

       (c) that contains such terms and conditions, and meets such
            other requirements, as may be prescribed.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (3) The liabilities of the shipowner referred to in subsection (2)(b)
include liabilities arising under —

       (a) sections 23(9), 24(1), 35, 36 and 37;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      39

(b) the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 or the Work
     Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised
     Edition) repealed by that Act; and

          (c) the seafarer’s employment agreements of seafarers
              working on the ship.

                                                                                               [29/2016; 27/2019]

 (4) Where an approved financial security provider has made any
payment to a seafarer under a contract of insurance or other financial
security mentioned in subsection (2) for a liability arising from a
shipowner’s obligation to repatriate a seafarer, any right which the
seafarer has (or but for that payment would have had) against the
shipowner as a result of the liability is, with respect to the amount of
payment made, transferred to and vested in the approved financial
security provider.

                                                                                                           [16/2020]

 (5) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to
both.

 (6) In this section, “approved financial security provider” means a
provider of insurance or other financial security that has been
approved by the Director under section 34A for the purposes of this
section.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

Approved financial security provider

 34A.—(1) The Director may approve, with or without terms or
conditions, a person who provides insurance or other financial
security services as an approved financial security provider for the
purposes of section 34.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (2) In determining whether or not to approve any person as an
approved financial security provider, the Director —

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

40  Act 2014                           2020 Ed.

    (a) must have regard to whether —

    (i) the person is able and willing to meet the
        requirements of a financial security provider under
        this Act; and

    (ii) the insurance or other financial security provided by
         the person will comply with the requirements of this
         Act; and

    (b) may have regard to any other matter that the Director
         considers relevant.

                                                                                                     [29/2016]

 (3) The Director may, by written notice to an approved financial
security provider, vary any term or condition of approval.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (4) The Director may revoke the approval of a person as an
approved financial security provider if the Director is satisfied that —

    (a) the person is not able or willing, or has failed, to meet the
         requirements of a financial security provider under this
         Act;

    (b) the insurance or other financial security provided by the
         person does not comply with the requirements of this Act;

    (c) the person has breached any term or condition of approval;
        or

    (d) it is otherwise not suitable for the person to continue to be
         an approved financial security provider.

                                                                                                     [29/2016]

 (5) The Director must, before taking any action under
subsection (3) or (4), give written notice to the approved financial
security provider of the Director’s intention to take such action and
give the approved financial security provider an opportunity to
submit reasons why the terms or conditions of approval should not be
varied, or why the approval should not be revoked, as the case may
be.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.                 Act 2014                      41

 (6) A person aggrieved by any of the following decisions of the
Director (called in this section the appellant) may appeal to the
Minister against the decision:

(a) the refusal to approve the appellant as an approved
     financial security provider;

(b) the imposition of any term or condition on the approval of
     the appellant as an approved financial security provider;

          (c) the variation of any term or condition of approval of the
              appellant as an approved financial security provider;

      (d) the revocation of the approval of the appellant as an
           approved financial security provider.

                                                                                                         [29/2016]

(7) An appeal under this section —

(a) must be in writing;

(b) must specify the grounds on which it is made; and

       (c) must be made within 14 days after the date of receipt of the
            decision that is appealed against.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (8) An appellant who appeals to the Minister under this section
must provide such information as may be required by the Minister in
such manner and within such period as the Minister may specify.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (9) The Minister may reject an appeal of an appellant who fails to
comply with the requirements of subsection (7) or (8).

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (10) After consideration of an appeal, the Minister may —

       (a) reject the appeal and confirm the Director’s decision; or

(b) allow the appeal and substitute or vary the Director’s
     decision.

                                                                                                 [29/2016]

(11) The Minister’s decision on an appeal is final.

                                                     [29/2016]

                                                     31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

42  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

 (12) Every appellant must be notified of the Minister’s decision
under subsection (10).

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (13) An appeal against the Director’s decision does not affect the
operation of the decision appealed against until the determination of
the appeal.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

Shipowner’s duty to make provision for seafarer medical and
other expenses

 35.—(1) Subject to section 38 and subsections (3) and (4), a
shipowner is liable to meet any expenses reasonably incurred in
connection with a seafarer’s sickness or injury which —

       (a) first occurs during a period starting on the date on which
            the seafarer’s employment agreement of that seafarer
            commences and ending on the date on which the
            shipowner’s duty to repatriate that seafarer under
            section 23 ends; or

       (b) first occurs subsequent to the period mentioned in
            paragraph (a) but is caused by circumstances or events
            arising during that period.

 (2) Expenses incurred in connection with a sickness or an injury
include —

       (a) expenses of surgical, medical, dental or optical treatment
            (including the repair or replacement of any appliance); and

       (b) expenses for board and lodging.

 (3) The duty in subsection (1) does not affect any duty imposed on
the shipowner under section 23, and does not apply in respect of any
expenses met by the shipowner under that duty.

 (4) The duty in subsection (1) is limited to expenses incurred during
a period starting on the date on which the sickness or injury first
occurs and ending on the expiry of 16 weeks after that date.

 (5) If any expenses are incurred by a seafarer to which the duty in
subsection (1) applies, the seafarer may recover those expenses from
the shipowner as a civil debt.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                            43

Shipowner’s liability for wages following sickness or injury
sustained by seafarer

 36.—(1) Subject to section 38, this section applies in relation to a
seafarer who experiences sickness or injury which —

(a) first occurs during a period starting on the date on which
     the seafarer’s employment agreement of that seafarer
     commences and ending on the date on which the
     shipowner’s duty to repatriate that seafarer under
     section 23 ends, or if there is no such duty, the date on
     which the seafarer’s employment agreement ends; or

(b) first occurs subsequent to the period mentioned in
     paragraph (a) but is caused by circumstances or events
     arising during that period,

and results in the seafarer’s incapacity for work.

 (2) If the seafarer does not receive the full wages payable under the
seafarer’s employment agreement for the period starting on the date
of the injury or the first day of the sickness mentioned in
subsection (1) and ending on the date on which the seafarer is
repatriated under section 23 or otherwise leaves the ship, the
shipowner must pay to the seafarer the amount equal to the
difference between —

(a) any wages received by the seafarer for that period under
     that agreement; and

(b) the full wages which would have been payable to the
     seafarer under that agreement if the seafarer had remained
     fit for work throughout that period.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), if the seafarer remains incapacitated
for work for the reason described in subsection (1) after being
repatriated under section 23 or otherwise leaving the ship, and does
not receive the full wages payable under the seafarer’s employment
agreement for the period starting on the day after repatriation or
departure from the ship and ending on the date on which the seafarer
is again fit for work, the shipowner must pay to the seafarer the
amount equal to the difference between —

                                                    31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

44  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (a) any wages received by the seafarer for that period under
         that agreement; and

    (b) the full wages which would have been payable to the
         seafarer under that agreement if the seafarer had remained
         fit for work throughout that period.

 (4) The duty in subsection (3) ends on the expiry of the period of
16 weeks starting on the day following the date of the injury or the
first day of the sickness mentioned in subsection (1).

 (5) The amounts payable to the seafarer under subsections (2) and
(3) must be paid in the same manner and at the same frequency as
wages payable under the seafarer’s employment agreement.

 (6) A seafarer may recover any amount of money due from the
shipowner under subsection (2) or (3) as a civil debt.

 (7) A shipowner must take measures for safeguarding property left
on board by sick, injured or deceased seafarers and for returning the
property to the seafarers or to their next of kin.

Shipowner’s liability in respect of burial or cremation of
seafarer

 37. A shipowner is liable to pay any expenses reasonably incurred
in connection with a seafarer’s burial or cremation, if the seafarer dies
on board or ashore while employed to work on the shipowner’s ship.

Exclusion from liability under sections 35, 36 and 37

 38. Sections 35, 36 and 37 do not apply to a seafarer where —

       (a) the injury mentioned in section 35 or 36 was incurred
            otherwise than in the service of the ship;

       (b) the injury or sickness mentioned in section 35 or 36 was
            incurred due to the seafarer’s wilful misconduct; or

       (c) the sickness or incapacity for work existed on the date on
            which the seafarer entered the seafarer’s employment
            agreement, and the seafarer deliberately concealed the
            sickness or incapacity from the shipowner.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                         45

Limitation of seafarer’s right to recover

 39.—(1) Where a seafarer has received compensation under
section 16(1) of the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019, or
section 14(2) of the Work Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354,
2009 Revised Edition) repealed by the Work Injury Compensation
Act 2019, for the cost of medical treatment in respect of any sickness
or injury, the amount of compensation payable to the seafarer under
section 35 for the expenses incurred in connection with the sickness
or injury must be reduced by the amount so received.

                                                                                                           [27/2019]

 (2) Where a seafarer has received compensation under section 17 of
the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019, or section 14A of the Work
Injury Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition) repealed
by the Work Injury Compensation Act 2019, for any temporary
incapacity resulting from any sickness or injury, the amount of
compensation payable to the seafarer under section 36 for loss of
wages in respect of the sickness or injury must be reduced by the
amount so received.

                                                                                                           [27/2019]

 (3) Subject to subsections (1) and (2) and section 63 of the Work
Injury Compensation Act 2019, or section 33 of the Work Injury
Compensation Act (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition) repealed by the
Work Injury Compensation Act 2019, sections 35 and 36 do not affect
any other legal remedies that a seafarer may have under any other rule
of law in respect of the sickness or injury, provided that —

(a) if a seafarer brings any action for damages in a court in
     respect of any sickness or injury, any judgment, award or
     order that may be made against a shipowner in that action
     must take into account the payment made under section 35
     or 36; and

(b) a seafarer must not be compensated more than once in
     respect of the same expense or wages.

                                                                                                 [27/2019]

                                           31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

46  Act 2014                          2020 Ed.

    PART 7

    HEALTH AND SAFETY PROTECTION AND
               ACCIDENT PREVENTION

Shipowner’s duty to ensure safety and health of seafarers

 40.—(1) It is the duty of a shipowner to take, so far as is reasonably
practicable and in accordance with any standards prescribed by the
Authority, such measures as are necessary, and as may be prescribed,
to ensure the safety and health of the seafarers on board the
shipowner’s ship.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the measures necessary to
ensure the safety and health of seafarers on board a ship include —

    (a) providing and maintaining for seafarers a work
         environment which is safe, without risk to health and
         adequate as regards facilities and arrangements for their
         welfare at work;

    (b) ensuring that adequate safety measures are taken to prevent
         occupational accidents, injuries and diseases;

    (c) developing and implementing procedures for inspection,
        reporting and dealing with emergencies that may arise on
        board the ship; and

    (d) ensuring that the master and seafarers on board the ship
         have adequate instruction, information, training and
         supervision, especially with regard to young seafarers, as
         is necessary for them to comply with any prescribed
         measures.

Master’s duty to implement measures

 41.—(1) It is the duty of the master to ensure that the measures
taken by the shipowner as mentioned in section 40 are implemented
on board the ship.

 (2) The master, or a person designated by the master, must at
regular intervals inspect and correct unsafe conditions on board the
ship, and must report those occurrences to the shipowner.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                              47

Duties of seafarers at work on board ship

42. It is the duty of every seafarer at work on board a ship —

(a) to comply with the safety measures mentioned in
     section 40(2)(b) as taken by the shipowner; and

(b) to cooperate with the shipowner or the master to the extent
     as will enable the shipowner or the master (as the case may
     be) to comply with the provisions of this Act.

Safety committee

 43.—(1) Every ship which ordinarily operates with 5 or more
seafarers on board must have a safety committee for that ship.

 (2) Every safety committee must comprise the master, any person
designated by the master and seafarer representatives.

 (3) The functions of the safety committee appointed for a ship
are —

       (a) to keep under review circumstances on board the ship
            which affect or may affect the safety or health of the
            seafarers;

       (b) to carry out inspections of the scene of any accident in the
            interest of the safety and health of the seafarers; and

       (c) to exercise such other functions and duties as may be
            necessary to assist the shipowner in discharging the
            shipowner’s duties under this Part.

Codes of practice

 44.—(1) For the purpose of providing practical guidance with
respect to the requirements of this Part relating to measures necessary
to ensure the safety and health of seafarers, including measures on
occupational health protection and medical care, the Authority may
do all or any of the following:

       (a) issue one or more codes of practice, which may include any
            code of practice issued or approved under another written
            law if the Authority considers that code of practice suitable
            for this purpose;

                                           31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

48  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (b) approve as a code of practice any document prepared by
         any person or organisation other than the Authority if the
         Authority considers the document as a suitable document
         for this purpose;

    (c) amend or revoke any code of practice issued or approved
        under this section.

 (2) The power of the Authority under subsection (1)(a) or (b) to
issue or approve a code of practice that is either a code of practice
issued or approved under another written law or a document prepared
by any person or organisation other than the Authority includes the
power to issue or approve a part of that code of practice or document.

 (3) Where a code of practice is issued, approved, amended or
revoked by the Authority under subsection (1), the Authority must —

    (a) publish a notice of the issue, approval, amendment or
         revocation (as the case may be) of the code of practice in a
         manner that will secure adequate publicity for such issue,
         approval, amendment or revocation;

    (b) specify in the notice mentioned in paragraph (a) —

    (i) the date of issue, approval, amendment or
        revocation, as the case may be;

    (ii) the class of hazards, activities or articles in respect of
         which the code of practice is issued, approved,
         amended or revoked; and

    (iii) the place at and the time during which, or the Internet
          website where, the code of practice which is the
          subject of the notice may be inspected; and

    (c) ensure that, so long as the code of practice remains in force,
        copies of that code, and of all amendments to that code, are
        available for inspection by shipowners or seafarers free of
        charge.

 (4) No code of practice, no amendment to an approved code of
practice, and no revocation of any such approved code of practice, has
any force or effect until the notice relating to it is published in
accordance with subsection (3).
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                        49

 (5) An approved code of practice that is also either a code of
practice issued or approved under another written law or a document
prepared by any person or organisation other than the Authority must
consist of the contents of that code or document as that code or
document existed on the date it was issued or approved as an
approved code of practice under this section.

 (6) If any provision of any approved code of practice is inconsistent
with any provision of this Act, such provision, to the extent of the
inconsistency —

(a) has effect subject to the provisions of this Act; or

(b) having regard to the provisions of this Act, does not have
     effect.

 (7) Any approved code of practice is deemed not to be subsidiary
legislation.

Use of approved codes of practice in criminal proceedings

 45.—(1) A person shall not be liable to any criminal proceedings by
reason only that the person has failed to observe any approved code of
practice.

 (2) In any proceedings for an offence under this Act, an approved
code of practice that is relevant to any matter which is necessary for
the prosecution to prove in order to establish the commission of the
offence is admissible in evidence in the proceedings.

 (3) Without affecting any other method of proof, in any proceedings
for an offence under this Act —

       (a) the production of a document purporting to be a copy of a
            notice published by the Authority under section 44(3)(a) is
            to be taken to be such a notice until the contrary is proved;
            and

       (b) the production of a code of practice, or an amendment or a
            revocation of a code of practice, purporting to be the
            subject of a notice under section 44(3)(a) is to be taken to
            be the subject of that notice until the contrary is proved.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

50                         Act 2014  2020 Ed.

Investigation into occupational accidents, injuries and diseases
on board ships

 46.—(1) Where the Director becomes aware of any occupational
accident, injury or disease arising from service on board any ship, the
Director may appoint an inspector to investigate the cause and
circumstances of the occupational accident, injury or disease.

 (2) The Director or an inspector appointed by the Director under
subsection (1) may, for the purposes of an investigation under this
section —

    (a) board any ship;

    (b) inspect any ship;

    (c) summon any person before the Director or inspector and
        require the person to answer questions;

    (d) require any person to furnish a sworn statement relating to
         the cause or circumstances of the occupational accident,
         injury or disease; and

    (e) require the production of any book, logbook, certificate,
        register, document or other information relating to any ship
        or persons on board the ship.

 (3) Except with the Director’s permission, a person must not, unless
necessary for the prevention of any accident or for the safe navigation
of a ship —

    (a) alter, replace, remove or add to any machinery, equipment
         or article which may have contributed to the cause of any
         occupational accident, injury or disease; or

    (b) modify the scene of the occupational accident or injury or
         the place where the occupational disease occurred.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                           51

          PART 8

          INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION

Application and interpretation of this Part

 47.—(1) This Part (with the exception of section 49) applies to any
Singapore ship, ordinarily engaged in commercial activities, which is
of 500 gross tonnage or above, engaged in international voyages, or
operating from a port or between ports in another country, wherever
the ship may be.

 (2) Section 49 applies to any Singapore ship, ordinarily engaged in
commercial activities, wherever the ship may be.

 (3) In this Part —

“anniversary date” means the day and the month of each year
   corresponding to the date of expiry of the relevant certificate;

“international voyage” means a voyage from one country to a
   port or place outside that country.

Maritime Labour Certificate and Declaration of Maritime
Labour Compliance

 48.—(1) A ship must not go to sea unless —

       (a) the shipowner or the master has been issued with a valid
            Maritime Labour Certificate or interim Maritime Labour
            Certificate in respect of the ship; and

       (b) the shipowner causes to be carried on board the ship a
            Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance written in
            English.

 (2) If any ship goes or attempts to go to sea in contravention of
subsection (1), the shipowner and the master shall each be guilty of an
offence and shall each be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

 (3) The Director or the Port Master may detain a ship until the
documents referred to in subsection (1) are produced.

                                             31.12.2021
                        Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

52                      Act 2014           2020 Ed.

Power to inspect ships

 49.—(1) Every inspection of a ship must be carried out in the
manner provided in this Act.

 (2) The inspection of ships, as regards compliance with the
requirements of this Act and other relevant written law, may be
carried out by the Director, a surveyor of ships or a Recognised
Organisation.

 (3) The Director or a surveyor of ships may, for the purposes of an
inspection —

    (a) board any ship, without previous notice to the shipowner,
         master or person in charge of that ship, for the purposes of
         inspecting that ship;

    (b) inspect any ship, after giving previous notice to the
         shipowner, master or person in charge of that ship;

    (c) summon any person before the Director or surveyor and
        require the person to answer questions;

    (d) require the production of any book, logbook, certificate,
         register, document or other information relating to any
         ship;

    (e) take samples of any products, cargo, drinking water,
        provisions, materials or substances used or handled in the
        possession of any person on board any ship, as may be
        necessary with a view to analysing these samples;

    (f) require the display of notices, certificates or documents
        required by this Act or other relevant written law; and

    (g) require rectification of deficiencies that may be identified
         in the seafarers’ working and living conditions on any ship.

 (4) Any sample taken under this section must be disposed of and
accounted for in such manner as the Director may direct.

 (5) If, in the opinion of the Director or a surveyor of ships, the
working and living conditions on board a ship do not conform to the
requirements of this Act or other relevant written law, the Director or
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      53

surveyor of ships may by written notice require the shipowner to
rectify the non-conformity within the time specified in the notice.

 (6) Any shipowner who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply
with a notice issued to the shipowner under subsection (5) within the
time specified in the notice shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance

 50.—(1) The Director or a Recognised Organisation may issue a
Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance if satisfied that the
shipowner has adopted measures to ensure ongoing compliance with
the requirements of this Act and other relevant written law.

 (2) The Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance must be in
such form as may be prescribed by the Authority, and must
comprise —

       (a) Part I, which is issued by the Director or a Recognised
            Organisation and identifies the list of matters for
            inspection, the relevant provisions of this Act and other
            relevant written law, any ship-type specific requirements,
            any substantially equivalent provisions adopted, and any
            exemption granted by the Authority; and

       (b) Part II, which is drawn up by the shipowner and identifies
            measures undertaken by the shipowner to ensure ongoing
            compliance with the provisions of this Act and other
            relevant written law during the period between inspections,
            and measures proposed to ensure continuous
            improvement.

Interim Maritime Labour Certificate

 51.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Director or a Recognised
Organisation may issue an interim Maritime Labour Certificate in
respect of a ship when the ship —

       (a) is a newly-delivered ship;

       (b) changes flag; or

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

54  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (c) is new to a shipowner who assumes responsibility for the
        operation of the ship.

 (2) An interim Maritime Labour Certificate may be issued in
respect of a ship for a period not exceeding 6 months if —

    (a) the Director or a Recognised Organisation determines that
         the ship is, as far as reasonably practicable, in compliance
         with this Act and other relevant written law;

    (b) the shipowner has demonstrated to the Director or
         Recognised Organisation (as the case may be) that —

    (i) the ship has in place adequate procedures to comply
        with this Act and other relevant written law; and

    (ii) the master is familiar with the requirements of this
         Act and other relevant written law; and

    (c) the shipowner has submitted to the Director or Recognised
        Organisation (as the case may be) the necessary
        information to enable a Declaration of Maritime Labour
        Compliance to be issued.

 (3) A shipowner must, prior to the date of expiry of the interim
Maritime Labour Certificate issued in respect of the shipowner’s
ship, cause a full inspection of the ship to be carried out, to enable the
issuance of a Maritime Labour Certificate.

 (4) Only one interim Maritime Labour Certificate may be issued to
a shipowner in respect of a particular ship.

Issue of Maritime Labour Certificate

 52.—(1) The Director or a Recognised Organisation may issue a
Maritime Labour Certificate in respect of a ship if —

       (a) the Director or Organisation is fully satisfied, after an
            initial or a renewal inspection of the ship (as the case may
            be) that the ship complies with the requirements of this Act
            and other relevant written law; and

       (b) there is issued in respect of the ship, a Declaration of
            Maritime Labour Compliance.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                            55

(2) A ship must be subject to —

(a) an initial inspection before the ship is put in service;

(b) an intermediate inspection not later than the third
     anniversary date of the Maritime Labour Certificate; and

          (c) a renewal inspection at intervals of 5 years from the issue
              of the Maritime Labour Certificate.

 (3) An inspection referred to in subsection (2) must encompass a
complete inspection of the working and living conditions on board
the ship such as to ensure that the working and living conditions on
board the ship fully comply with the requirements of this Act and
other relevant written law.

 (4) The satisfactory completion of an intermediate inspection
mentioned in this section must be endorsed on the Maritime
Labour Certificate.

Validity of Maritime Labour Certificate

 53.—(1) Subject to subsections (6) and (8), a Maritime Labour
Certificate is valid, unless suspended or withdrawn, for a period not
exceeding 5 years.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (14), if a ship is found not to be in
compliance with the requirements of this Act or other relevant written
law, the Director or a Recognised Organisation must suspend the
Maritime Labour Certificate until such time corrective action is taken
to the satisfaction of the Director or Recognised Organisation, as the
case may be.

 (3) If the corrective action mentioned in subsection (2) is not taken
to the satisfaction of the Director or Recognised Organisation (as the
case may be) within the period of time specified by the Director or
Recognised Organisation (as the case may be) the Director may
withdraw the Maritime Labour Certificate.

 (4) Where the Director or Recognised Organisation suspends or
revalidates a Maritime Labour Certificate in respect of a ship, or
where the Director withdraws a Maritime Labour Certificate in
respect of a ship, the Director or Recognised Organisation (as the case

                                        31.12.2021
                        Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

56                      Act 2014           2020 Ed.

may be) must immediately notify the following persons of the
suspension, revalidation or withdrawal (as the case may be) of the
Maritime Labour Certificate:

    (a) the Director (where the suspension or revalidation was
         carried out by a Recognised Organisation);

    (b) the Recognised Organisation that issued that Maritime
         Labour Certificate in respect of the ship (where the
         suspension, revalidation or withdrawal was carried out
         by the Director);

    (c) the shipowner;

    (d) the master of the ship.

 (5) When a Maritime Labour Certificate is suspended or
withdrawn, the shipowner and master of the ship must on demand
deliver up the certificate to the Director or Recognised Organisation,
as the case may be.

 (6) Subject to subsections (8) and (9), when the renewal inspection
is completed not more than 3 months before the expiry of the
Maritime Labour Certificate, the new Maritime Labour Certificate is
valid from the date of completion of the renewal inspection to a date
not exceeding 5 years after the date of expiry of the existing Maritime
Labour Certificate.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (7) Subject to subsections (8) and (9), when the renewal inspection
is completed more than 3 months before the expiry of the Maritime
Labour Certificate, the new Maritime Labour Certificate is valid from
the date of completion of the renewal inspection to a date not
exceeding 5 years after the date of completion of the renewal
inspection.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (8) Where the renewal inspection in respect of a ship is completed
before the expiry of the existing Maritime Labour Certificate, but the
new Maritime Labour Certificate cannot immediately be issued and
made available on board that ship, the Director or a Recognised
Organisation may extend the validity of the existing Maritime Labour
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      57

Certificate for a period not exceeding 5 months after the date the
existing Maritime Labour Certificate would otherwise expire.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (9) Where the validity of the existing Maritime Labour Certificate
is extended under subsection (8), the new Maritime Labour
Certificate is valid for a period not exceeding 5 years after the date
of expiry of the existing Maritime Labour Certificate following the
grant of the extension under that subsection.

                                                                                                             [3/2019]

 (10) A Maritime Labour Certificate and an interim Maritime
Labour Certificate issued under this Part must be in the form
prescribed by the Authority.

 (11) A Maritime Labour Certificate issued under section 52 ceases
to be valid in any of the following circumstances:

(a) if the intermediate inspection is not completed within the
     period specified in section 52(2)(b);

(b) if the certificate is not endorsed in accordance with
     section 52(4);

          (c) upon the transfer of the ship to the flag of another country;

(d) if the shipowner ceases to assume responsibility for the
     operation of the ship;

          (e) when substantial changes have been made to the structure
              or equipment of the ship relating to accommodation,
              recreation, food or catering;

          (f) if the certificate is suspended, during the period of
              suspension;

(g) if the certificate is withdrawn.

 (12) An interim Maritime Labour Certificate issued under
section 51 ceases to be valid in any of the circumstances referred
to in subsection (11)(c) to (g).

 (13) A shipowner or master of a ship who becomes aware that the
ship does not comply with any requirement of this Act or other
relevant written law, must notify the Director of the nature of
non-compliance without delay.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

58  Act 2014                             2020 Ed.

 (14) On the application of the shipowner or master, the Director
may, if satisfied that due to any unforeseen circumstances it is not
reasonably practicable for the shipowner or master to comply with a
requirement of this Act or other relevant written law, and that the
working and living conditions of the seafarers on board will not be
adversely affected, grant a dispensation of that requirement —

    (a) until the next port of call; or

    (b) for a specified period,

provided that the period of dispensation does not exceed one month.

 (15) The Director may, in granting a dispensation under
subsection (14), impose any condition as the Director thinks fit.

Display of Maritime Labour Certificate and Declaration of
Maritime Labour Compliance

 54.—(1) A shipowner must cause to be displayed in a conspicuous
place on board the shipowner’s ship where it is available to
seafarers —

       (a) a valid Maritime Labour Certificate and a valid
            Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance in respect
            of that ship; or

       (b) a valid interim Maritime Labour Certificate in respect of
            that ship,

as the case may be.

 (2) A shipowner must cause to be carried on board the shipowner’s
ship —

       (a) a copy of the Convention; and

       (b) a copy of this Act, regulations made under this Act and
            other relevant written law.

 (3) The documents referred to in subsections (1) and (2) must be
readily available for inspection on board the ship, and must be
produced, on request, to seafarers employed on that ship, the Director,
a surveyor of ships, authorised officers in port States and shipowners’
and seafarers’ representatives.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                        59

          PART 9

          COMPLAINTS

On-board complaint procedures

 55.—(1) A shipowner must ensure that there are on board the
shipowner’s ship appropriate procedures to allow seafarers to make a
complaint against any person in connection with any possible breach
of any provision under this Act or other relevant written law.

(2) The procedures mentioned in subsection (1) include —

(a) a right to lodge a complaint directly with the master of the
     ship;

(b) a right to be represented or accompanied; and

          (c) adequate safeguards to ensure that the rights of the
              seafarers are not prejudiced by the making of complaints.

 (3) On the receipt of a complaint, the master must investigate the
complaint.

 (4) If a seafarer is not satisfied with the action taken by the master
as a result of the master’s investigation, or by the master’s failure to
take any action, the seafarer may state his or her dissatisfaction to the
master and indicate that he or she wishes to lodge a complaint to the
Director or if the ship is not in Singapore, to a port State authority.

 (5) On being notified of the seafarer’s dissatisfaction under
subsection (4), the master must make adequate arrangements to
enable the seafarer to lodge a complaint as soon as the service of the
ship permits.

 (6) The Director must, on receiving the complaint mentioned in
subsection (4), investigate the complaint.

 (7) A master of a ship who, without reasonable cause, fails to
comply with this section, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

                                                   31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

60  Act 2014                                             2020 Ed.

Provision of complaint procedures and other information

 56.—(1) A shipowner must cause a copy of the procedures
mentioned in section 55 to be provided to each seafarer employed
on the shipowner’s ship.

 (2) The copy of the procedures provided to the seafarers must be in
English and, if the working language of the ship is not English, also
be in the working language or languages of the ship, and must include
the following information:

    (a) contact information of the Authority;

    (b) contact information of the competent authority in the
         seafarer’s country of residence;

    (c) the names of persons on board the ship who may assist any
        seafarer with and advise the seafarer on a complaint.

                                   PART 10

                         INSPECTIONS IN PORT

Application of this Part
 57. This Part applies to —
       (a) any Singapore ship that is ordinarily engaged in
            commercial activities; and

       (b) any ship in Singapore, not being a Singapore ship, whether
            publicly or privately owned, that is ordinarily engaged in
            commercial activities.

Inspection of vessels in port
 58.—(1) A ship is subject to inspection by a surveyor of ships or

any person duly authorised by the Director.

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), any inspection is limited to verifying
that there are carried on board the ship —

       (a) a valid Maritime Labour Certificate or a valid interim
            Maritime Labour Certificate; and
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                61

(b) a valid Declaration of Maritime Labour Compliance,

issued under this Act in respect of a Singapore ship, or their
equivalent issued under the national laws of the flag State of the ship
if that ship is not a Singapore ship.

 (3) If any of the conditions mentioned in subsection (4) apply, the
ship may be subject to a detailed inspection by a surveyor of ships or a
person duly authorised by the Director, to determine whether the
ship —

(a) being a Singapore ship, is in compliance with the
     requirements of this Act and other relevant written law; or

(b) being a ship that is not a Singapore ship, is in compliance
     with the requirements of the Convention.

(4) The conditions referred to in subsection (3) are as follows:

(a) the documents referred to in subsection (2) are not
     produced;

(b) the documents referred to in subsection (2) are invalid, are
     not maintained, are falsely maintained, or do not contain
     particulars or information required by this Act or the
     Convention, as the case may be;

          (c) there are clear grounds for believing that the working and
              living conditions on board the ship do not conform to the
              requirements of this Act or other relevant written law, or of
              the Convention, as the case may be;

(d) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the ship has
     changed flag for the purpose of avoiding compliance with
     this Act or the Convention, as the case may be;

          (e) there is a complaint alleging that specific working and
              living conditions on board the ship do not comply with the
              requirements of this Act or other relevant written law, or of
              the Convention, as the case may be;

          (f) the working and living conditions on board the ship could
              constitute a clear hazard to the safety, health or security of
              seafarers;

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

62  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (g) the surveyor of ships or the person duly authorised by the
         Director has grounds to believe that any deficiencies
         present constitute a serious breach of the requirements of
         this Act or other relevant written law, or of the Convention,
         as the case may be.

 (5) An inspection conducted on a ship that is not a Singapore ship
pursuant to subsection (4)(a), (b), (c) or (d) must in principle cover
the matters specified in the Second Schedule.

 (6) An inspection conducted pursuant to subsection (4)(e) must
generally be limited to the scope of the complaint.

 (7) The surveyor of ships or the person duly authorised by the
Director may, for the purposes of an inspection —

    (a) board any ship, without previous notice to the shipowner,
         master or person in charge of that ship, for the purposes of
         inspecting that ship;

    (b) inspect any ship, after giving previous notice to the
         shipowner, master or person in charge of that ship;

    (c) summon any person before him or her and require the
        person to answer questions;

    (d) require the production of any book, logbook, certificate,
         register, document or other information relating to any
         ship;

    (e) take samples of any products, cargo, drinking water,
        provisions, materials or substances used or handled in the
        possession of any person on board any ship, as may be
        necessary with a view to analysing these samples;

    (f) require the display of notices, certificates or documents
        required by this Act or other relevant written law, or the
        Convention, as the case may be; and

    (g) require rectification of deficiencies that may be identified
         in the seafarers’ working and living conditions on any ship.

 (8) Any sample taken under this section must be disposed of and
accounted for in such manner as the Director may direct.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      63

 (9) In this section, “complaint” means any information submitted
by any seafarer, professional body, association, trade union, or person
with an interest in the safety of the ship or the safety and health of the
seafarers on board any ship.

Power to detain ships

 59.—(1) Where, following a more detailed inspection mentioned in
section 58(3), a ship is found not to conform to the requirements of
this Act or other relevant written law, or of the Convention (as the
case may be) and —

       (a) the conditions on board are clearly hazardous to the safety,
            health or security of seafarers; or

       (b) the non-conformity constitutes a serious or repeated breach
            of the requirements (inclusive of seafarers’ rights) of this
            Act or other relevant written law, or of the Convention, as
            the case may be,

the Director must serve on the shipowner and the master of the ship a
notice of detention requiring that the ship must not proceed to sea
until any non-conformity that falls within the scope of paragraph (a)
or (b) has been rectified, or until the Director has accepted a plan of
action to rectify the non-conformity and is satisfied that the plan will
be implemented in an expeditious manner.

 (2) If the ship, after service of the notice of detention, goes to sea
before it is released by the Director, the shipowner and the master
shall each be guilty of an offence and shall each be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $50,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (3) If it is proved that a ship was unduly detained or delayed under
this section, the Authority is liable to pay to the shipowner the
shipowner’s costs of and incidental to the detention of the ship, and
also compensation for any loss or damage sustained by the shipowner
by reason of the detention.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

64  Act 2014                                                   2020 Ed.

    PART 11

    MISCELLANEOUS

Offences by bodies corporate, etc.

 60.—(1) Where an offence under this Act committed by a body
corporate is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on his or her part,

the officer as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of the offence
and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (2) Where the affairs of a body corporate are managed by its
members, subsection (1) applies in relation to the acts and defaults of
a member in connection with the member’s functions of management
as if the member were a director of the body corporate.

 (3) Where an offence under this Act committed by a partnership is
proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         a partner; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on his or her part,

the partner as well as the partnership shall be guilty of the offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

 (4) Where an offence under this Act committed by an
unincorporated association (other than a partnership) is proved —

    (a) to have been committed with the consent or connivance of
         an officer of the unincorporated association or a member of
         its governing body; or

    (b) to be attributable to any neglect on the part of such an
         officer or member,

the officer or member as well as the unincorporated association shall
be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
                       Merchant Shipping

             (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.               Act 2014            65

 (5) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, by
regulations, provide for the application of any provision of this
section, with any modifications that the Authority considers
appropriate, to any body corporate or unincorporated association
formed or recognised under the law of a territory outside Singapore.

(6) In this section —

“body corporate” includes a limited liability partnership which
   has the meaning given by section 2(1) of the Limited
   Liability Partnerships Act 2005;

“officer” —

          (a) in relation to a body corporate — means any director,
               partner, member of the committee of management,
               chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
               officer of the body corporate and includes any person
               purporting to act in any such capacity; or

        (b) in relation to an unincorporated association (other
             than a partnership) — means the president, the
             secretary, or any member of the committee of the
             unincorporated association, or any person holding a
             position analogous to that of president, secretary or
             member of a committee and includes any person
             purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

Forgery, etc., of documents and fraudulent use

 61.—(1) Any person who forges, or fraudulently alters, or assists in
forging or fraudulently altering, or procures or suffers to be forged or
fraudulently altered —

       (a) any seafarer’s employment agreement, certificate,
            declaration or other document prescribed by this Act
            (including replacement or certified copies of those
            documents or certified extracts from those documents) or
            any entry or endorsement prescribed by this Act to be made
            in or on any of those documents; or

                                           31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

66                              Act 2014  2020 Ed.

    (b) any document produced to the Director for the purposes of
         obtaining for the person or any other person any certificate,
         book or other document issued under this Act (including
         replacement or certified copies of those documents) or for
         the purposes of obtaining an entry or endorsement in or on
         any of those documents,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who fraudulently uses or allows any other person to
fraudulently use —

    (a) any of the documents mentioned in subsection (1) which is
         forged, altered or otherwise false or misleading in any
         material particular; or

    (b) any of the documents mentioned in subsection (1)(a)
         which has expired or has been cancelled or suspended, or
         has become invalid for any reason,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (3) Any person who fraudulently uses any document mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) which is issued to or issued in relation to a person,
and the firstmentioned person is not that person named in the
document or to which the document relates, shall be guilty of an
offence.

 (4) Any person who allows any other person to fraudulently use any
of the documents mentioned in subsection (1)(a) which is issued to or
issued in relation to a person and that other person is not the person
named in that document or to which the document relates, shall be
guilty of an offence.

 (5) Any person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable
on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      67

Document obtained by fraud

 62. The Director may cancel any certificate issued under this Act
which is fraudulently obtained and the person to whom the certificate
has been issued must, on being notified by the Director of its
cancellation, forthwith deliver it or cause it to be delivered to the
Director.

Interfering with person in carrying out duty, etc.

 63. Any person who —

       (a) by violence, threat or intimidation hinders or interferes
            with or otherwise obstructs the master or an officer of a
            ship in performing his or her duty under this Act; or

       (b) resists or wilfully obstructs, assaults, molests or otherwise
            intimidates a person who is carrying out or exercising any
            duty, function, right or power imposed on that person by
            this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
2 years or to both.

Misleading officer, refusal to answer questions, produce
documents, etc.

 64. Any person who —

       (a) misleads any other person on whom a duty, function or
            power is imposed under this Act in any material particular
            which is likely to affect the discharge thereof;

       (b) refuses to answer any question lawfully put to the person,
            or to produce documents in the person’s possession or
            custody lawfully demanded of the person;

       (c) refuses to give all reasonable assistance to any other person
            who is carrying out any duty, function or power imposed
            on the other person under this Act; or

       (d) refuses to attend as a witness before the Director, an
            inspector, a surveyor of ships or a person duly authorised

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

68  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    by the Director under section 58, or to furnish a sworn
    statement when required by the Director or an inspector,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

Taking person performing duty to sea

 65.—(1) If any person performing his or her duties or functions
under this Act is taken to sea in a ship without his or her consent, the
shipowner and the master shall each be guilty of an offence and shall
each be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

 (2) Upon the conviction of the shipowner and the master for an
offence under subsection (1), the shipowner and the master are jointly
and severally liable to pay all expenses incidental to the person’s
return to duty.

Provision as to jurisdiction in case of offences

 66. For the purpose of conferring jurisdiction under this Act, every
offence is deemed to have been committed, and every cause of
complaint to have arisen, either in the place in which the offence
actually was committed or arose or in any place in which the offender
or person complained against may be.

Jurisdiction in case of offences on board ship

 67. Where any person is charged with having committed any
offence on board any Singapore ship on the high seas or elsewhere
outside Singapore and that person is found within the jurisdiction of
any court in Singapore which would have had cognizance of the
offence if it had been committed on board a Singapore ship within the
limits of its ordinary jurisdiction, that court has jurisdiction to try the
offence as if it had been so committed.

Jurisdiction of court

 68. Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      69

this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or punishment in
respect of the offence.

Composition of offences

 69.—(1) The Director may compound any offence under this Act
that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting from a
person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence a sum
not exceeding the lower of the following sums:

       (a) one half of the amount of the maximum fine that is
            prescribed for the offence;

       (b) a sum of $3,000.

 (2) On payment of the sum of money, no further proceedings are to
be taken against that person in respect of the offence.

 (3) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister, make
regulations to prescribe the offences that may be compounded.

 (4) All sums collected under this section must be paid to the
Consolidated Fund.

Sums ordered to be paid leviable by distress on ship

 70. Where any court has power to make an order directing payment
to be made of any seafarer’s wages, fines or other sums of money,
then, if the party so directed to pay the same is the shipowner
employing the seafarer, and the same is not paid at the time and in the
manner prescribed in the order, the court which made the order may,
in addition to payment, direct the amount remaining unpaid to be
levied by distress and sale of the ship and its equipment.

Depositions to be received in evidence when witness cannot be
produced

 71.—(1) Whenever in the course of any legal proceedings instituted
before any court, or before any person authorised by law or by
consent of parties to receive evidence, the testimony of any witness is
required in relation to the subject matter of that proceedings, then
upon due proof that the witness cannot be found in Singapore, any
deposition that the witness has previously made on oath in relation to

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

70  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

the same subject matter before any judge, magistrate or any consular
officer elsewhere is admissible in evidence subject to the following
provisions:

    (a) if the deposition was made in Singapore, it is not
         admissible in any proceedings instituted in Singapore; and

    (b) if the proceedings are criminal, it is not admissible unless it
         was made in the presence of the person accused.

 (2) A deposition so made must be authenticated by the signature of
the judge, magistrate or consular officer before whom it is made; and
the judge, magistrate or consular officer must certify, if the fact is so,
that the accused was present at the making of the deposition.

 (3) A deposition so made is deemed to be duly authenticated if it
purports to be signed by the judge, magistrate or consular officer
before whom it is made.

 (4) It is not necessary in any case to prove the signature or official
character of the person appearing to have signed the deposition, and
in any criminal proceedings a certificate under this section is, unless
the contrary is proved, sufficient evidence of the accused having been
present in the manner certified.

 (5) This section does not affect any case in which depositions taken
in any proceedings are rendered admissible in evidence by any
written law nor interfere with the practice of any court in which
depositions not authenticated as mentioned in this section are
admissible.

Proof of attestation not required

 72. Where any document is required by this Act to be executed in
the presence of or to be attested by any witness, that document may be
proved by the evidence of any person who is able to bear witness to
the requisite facts without calling the attesting witness.

Admissibility of documents in evidence
 73.—(1) The following documents are admissible in evidence:

       (a) any register under Part 2 of the Merchant Shipping
            Act 1995 on its production from the custody of the
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                    71

          Registrar of Singapore ships or other person having lawful
          custody of it;

(b) a certificate of registry under Part 2 of the Merchant
     Shipping Act 1995 purporting to be signed by the Registrar
     of Singapore ships;

          (c) any amendment to a certificate of registry purporting to be
              signed by the Registrar of Singapore ships;

(d) every declaration made pursuant to Part 2 of the Merchant
     Shipping Act 1995 in respect of a Singapore ship;

          (e) a declaration issued under section 50;

          (f) a certificate issued or purporting to be issued in accordance
              with sections 27, 51 and 52.

 (2) The documents mentioned in subsection (1) are, on their
production from the proper custody, admissible in evidence in any
court or before any person having by law or by consent of parties
authority to receive evidence, and, subject to all just exceptions, are
evidence of the matters stated in those documents pursuant to this Act
or by any officer pursuant to his or her duties as such officer.

 (3) A copy of any such document or extract from the document is
also admissible in evidence, if it is proved to be an examined copy or
extract, or if it purports to be signed and certified as a true copy or
extract by the officer to whose custody the original document was
entrusted, and that officer must furnish such certified copy or extract
to any person applying at a reasonable time for the certified copy or
extract, on payment of such fee as may be prescribed.

Service of documents

 74.—(1) Where for the purposes of this Act, any document is to be
served on any person, that document may be served —

       (a) in any case — by delivering a copy of the document
            personally to the person to be served, or by leaving the
            copy at the person’s last known place of residence or place
            of business;

                                                      31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

72  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (b) if the document is to be served on the master of a ship,
         where there is one, or on a person belonging to a ship — by
         leaving the document for the master or person on board
         that ship with any person being or appearing to be in
         command or charge of the ship; and

    (c) if the document is to be served on the master of a ship,
        where there is no master, and the ship is in Singapore — on
        the operator of the ship, or on some agent of the owner
        residing in Singapore, or by affixing a copy of the
        document at the means of access to the ship, or in any
        place on board the ship which appears to be frequented by
        people.

 (2) Any person who obstructs the service on the master of a ship of
any document shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $2,000.

 (3) Any shipowner or master of the ship who is party or privy to
such obstruction shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Mode of making declarations

 75.—(1) Any declaration required by this Act may be made before
the Director, a Justice of the Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a
surveyor of ships or any other person authorised to take or receive a
declaration by any law in force in Singapore.

 (2) Any declaration required by this Act may be made on behalf of a
body corporate by the director, manager, secretary or other officer, or
any other agent of the body corporate authorised by the body
corporate for that purpose.

Director may authorise person to exercise powers and duties

 76. The powers conferred and the duties imposed on the Director
under this Act may, subject to his or her directions, be exercised and
carried out by any officer of the Authority generally or specially
authorised by name or office by the Director.
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                                   73

Protection from personal liability

 77. No liability shall lie personally against the Director or any
member, officer or employee of the Authority acting under the
direction of the Director or the Authority for anything done or omitted
to be done with reasonable care and in good faith in the course of or in
connection with —

(a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
     Act;

(b) the performance or purported performance of any function
     or the discharge or purported discharge of any duty under
     this Act; or

          (c) the compliance or purported compliance with this Act.

Persons appointed or authorised under Act deemed public
servants

 78. Every person appointed or authorised under this Act for any of
the purposes of this Act, when acting pursuant to any such purpose, is
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Penal
Code 1871.

Powers of Authority to prescribe fees, recovery of fees and
application of moneys

 79.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make regulations prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of the issue
or recording of any certificate or other document or the doing of any
other thing pursuant to this Act.

 (2) All fees prescribed under this Act must be paid to the Authority.

 (3) All fees due to or which may be recovered by the Authority
under this Act are, without affecting any other remedy, recoverable in
the same manner as salvage is recoverable.

 (4) The Authority may, where it considers appropriate in a
particular case, waive, refund or remit the whole or any part of any
fee paid or payable to it.

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

74  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

 (5) All moneys recovered or received under this Act must be paid to
the Authority.

 (6) In this section, “fees” includes —

    (a) the fees in respect of any certificate or document issued
         under this Act; and

    (b) the fees in respect of services rendered to or in relation to a
         ship by the Director or a person authorised by the Director.

Exemption on application

 80.—(1) The Director may, on the application of any person,
exempt that person from complying with any requirement of this Act
or any regulations made under this Act.

 (2) An exemption under subsection (1) —

       (a) must not be inconsistent with Singapore’s obligations
            under the Convention;

       (b) may be granted subject to such terms or conditions as the
            Director considers appropriate;

       (c) has effect for such period as the Director considers
            appropriate; and

       (d) must be in writing and sent by the Director to the person to
            whom the exemption is granted.

 (3) The Director must notify any applicant in writing of its decision
under subsection (1) not to grant an exemption.

 (4) An exemption under subsection (1), unless previously revoked
in accordance with the terms of the exemption or under
subsection (5), continues in force for the period specified in the
exemption.

 (5) The Director may, on the application of any person —

       (a) extend the period for which an exemption granted under
            subsection (1) has effect;

       (b) vary or revoke any existing term or condition specified in
            an exemption granted under subsection (1);
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      75

          (c) revoke, whether wholly or partly, any exemption granted to
              a person under subsection (1); or

(d) impose additional terms or conditions in an exemption
     granted under subsection (1).

Amendment of Schedules

 81.—(1) The Minister may, after consulting the Authority, by order
in the Gazette, add to or amend any of the Schedules.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make such saving or transitional provisions as may be necessary or
expedient.

Regulations

 82.—(1) The Authority may, with the approval of the Minister,
make any regulations that may be necessary or expedient —

       (a) for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act and
            for the due administration of this Act;

       (b) for prescribing anything which may be prescribed under
            this Act; and

       (c) for the purpose of giving effect to any provision of the
            Convention which has not been given effect to in this Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), regulations may be made to —

       (a) prescribe the form of any document or certificate that may
            be required and to prescribe different forms for different
            circumstances;

       (b) make different provision for different descriptions of
            persons or ships or for persons or ships of the same
            description in different circumstances;

       (c) prescribe the standards of medical fitness and conditions to
            be satisfied by a seafarer;

       (d) prescribe the conditions to be complied with for
            recognition of medical practitioners qualified to assess
            the medical fitness of seafarers and for medical
            certification;

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

76  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    (e) prescribe the contents of a medical fitness certificate;

    (f) provide for the recognition by the Director of foreign
        medical fitness certificates on such conditions as the
        Director may determine;

    (g) provide for the registration of provisions in a collective
         agreement or other agreement between a seafarer and
         shipowner setting out exceptions to hours of rest;

    (h) regulate the conditions under which a young seafarer may
         be employed in night work;

    (i) regulate the manner and method for calculating wages for
        normal hours of work and overtime;

    (j) prescribe the information relating to wages that is to be
        provided to a seafarer;

    (k) regulate the manner and method of payment and allotment
        of wages;

    (l) prescribe the requirements for the repatriation of seafarers;

    (m) provide for the recognition by the Director of foreign
         qualifications for qualified cooks on such conditions as the
         Director may determine;

    (n) prescribe the requirements for the training of catering staff
         and persons processing food in the galley;

    (o) regulate the issuance, cancellation, suspension and
         alteration of a certificate of proficiency as a ship’s cook;

    (p) prescribe the costs of repatriation that may be recoverable
         by a seafarer from a shipowner;

    (q) prescribe the standards of training of seafarers in medical
         care and medical first-aid, and to regulate the issuance of
         certificates of proficiency in relation thereto;

    (r) prescribe the requirements for a medicine chest, medical
        equipment and medical guide to be carried on board a ship,
        and for their inspection and maintenance;
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                                77

          (s) define the types of injury or sickness of a seafarer that a
              shipowner may be liable to bear the costs or provide
              financial security for;

          (t) prescribe the occupational safety and health programmes
              to be adopted on a ship, and measures to prevent
              occupational accidents, injuries and diseases on board a
              ship;

(u) prescribe the standards relating to occupational safety and
     health on board a ship, having regard to recognised
     international standards;

          (v) prescribe the requirements for the reporting of any
              occupational accident, injury or disease on board a ship;

(w) provide for the implementation of safeguards and safety
     measures on board Singapore ships and the duties of the
     shipowner, master or seafarers in relation to the
     implementation of the safeguards and safety measures;

          (x) provide for the conduct of any risk assessment or safety
              and health arrangement on board Singapore ships and the
              duties of the shipowner, master or seafarers in relation to
              the conduct of the risk assessment or the safety and health
              arrangement;

          (y) regulate the keeping of records of any inspection
              conducted by a master under section 41(2);

          (z) prescribe the terms and conditions that a contract of
              insurance or other financial security mentioned in
              section 34(2) must contain, including —

          (i) terms and conditions relating to all or any of the
              following:

          (A) scope of coverage;

          (B) right of seafarers covered by the contract of
               insurance or other financial security to claim
               under the contract of insurance or other
               financial security;

          (C) submission and handling of claims;

                                                  31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

78  Act 2014                           2020 Ed.

    (D) interim payments;

    (E) minimum service standards;

    (ii) a condition that the liability of the provider of the
         insurance or other financial security under the
         contract of insurance or other financial security
         will not cease before the end of the period of validity
         of the contract of insurance or other financial
         security, unless the provider has given the Director
         prior notice of the pending cessation of liability of
         such minimum length as may be prescribed; and

    (iii) any other term or condition necessary or desirable to
          ensure that the contract of insurance or other
          financial security meets the requirements of
          section 34;

    (za) prescribe the terms and conditions that a contract of
          insurance or other financial security mentioned in
          section 34(2) must not contain;

    (zb) provide that terms and conditions contained in a contract of
          insurance or financial security mentioned in section 34(2)
          in breach of any prescription mentioned in paragraph (za)
          are to be treated as having no effect;

    (zc) provide for —

    (i) a certificate of the contract of insurance or other
        financial security mentioned in section 34(2) to be
        carried, and displayed, on board the ship to which the
        certificate relates; and

    (ii) the form of the certificate;

    (zd) require a shipowner to give prior notification of the
          cancellation or termination of the contract of insurance or
          other financial security mentioned in section 34(2) to the
          seafarers to whom the contract of insurance or other
          financial security relates; and

    (ze) require the person who provides insurance or other
          financial security under a contract of insurance or other
          Merchant Shipping

          (Maritime Labour Convention)

2020 Ed.  Act 2014                      79

            financial security mentioned in section 34(2) to give notice
            to the Director if the contract of insurance or other
            financial security is cancelled or terminated.

                                                                                                           [29/2016]

 (3) The Authority may, in making any regulations under this
section, provide that any contravention of any of the provisions of the
regulations shall be an offence punishable with a fine not exceeding
$10,000.

Saving and transitional provisions

 83.—(1) Any seaman’s discharge book or any certificate of
discharge issued under regulations made under section 54 of the
Merchant Shipping Act 1995 before 1 April 2014 is deemed to be a
seafarer’s discharge book or a certificate of discharge issued under
regulations made under section 14(14) of this Act.

 (2) Where a seaman is discharged before 1 April 2014 from a ship
to which this Act applies, the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 in force
immediately before that date continues to apply in respect of any
unpaid wages due to that seaman under a crew agreement relating to
the ship.

 (3) Where an allotment note is issued before 1 April 2014 in
accordance with regulations made under section 62 of the Merchant
Shipping Act 1995 in respect of wages which a seaman will become
entitled in the course of employment on a ship to which this Act
applies, the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 in force immediately before
that date continues to apply in relation to the allotment note, including
its enforcement.

 (4) Where a seaman suffers sickness or an injury before 1 April
2014, section 75 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 in force
immediately before that date continues to apply in relation to the
liability for expenses and compensation relating to such sickness or
injury.

 (5) Sections 35 and 36 of this Act apply in relation to a sickness or
injury occurring on or after 1 April 2014.

                                                                               [86

                                        31.12.2021
    Merchant Shipping

    (Maritime Labour Convention)

80  Act 2014                      2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                       Sections 2(1) and 81(1)

            LIST OF OTHER WRITTEN LAW IMPLEMENTING
                  REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONVENTION

1. Sections 47 to 51, 70 and 71 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995
2. Merchant Shipping (Training, Certification and Manning) Regulations

3. Merchant Shipping (Provisions and Water) Regulations

4. Merchant Shipping (Crew Accommodation) Regulations

5. Work Injury Compensation Act 2019 or the Work Injury Compensation Act
   (Cap. 354, 2009 Revised Edition) repealed by that Act

                                                                                                        [27/2019]

                          SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                               Sections 14(5), 58(5) and 81(1)

  GENERAL AREAS SUBJECT TO DETAILED INSPECTION IN PORT
 1. Minimum age
 2. Medical certification
 3. Qualifications of seafarers
 4. Seafarer’s employment agreements
 5. Use of any licensed or certified or regulated private recruitment and

     placement service
 6. Hours of work or rest
 7. Manning levels for the ship
 8. Accommodation
 9. On-board recreational facilities
10. Food and catering
2020 Ed.         Merchant Shipping                              81
          (Maritime Labour Convention)
                                                          [29/2016]
                       Act 2014

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

11. Health and safety and accident prevention

12. On-board medical care

13. On-board complaint procedures

14. Payment of wages

15. Financial security for repatriation

16. Financial security relating to shipowner’s liability

                                                          31.12.2021
               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               MERCHANT SHIPPING
      (MARITIME LABOUR CONVENTION)

                         ACT 2014

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 6 of 2014 — Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention) Act
                         2014

Bill           : 27/2013

First Reading  : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement   : 1 April 2014

2. Act 29 of 2016 — Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention)
                           (Amendment) Act 2016

Bill           : 29/2016

First Reading  : 10 October 2016

Second and Third Readings : 10 November 2016

Commencement   : 18 January 2017

3. Act 3 of 2019 — Merchant Shipping (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                          2019

   (Amendments made by sections 2 and 3 of the above Act)

Bill           : 49/2018

First Reading  : 19 November 2018

Second and Third Readings : 14 January 2019

Commencement   : 1 April 2019 (sections 2 and 3)

4. Act 27 of 2019 — Work Injury Compensation Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 83(3) of the above Act)

Bill           : 21/2019

First Reading  : 5 August 2019

Second and Third Readings : 3 September 2019

Commencement   : 1 September 2020 (section 83(3))

                                                        31.12.2021
                                     ii

5. Act 16 of 2020 — Merchant Shipping (Maritime Labour Convention)
                           (Amendment) Act 2020

       Bill                          : 1/2020

       First Reading                 : 6 January 2020

       Second and Third Readings : 25 March 2020

       Commencement                  : 26 December 2020

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
                  COMPARATIVE TABLE

                  MERCHANT SHIPPING
         (MARITIME LABOUR CONVENTION)

                            ACT 2014

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.                 Act 6 of 2014
                   14—(12A)
14—(13)
   (14)               (13)
   (15)               (14)
                   20—(7A)
20—(8)                (8)
   (9)             34—(3A)
                      (4)
34—(4)                (5)
   (5)             53—(7A)
   (6)                (7B)
                      (8)
53—(8)                (9)
   (9)                (10)
   (10)               (11)
   (11)               (12)
   (12)               (13)
   (13)            58—(6)
   (14)               (7)
   (15)               (8)
                      (9)
58—(5)                (5)
   (6)             60—(6)
   (7)
   (8)
   (9)

60—(5)

                                                 31.12.2021
                                ii

                 2020 Ed.                Act 6 of 2014
   (6)
79—(5)                             (5)
   (6)                          79—(6)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (5)
[Omitted as having had effect]  83
[Omitted as having had effect]  84—(1)
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]     (2)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (3)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (4)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (5)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (6)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (7)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (8)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (9)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (10)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (11)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (12)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (13)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (14)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (15)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (16)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (17)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (18)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (19)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (20)
[Omitted as having had effect]     (21)
                                   (22)
                                85—(1)
                                   (2)
                 2020 Ed.       iii        Act 6 of 2014
83
[Omitted as spent]                86
                                     (3)
   (3)                               (4)
[Omitted as spent]                   (5)
[Omitted as spent]                   (6)
                                     (7)
   (4)                               (8)
   (5)                               (9)
[Omitted as spent]                   (10)
[Omitted as having had effect]
