THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
               CARRIAGE OF GOODS BY SEA
                               ACT 1972

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                        2020 Ed.

         Carriage of Goods by Sea
                   Act 1972

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Definition
     4.  Application of Rules
         Absolute warranty of seaworthiness not to be implied in
     5.  contracts to which Rules apply
         Modification of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article III of Rules in
     6.  relation to bulk cargoes
         Saving and operation of other written law
         The Schedule — The Hague Rules as amended by

                               the Brussels Protocol 1968

An Act to make further provision with respect to the carriage of goods
  by sea.
                                                            [16 January 1978]

Short title
 1. This Act is the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1972.

Definition
 2. In this Act, “Rules” means the International Convention for the

unification of certain rules of law relating to bills of lading made at
Brussels on 25 August 1924, as amended by the Protocol made at
Brussels on 23 February 1968, and as set out in the Schedule.

Application of Rules
 3.—(1) The provisions of the Rules, as set out in the Schedule to

this Act, have the force of law.

         1

                                                  31.12.2021
   Carriage of Goods by Sea

2  Act 1972                                       2020 Ed.

 (2) Without affecting subsection (1), the provisions of the Rules
also have effect (and have the force of law) in relation to and in
connection with the carriage of goods by sea in ships where the port
of shipment is a port in Singapore, whether or not the carriage is
between ports in 2 different States within the meaning of Article X of
the Rules.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), nothing in this section is to be
construed as applying anything in the Rules to any contract for the
carriage of goods by sea, unless the contract expressly or by
implication provides for the issue of a bill of lading or any similar
document of title.

 (4) Without affecting paragraph (c) of Article X of the Rules, the
Rules have the force of law in relation to —

   (a) any bill of lading if the contract contained in or evidenced
        by it expressly provides that the Rules govern the contract;
        and

         (b) any receipt which is a non-negotiable document marked as
              such if the contract contained in or evidenced by it is a
              contract for the carriage of goods by sea which expressly
              provides that the Rules are to govern the contract.

   (5) Where subsection (4)(b) applies, the Rules apply —

   (a) as if the receipt mentioned in subsection (4)(b) were a bill
        of lading; and

   (b) subject to any necessary modifications and in particular
        with the omission of —

   (i) the second sentence of paragraph 4 of Article III of
       the Rules; and

   (ii) paragraph 7 of Article III of the Rules.

 (6) If and so far as the contract contained in or evidenced by a bill of
lading or receipt mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (4)
applies to deck cargo or live animals, the Rules as given the force of
law by that subsection have effect as if Article I(c) did not exclude
deck cargo and live animals.
          Carriage of Goods by Sea

2020 Ed.  Act 1972                  3

 (7) In subsection (6), “deck cargo” means cargo which by the
contract of carriage is stated as being carried on deck and is so
carried.

 (8) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, specify the
respective amounts which, for the purposes of paragraph 5 of
Article IV and of Article IV bis of the Rules, are to be taken as
equivalent to the sums expressed in francs which are mentioned in
paragraph 5(a) of Article IV.

Absolute warranty of seaworthiness not to be implied in
contracts to which Rules apply

 4. There shall not be implied in any contract for the carriage of
goods by sea to which the Rules apply any absolute undertaking by
the carrier of the goods to provide a seaworthy ship.

Modification of paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article III of Rules in
relation to bulk cargoes

 5. Where under the custom of any trade the weight of any bulk
cargo inserted in the bill of lading is a weight ascertained or accepted
by a third party other than the carrier or the shipper and the fact that
the weight is so ascertained or accepted is stated in the bill of lading,
then, despite anything in the Rules, the bill of lading is not to be
deemed to be prima facie evidence against the carrier of the receipt of
goods of the weight so inserted in the bill of lading, and the accuracy
thereof at the time of shipment is not to be deemed to have been
guaranteed by the shipper.

Saving and operation of other written law

 6. Nothing in this Act affects the operation of sections 135 and 136
of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 as amended by any subsequent
Act, or the operation of any other enactment for the time being in
force limiting the liability of the owners of sea-going vessels.

                                    31.12.2021
   Carriage of Goods by Sea

4  Act 1972                  2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 2 and 3(1)

                      THE HAGUE RULES AS AMENDED BY
                          THE BRUSSELS PROTOCOL 1968

                                         ARTICLE I

       In these Rules the following words are employed, with the meanings set out
below:

        (a) “Carrier” includes the owner or the charterer who enters into a contract
             of carriage with a shipper.

        (b) “Contract of carriage” applies only to contracts of carriage covered by
             a bill of lading or any similar document of title, in so far as such
             document relates to the carriage of goods by sea, including any bill of
             lading or any similar document as aforesaid issued under or pursuant to
             a charter party from the moment at which such bill of lading or similar
             document of title regulates the relations between a carrier and a holder
             of the same.

        (c) “Goods” includes goods, wares, merchandise, and articles of every
             kind whatsoever except live animals and cargo which by the contract
             of carriage is stated as being carried on deck and is so carried.

        (d) “Ship” means any vessel used for the carriage of goods by sea.

        (e) “Carriage of goods” covers the period from the time when the goods
             are loaded on to the time they are discharged from the ship.

                                         ARTICLE II

        Subject to the provisions of Article VI, under every contract of carriage of
goods by sea the carrier, in relation to the loading, handling, stowage, carriage,
custody, care and discharge of such goods, shall be subject to the responsibilities
and liabilities, and entitled to the rights and immunities hereinafter set forth.

   ARTICLE III

 1. The carrier shall be bound before and at the beginning of the voyage to
exercise due diligence to —

        (a) Make the ship seaworthy.

        (b) Properly man, equip and supply the ship.

        (c) Make the holds, refrigerating and cool chambers, and all other parts of
             the ship in which goods are carried, fit and safe for their reception,
             carriage and preservation.
          Carriage of Goods by Sea

2020 Ed.  Act 1972                                  5

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 2. Subject to the provisions of Article IV, the carrier shall properly and carefully
load, handle, stow, carry, keep, care for, and discharge the goods carried.

 3. After receiving the goods into his charge the carrier or the master or agent of
the carrier shall, on demand of the shipper, issue to the shipper a bill of lading
showing among other things —

(a) The leading marks necessary for identification of the goods as the
     same are furnished in writing by the shipper before the loading of such
     goods starts, provided such marks are stamped or otherwise shown
     clearly upon the goods if uncovered, or on the cases or coverings in
     which such goods are contained, in such a manner as should ordinarily
     remain legible until the end of the voyage.

(b) Either the number of packages or pieces, or the quantity, or weight, as
     the case may be, as furnished in writing by the shipper.

(c) The apparent order and condition of the goods.

  Provided that no carrier, master or agent of the carrier shall be bound to state or
show in the bill of lading any marks, number, quantity, or weight which he has
reasonable ground for suspecting not accurately to represent the goods actually
received, or which he has had no reasonable means of checking.

 4. Such a bill of lading shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt by the carrier
of the goods as therein described in accordance with paragraph 3 (a), (b) and (c).
However, proof to the contrary shall not be admissible when the bill of lading has
been transferred to a third party acting in good faith.

 5. The shipper shall be deemed to have guaranteed to the carrier the accuracy at
the time of shipment of the marks, number, quantity and weight, as furnished by
him, and the shipper shall indemnify the carrier against all loss, damages and
expenses arising or resulting from inaccuracies in such particulars. The right of the
carrier to such indemnity shall in no way limit his responsibility and liability under
the contract of carriage to any person other than the shipper.

 6. Unless notice of loss or damage and the general nature of such loss or damage
be given in writing to the carrier or his agent at the port of discharge before or at
the time of the removal of the goods into the custody of the person entitled to
delivery thereof under the contract of carriage, or, if the loss or damage be not
apparent, within 3 days, such removal shall be prima facie evidence of the delivery
by the carrier of the goods as described in the bill of lading.

  The notice in writing need not be given if the state of the goods has, at the time
of their receipt, been the subject of joint survey or inspection.

   Subject to paragraph 6bis the carrier and the ship shall in any event be
discharged from all liability whatsoever in respect of the goods, unless suit is

                                                    31.12.2021
   Carriage of Goods by Sea

6  Act 1972                  2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE — continued

brought within one year of their delivery or of the date when they should have
been delivered. This period may, however, be extended if the parties so agree after
the cause of action has risen.

   In the case of any actual or apprehended loss or damage the carrier and the
receiver shall give all reasonable facilities to each other for inspecting and tallying
the goods.

 6bis. An action for indemnity against a third person may be brought even after
the expiration of the year provided for in the preceding paragraph if brought within
the time allowed by the law of the Court seized of the case. However, the time
allowed shall be not less than 3 months, commencing from the day when the
person bringing such action for indemnity has settled the claim or has been served
with process in the action against himself.

 7. After the goods are loaded the bill of lading to be issued by the carrier, master,
or agent of the carrier, to the shipper shall, if the shipper so demands, be a
“shipped” bill of lading, provided that if the shipper shall have previously taken up
any document of title to such goods, he shall surrender the same as against the
issue of the “shipped” bill of lading, but at the option of the carrier such document
of title may be noted at the port of shipment by the carrier, master, or agent with
the name or names of the ship or ships upon which the goods have been shipped
and the date or dates of shipment, and when so noted, if it shows the particulars
mentioned in paragraph 3 of Article III, shall for the purpose of this article be
deemed to constitute a “shipped” bill of lading.

 8. Any clause, covenant, or agreement in a contract of carriage relieving the
carrier or the ship from liability for loss or damage to, or in connection with, goods
arising from negligence, fault, or failure in the duties and obligations provided in
this article or lessening such liability otherwise than as provided in these Rules,
shall be null and void and of no effect. A benefit of insurance in favour of the
carrier or similar clause shall be deemed to be a clause relieving the carrier from
liability.

   ARTICLE IV

 1. Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be liable for loss or damage arising or
resulting from unseaworthiness unless caused by want of due diligence on the part
of the carrier to make the ship seaworthy, and to secure that the ship is properly
manned, equipped and supplied, and to make the holds, refrigerating and cool
chambers and all other parts of the ship in which goods are carried fit and safe for
their reception, carriage and preservation in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Article III. Whenever loss or damage has resulted from
unseaworthiness the burden of proving the exercise of due diligence shall be on
the carrier or other person claiming exemption under this Article.
                 Carriage of Goods by Sea

2020 Ed.                              Act 1972                           7

                 THE SCHEDULE — continued

 2. Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be responsible for loss or damage arising
or resulting from —

(a) Act, neglect, or default of the master, mariner, pilot, or the servants of
     the carrier in the navigation or in the management of the ship.

(b) Fire, unless caused by the actual fault or privity of the carrier.

(c) Perils, dangers and accidents of the sea or other navigable waters.

(d) Act of God.

(e) Act of war.

          (f) Act of public enemies.

(g) Arrest or restraint of princes, rulers or people, or seizure under legal
     process.

(h) Quarantine restrictions.

          (i) Act or omission of the shipper or owner of the goods, his agent or
              representative.

          (j) Strikes or lockouts or stoppage or restraint of labour from whatever
              cause, whether partial or general.

(k) Riots and civil commotions.

          (l) Saving or attempting to save life or property at sea.

(m) Wastage in bulk or weight or any other loss or damage arising from
     inherent defect, quality or vice of the goods.

(n) Insufficiency of packing.

(o) Insufficiency or inadequacy of marks.

(p) Latent defects not discoverable by due diligence.

(q) Any other cause arising without the actual fault or privity of the carrier,
     or without the fault or neglect of the agents or servants of the carrier,
     but the burden of proof shall be on the person claiming the benefit of
     this exception to show that neither the actual fault or privity of the
     carrier nor the fault or neglect of the agents or servants of the carrier
     contributed to the loss or damage.

 3. The shipper shall not be responsible for loss or damage sustained by the
carrier or the ship arising or resulting from any cause without the act, fault or
neglect of the shipper, his agents or his servants.

 4. Any deviation in saving or attempting to save life or property at sea or any
reasonable deviation shall not be deemed to be an infringement or breach of these

                                                                     31.12.2021
   Carriage of Goods by Sea

8  Act 1972                  2020 Ed.

   THE SCHEDULE — continued

Rules or of the contract of carriage, and the carrier shall not be liable for any loss
or damage resulting therefrom.

 5.—(a) Unless the nature and value of such goods have been declared by the
shipper before shipment and inserted in the bill of lading, neither the carrier nor
the ship shall in any event be or become liable for any loss or damage to or in
connection with the goods in an amount exceeding the equivalent of 10,000 francs
per package or unit or 30 francs per kilo of gross weight of the goods lost or
damaged, whichever is the higher.

 (b) The total amount recoverable shall be calculated by reference to the value of
such goods at the place and time at which the goods are discharged from the ship in
accordance with the contract or should have been so discharged.

   The value of the goods shall be fixed according to the commodity exchange
price, or, if there be no such price, according to the current market price, or, if there
be no commodity exchange price or current market price, by reference to the
normal value of goods of the same kind and quality.

 (c) Where a container, pallet or similar article of transport is used to consolidate
goods, the number of packages or units enumerated in the bill of lading as packed
in such article of transport shall be deemed the number of packages or units for the
purpose of this paragraph as far as these packages or units are concerned. Except
as aforesaid such article of transport shall be considered the package or unit.

 (d) A franc means a unit consisting of 65.5 milligrammes of gold of millesimal
fineness 900. The date of conversion of the sum awarded into national currencies
shall be governed by the law of the Court seized of the case.

 (e) Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be entitled to the benefit of the limitation
of liability provided for in this paragraph if it is proved that the damage resulted
from an act or omission of the carrier done with intent to cause damage, or
recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result.

 (f) The declaration mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
embodied in the bill of lading, shall be prima facie evidence, but shall not be
binding or conclusive on the carrier.

 (g) By agreement between the carrier, master or agent of the carrier and the
shipper other maximum amounts than those mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) of
this paragraph may be fixed, provided that no maximum amount so fixed shall be
less than the appropriate maximum mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

 (h) Neither the carrier nor the ship shall be responsible in any event for loss or
damage to, or in connection with, goods if the nature or value thereof has been
knowingly mis-stated by the shipper in the bill of lading.
          Carriage of Goods by Sea

2020 Ed.  Act 1972                  9

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

 6. Goods of an inflammable, explosive or dangerous nature to the shipment
whereof the carrier, master or agent of the carrier has not consented with
knowledge of their nature and character, may at any time before discharge be
landed at any place, or destroyed or rendered innocuous by the carrier without
compensation and the shipper of such goods shall be liable for all damages and
expenses directly or indirectly arising out of or resulting from such shipment. If
any such goods shipped with such knowledge and consent shall become a danger
to the ship or cargo, they may in like manner be landed at any place, or destroyed
or rendered innocuous by the carrier without liability on the part of the carrier
except to general average, if any.

                                      ARTICLE IV BIS

 1. The defences and limits of liability provided for in these Rules shall apply in
any action against the carrier in respect of loss or damage to goods covered by a
contract of carriage whether the action be founded in contract or in tort.

 2. If such an action is brought against a servant or agent of the carrier (such
servant or agent not being an independent contractor), such servant or agent shall
be entitled to avail himself of the defences and limits of liability which the carrier
is entitled to invoke under these Rules.

 3. The aggregate of the amounts recoverable from the carrier, and such servants
and agents, shall in no case exceed the limit provided for in these Rules.

 4. Nevertheless, a servant or agent of the carrier shall not be entitled to avail
himself of the provisions of this article, if it is proved that the damage resulted
from an act or omission of the servant or agent done with intent to cause damage or
recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result.

                                         ARTICLE V

        A carrier shall be at liberty to surrender in whole or in part all or any of his
rights and immunities or to increase any of his responsibilities and obligations
under these Rules, provided such surrender or increase shall be embodied in the
bill of lading issued to the shipper. The provisions of these Rules shall not be
applicable to charter parties, but if bills of lading are issued in the case of a ship
under a charter party they shall comply with the terms of these Rules. Nothing in
these Rules shall be held to prevent the insertion in a bill of lading of any lawful
provision regarding general average.

                                    31.12.2021
    Carriage of Goods by Sea

10  Act 1972                                                     2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    ARTICLE VI

        Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding Articles, a carrier, master
or agent of the carrier and a shipper shall in regard to any particular goods be at
liberty to enter into any agreement in any terms as to the responsibility and
liability of the carrier for such goods, and as to the rights and immunities of the
carrier in respect of such goods, or his obligation as to seaworthiness, so far as this
stipulation is not contrary to public policy, or the care or diligence of his servants
or agents in regard to the loading, handling, stowage, carriage, custody, care and
discharge of the goods carried by sea, provided that in this case no bill of lading
has been or shall be issued and that the terms agreed shall be embodied in a receipt
which shall be a non-negotiable document and shall be marked as such.

    Any agreement so entered into shall have full legal effect.

        Provided that this Article shall not apply to
ordinary commercial shipments made in the ordinary course of trade, but
only to other shipments where the character or condition of the property to be
carried or the circumstances, terms and conditions under which the carriage is to
be performed are such as reasonably to justify a special agreement.

    ARTICLE VII

        Nothing herein contained shall prevent a carrier or a shipper from entering
into any agreement, stipulation, condition, reservation or exemption as to the
responsibility and liability of the carrier or the ship for the loss or damage to, or in
connection with, the custody and care and handling of goods prior to the loading
on, and subsequent to the discharge from, the ship on which the goods are carried
by sea.

    ARTICLE VIII

        The provisions of these Rules shall not affect the rights and obligations of
the carrier under any statute for the time being in force relating to the limitation of
the liability of owners of sea-going vessels.

    ARTICLE IX

        These Rules shall not affect the provisions of any international Convention
or national law governing liability for nuclear damage.
          Carriage of Goods by Sea

2020 Ed.  Act 1972                                           11

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

          ARTICLE X

        The provisions of these Rules shall apply to every bill of lading relating to
the carriage of goods between ports in 2 different States if:

(a) the bill of lading is issued in a contracting State, or

(b) the carriage is from a port in a contracting State, or

(c) the contract contained in or evidenced by the bill of lading provides
    that these Rules or legislation of any State giving effect to them are to
    govern the contract,

whatever may be the nationality of the ship, the carrier, the shipper, the consignee,
or any other interested person.

                                                             31.12.2021
                         LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                   CARRIAGE OF GOODS BY SEA

                                   ACT 1972

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

               PICTORIAL OVERVIEW OF PREDECESSOR ACTS

               LEGISLATIVE HISTORY DETAILS

                                  PART 1
             CARRIAGE OF GOODS BY SEA ACT
           (CHAPTER 184, 1970 REVISED EDITION)

1. Ordinance 4 of 1927 — Carriage of Goods by Sea Ordinance, 1927

Bill                  : G.N. No. 1630/1926

First Reading         : 11 October 1926

Second Reading        : 1 November 1926

Notice of Amendments  : 7 February 1927

Third Reading         : 21 March 1927

Commencement          : 20 April 1927

2. 1936 Revised Edition — Carriage of Goods by Sea Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 156)

Operation             : 1 September 1936

3. 1955 Revised Edition — Carriage of Goods by Sea Ordinance
                                    (Chapter 173)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

4. 1970 Revised Edition — Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (Chapter 184)

Operation             : 1 July 1971

                                                31.12.2021
               ii

                                          PART 2
                   CARRIAGE OF GOODS BY SEA ACT 1972

                              (2020 REVISED EDITION)

5. Act 30 of 1972 — Carriage of Goods by Sea Act, 1972

Bill           : 34/1972

First Reading  : 24 October 1972

Second and Third Readings : 3 November 1972

Commencement   : 16 January 1978

6. Act 13 of 1982 — Carriage of Goods by Sea (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill           : 2/1982

First Reading  : 3 March 1982

Second and Third Readings : 26 March 1982

Commencement   : 11 June 1982

7. 1985 Revised Edition — Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (Chapter 33)

Operation      : 30 March 1987

8. Act 6 of 1995 — Carriage of Goods by Sea (Amendment) Act 1995

Bill           : 4/1995

First Reading  : 23 January 1995

Second and Third Readings : 1 March 1995

Commencement   : 31 March 1995

9. 1998 Revised Edition — Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (Chapter 33)

Operation      : 30 May 1998
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
