THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
             HOUSE TO HOUSE AND STREET
                   COLLECTIONS ACT 1947

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                               2020 Ed.

         House to House and Street
            Collections Act 1947

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.  Short title
     2.  Interpretation
     3.  House to house and street collections to be licensed
     4.  Licences
     5.  Regulations
     6.  Unauthorised use of badges, etc.
     7.  Collector to give name, etc., to police on demand
     8.  Penalties
     9.  Jurisdiction
   10.   Exemption

An Act to regulate house to house and street collections.
                                                                  [9 May 1947]

Short title
 1. This Act is the House to House and Street Collections Act 1947.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “collection” means an appeal to the public or any class of the
         public, made by means of visits from house to house or of
         soliciting in streets or other public places, or by both such
         means, to give, whether for consideration or not, money or
         other property not being money or property due or about to
         fall due from the donors under or by virtue of any written law,
         contract or other legal obligation;
      “collector”, in relation to a collection, means a person who
         makes such an appeal by either of those means;

                                                           1

                                                                                              31.12.2021
   House to House and Street

2  Collections Act 1947                                2020 Ed.

   “house” includes a place of business;

   “licence” means a licence granted under section 4;

   “proceeds”, in relation to a collection, means all money and all
      other property given, whether for consideration or not, in
      response to the appeal made;

   “promoter”, in relation to a collection, means a person who
      causes others to act, whether for remuneration or otherwise,
      as collectors for the purposes of a collection; and “promote”
      and “promotion” have corresponding meanings.

 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a collection shall be deemed to be
made for a particular purpose where the appeal is made in association
with a representation that the money or other property appealed for, or
part thereof, will be applied for that purpose.

House to house and street collections to be licensed

 3.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, no collection shall be
made unless the requirements of this Act as to a licence for the
promotion of a collection are satisfied.

 (2) If any person promotes a collection, and a collection is made in
any locality pursuant to his promotion, then, unless there is in force,
throughout the period during which the collection is made, a licence
authorising him, or authorising another under whose authority he
acts, to promote that collection, he shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 (3) If any person acts as a collector for the purposes of a collection,
then, unless there is in force, at all times when he so acts, a licence
authorising a promoter under whose authority he acts, or authorising
the collector himself, to promote that collection, he shall be guilty of
an offence.
          House to House and Street

2020 Ed.  Collections Act 1947       3

Licences

 4.—(1) Where any person who desires to promote a collection in
Singapore makes to the Commissioner of Police an application in the
prescribed manner specifying the purpose of the collection, and
furnishes him with the prescribed information, the Commissioner of
Police shall, subject to the following provisions of this section and to
such conditions as he thinks fit to impose, grant to the person a
licence authorising the person to promote a collection for that
purpose.

 (2) A licence granted under this section shall be for such period as
the Commissioner of Police may in his discretion determine, and the
period in respect of which the licence is granted shall be specified in
the licence.

 (3) Every application for a licence shall specify an address within
Singapore for service on the applicant of any notice or other
communication required to be served on him.

 (4) The Commissioner of Police may, in his discretion, refuse to
grant a licence or may at any time revoke a licence granted by him, if
it appears to him —

(a) that the total amount likely to be applied for the purpose of
     the collection from the proceeds of the collection
     (including any amount already so applied) is inadequate
     in proportion to the value of the proceeds likely to be
     received (including any proceeds already received);

(b) that remuneration which is excessive in relation to the total
     amount referred to in paragraph (a) is likely to be, or has
     been, retained or received out of the proceeds of the
     collection by any person;

          (c) that the grant of a licence would be likely to facilitate the
              commission of an offence under any written law, or that
              any such offence has been committed in connection with
              the collection, and in particular, that any force, threat or
              compulsion is likely to be, or has been, used in order to
              obtain any contribution for the purpose of the collection;

                                     31.12.2021
   House to House and Street

4  Collections Act 1947       2020 Ed.

   (d) that the applicant or the holder of the licence is not a fit and
        proper person to hold a licence by reason of the fact that he
        has been convicted, whether in Singapore or elsewhere, of
        any offence conviction for which necessarily involved or
        implied a finding that he had acted fraudulently or
        dishonestly, or of any offence of a kind the commission
        of which would be likely to be facilitated by the grant of a
        licence;

   (e) that the applicant or the holder of the licence, in promoting
       a collection in respect of which a licence has been granted
       to him, has failed to exercise due diligence to ensure that
       persons authorised by him to act as collectors for the
       purposes of the collection were fit and proper persons to
       secure compliance on the part of persons so authorised
       with the provisions of this Act or any of its regulations, or
       to prevent prescribed badges or prescribed certificates of
       authority being obtained by persons not so authorised;

   (f) that the collection is in aid of, or that the promoter or any of
       the collectors are members of, an unlawful society, or that
       the purpose of the collection is illegal, fictitious or
       objectionable on grounds of public policy, or that the
       refusal or revocation of a licence is otherwise desirable in
       the public interest; or

   (g) that the applicant or the holder of the licence has furnished
        false information to the Commissioner of Police or has
        refused or neglected to furnish to the Commissioner of
        Police such information as he may have reasonably
        required for the purpose of informing himself as to any
        of the matters specified in paragraphs (a) to (f).
          House to House and Street

2020 Ed.  Collections Act 1947       5

 (5) Subject to subsection (6), when the Commissioner of Police
refuses to grant a licence or revokes a licence which has been granted,
the Commissioner of Police shall forthwith give written notice to the
applicant or the holder of the licence stating upon which one or more
of the grounds set out in subsection (4) the licence has been refused or
revoked and informing him of the right of appeal given by this
section, and the applicant or the holder of the licence may then appeal
to the Minister against the refusal or revocation of the licence, as the
case may be, and the decision of the Minister shall be final.

 (6) In any case in which the refusal or revocation by the
Commissioner of Police under subsection (5) was based on any
ground mentioned in subsection (4)(f), the Commissioner of Police
may decline to state his reasons for the refusal or revocation or to
disclose the nature or source of the information on which he acted.

 (7) The time within which any such appeal may be brought shall be
14 days from the date on which notice is given under subsection (5).

 (8) If the Minister decides that the appeal shall be allowed, the
Commissioner of Police shall forthwith grant a licence or cancel the
revocation, as the case may be, in accordance with the decision of the
Minister.

Regulations

 5.—(1) The Minister may make regulations for prescribing
anything which by this Act is required to be prescribed and for
regulating the manner in which licensed collections may be carried
out and the conduct of promoters and collectors in relation to such
collections, and generally to give effect to the provisions of this Act.

 (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by
subsection (1), regulations made under this Act may provide for all or
any of the following matters:

                                     31.12.2021
   House to House and Street

6  Collections Act 1947       2020 Ed.

   (a) for requiring and regulating the use by collectors of
        prescribed badges and prescribed certificates of authority,
        and the issue, custody, production, display and return of
        such badges and certificates of authority, and, in particular,
        for requiring collectors on demand by a police officer or by
        any occupant of a house visited or person solicited to
        produce their certificates of authority;

   (b) for the authentication of prescribed certificates of authority
        and for the clear indication in prescribed badges of the
        purpose of the collection;

   (c) for the requiring of the issue of receipts in respect of
       moneys collected;

   (d) for requiring promoters of collections to render and publish
        true accounts of all moneys collected and paid;

   (e) for prohibiting persons below a prescribed age from acting,
       and others from causing or allowing them to act, as
       collectors;

   (f) for preventing annoyance to the occupants of houses
       visited or to any other members of the public;

   (g) for requiring the prescribed information with respect to the
        purpose, expenses, proceeds and application of the
        proceeds of collections to be furnished by the licensee to
        the Commissioner of Police and for requiring such
        information to be vouched and authenticated in such
        manner as may be prescribed;

   (h) for prescribing penalties for contravention of, or failure to
        comply with, any such regulations.

 (3) Any person who contravenes any regulations made under this
Act shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Regulations made under this Act shall be presented to
Parliament and when approved, by a resolution of Parliament, shall
have the same force as if they had been enacted as part of this Act.
          House to House and Street

2020 Ed.  Collections Act 1947       7

Unauthorised use of badges, etc.

 6.—(1) Any person who, in connection with any appeal to the
public or any class of the public for subscriptions or contributions of
money or other property —

(a) displays or uses a prescribed badge or a prescribed
     certificate of authority other than a badge or certificate
     which he is authorised, under any regulations made under
     this Act, so to display or use; or

(b) displays or uses any badge, device, emblem, certificate or
     other document intended, calculated or likely to cause any
     person to believe that the person displaying or using the
     same is an authorised collector for the purposes of a
     licensed collection when such is not the case,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person who, in furnishing any information for the purposes
of this Act or any of its regulations, knowingly or recklessly makes
any statement which is false in any material particular shall be guilty
of an offence.

Collector to give name, etc., to police on demand

 7. Any police officer may require any person whom he believes to
be acting as a collector for the purposes of a collection to declare to
him immediately the person’s name and address and, if any person
fails to comply with a requirement duly made to the person under this
section, that person shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $100.

Penalties

 8.—(1) Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
special penalty is provided by this Act or by any of its regulations
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

                                     31.12.2021
   House to House and Street

8  Collections Act 1947       2020 Ed.

 (2) Where any offence under this Act is committed by any
corporation, society, association or body of persons, every person
charged with, or concerned or acting in, the control or management of
the affairs or activities of the corporation, society, association or body
of persons shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be punished accordingly unless it is proved by any such
person that, through no neglect or omission on his part, he was not
aware that the offence was being or was about to be committed or that
he took all reasonable steps to prevent its commission.

Jurisdiction

 9.—(1) Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained
in any written law for the time being in force, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court shall have jurisdiction to try any offence under
this Act and to award any punishment specified or prescribed for that
offence.

 (2) At the conclusion of any trial in respect of an alleged offence
under this Act, when the trial results in a conviction, the court may
make an order for the return to its owner, if known, or for the
forfeiture or confiscation of any money or other property produced
before the court or in the custody of the court, the police or any public
servant which, in the opinion of the court, was obtained by or in
consequence of the commission of an offence under this Act.

Exemption

 10. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, exempt any
person from the provisions of this Act subject to such conditions, if
any, as the Minister may impose.
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           HOUSE TO HOUSE AND STREET
                COLLECTIONS ACT 1947

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Ordinance 19 of 1947 — House to House and Street Collections
                                    Ordinance, 1947

Bill                  : G.N. No. S 102/1947

First Reading         : 17 April 1947

Second and Third Readings : 24 April 1947

Commencement          : 9 May 1947

2. 1955 Revised Edition — House to House and Street Collections
                                    Ordinance (Chapter 220)

Operation             : 1 July 1956

3. Ordinance 31 of 1958 — Legislative Assembly (Presentation of
                                    Subsidiary Legislation) Ordinance, 1958

   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 158/1958

First Reading         : 16 July 1958

Second Reading        : 13 August 1958

Notice of Amendments  : 10 September 1958

Third Reading         : 10 September 1958

Commencement          : 25 September 1958 (section 2 read
                            with the Schedule)

4. Ordinance 71 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers Ordinance, 1959
   (Amendments made by section 4 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 30/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second and Third Readings : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 4 read
                            with the First Schedule)

                                              31.12.2021
                      ii

5. Ordinance 72 of 1959 — Transfer of Powers (No. 2) Ordinance, 1959
   (Amendments made by section 2 read with the First Schedule to the above
   Ordinance)

Bill                  : 31/1959

First Reading         : 22 September 1959

Second Reading        : 11 November 1959

Notice of Amendments  : 11 November 1959

Third Reading         : 11 November 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959 (section 2 read
                            with the First Schedule)

6. G.N. No. S (N.S.) 177/1959 — Singapore Constitution (Modification of
                                           Laws) (No. 3) Order, 1959

Commencement          : 20 November 1959

7. 1970 Revised Edition — House to House and Street Collections Act
                                    (Chapter 249)

Operation             : 31 July 1971

8. 1985 Revised Edition — House to House and Street Collections Act
                                    (Chapter 128)

Operation             : 30 March 1987

9. 2014 Revised Edition — House to House and Street Collections Act
                                    (Chapter 128)

Operation             : 30 April 2014
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
