THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
           LAYOUT-DESIGNS OF INTEGRATED
                       CIRCUITS ACT 1999

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                                  2020 Ed.

         Layout-Designs of Integrated
                Circuits Act 1999

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  No protection for ideas
     2.  Act binds the Government
     3.
     4.

                                       PART 2

                  PROTECTION OF LAYOUT-DESIGNS

5. Protected layout-designs
6. Ownership of layout-design
7. Duration of protection

                                        PART 3

      LAYOUT-DESIGN RIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENT ACTION

 8. Rights of qualified owner
 9. Infringement
10. Non-infringing acts
11. Innocent infringement
12. Remedies for infringement
13. Order for delivery up
14. Order for disposal
15. Presumption of protection and ownership
16. Affidavit evidence
17. Groundless threat of infringement proceedings

                                                  1

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        2

          PART 4

          DEALINGS WITH A LAYOUT-DESIGN RIGHT

Section   Assignments and licences of layout-design
          Prospective ownership of layout-design
   18.    Exclusive licensee
   19.    Exercise of concurrent rights
   20.
   21.

                                        PART 5

                          COMPULSORY LICENSING

22. Interpretation of this Part
23. Use by Government for public non-commercial purpose
24. Scope and nature of right under section 23
25. Duty to inform qualified owner
26. Qualified owner entitled to remuneration
27. Licence to remedy anti-competitive practice
28. Scope and nature of licence
29. Court may determine licence

                                        PART 6
                                 MISCELLANEOUS

30. Rules
31. Designation of qualifying countries

An Act to provide for the protection of layout‑designs of integrated
  circuits.

                                                           [15 February 1999]

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Layout-Designs of Integrated Circuits Act 1999.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                Layout-Designs of Integrated

3               Circuits Act 1999                           2020 Ed.

Interpretation

   2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

   “commercially exploit” includes —

   (a) to sell, let for hire or otherwise distribute by way of
        trade;

   (b) to offer or expose for sale or hire or other distribution
        by way of trade; or

   (c) to import for the purpose of sale, letting for hire or
       other distribution by way of trade,

   and “commercially exploited”, “commercially exploiting”
   and “commercial exploitation” have corresponding
   meanings;

   “Court” means the General Division of the High Court;

   “creator”, in the case of a computer aided design of a
      layout‑design, means the person who made the
      arrangements for the creation of the layout‑design;

   “exclusive licence” means a licence in writing signed by or on
      behalf of a qualified owner authorising the licensee, to the
      exclusion of all other persons, including the person granting
      the licence, to exercise a right that would otherwise be
      exercisable exclusively by the qualified owner;

   “integrated circuit” means a product, in its final form or an
      intermediate form, in which the elements, at least one of
      which is an active element, and some or all of the
      interconnections are integrally formed in and on, or in or
      on, a piece of material and which is intended to perform an
      electronic function;

   “layout-design” means the 3-dimensional disposition, however
      expressed, of the elements of an integrated circuit (at least
      one of which is an active element), and of some or all of the
      interconnections of an integrated circuit, or such a
      3‑dimensional disposition prepared for an integrated circuit
      intended for manufacture;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        4

“protected layout‑design” means a layout-design that is
   protected under section 5;

“qualified owner” means —

          (a) a qualified person who, under section 6(1), is the
               owner of a layout‑design; or

          (b) a person who, under section 6(1), is the owner of a
               layout‑design which was not commercially exploited
               anywhere else in the world before it was
               commercially exploited in Singapore or in a
               qualifying country,

          and includes a person, whether or not a qualified person, who
          is a successor in title to a qualified owner of the
          layout‑design;

“qualified person” means —

          (a) a natural person —

          (i) who is a national of, or is domiciled or
              ordinarily resident in Singapore or in a
              qualifying country; or

          (ii) who has a real and effective industrial or
               commercial establishment for the creation of
               layout‑designs or for the production of
               integrated circuits in Singapore or in a
               qualifying country; or

          (b) a person other than a natural person —

          (i) the place of incorporation or place of formation
              of which is in Singapore or in a qualifying
              country; or

          (ii) which has a real and effective industrial or
               commercial establishment for the creation of
               layout‑designs or for the production of
               integrated circuits in Singapore or in a
               qualifying country,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Layout-Designs of Integrated

5  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

   and includes the Government and the government of a
   qualifying country;

   “qualifying country” means —

   (a) a country or territory, other than Singapore, which is
        a member of the World Trade Organisation; or

              (b) a country or territory designated by the Minister
                   under section 31.

                                                                                                           [40/2019]

 (2) A layout-design is taken to have been commercially exploited if
the layout‑design, a copy of the layout‑design or an integrated circuit
in which the layout‑design is incorporated (whether or not the
integrated circuit is contained in another article) is commercially
exploited.

 (3) A reference to doing an act in relation to a layout‑design
includes a reference to doing that act in relation to a substantial part of
the layout‑design.

 (4) A reference to a copy of a layout‑design includes a reference to
a copy of a substantial part of the layout‑design.

No protection for ideas

 3. This Act does not apply in relation to any idea, procedure,
process, system, method of operation, concept, principle or
discovery, regardless of the form in which it is described,
explained, illustrated or embodied in a layout‑design.

Act binds the Government
 4. This Act binds the Government.

                                    PART 2
                PROTECTION OF LAYOUT-DESIGNS
Protected layout-designs
 5.—(1) This Act protects a layout-design that is owned by a
qualified owner and —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        6

(a) is original in the sense that it is the result of its creator’s
     own intellectual effort and is not commonplace among
     creators of layout‑designs and manufacturers of integrated
     circuits at the time of its creation; or

(b) in the case of a layout-design that consists of a combination
     of elements and interconnections that are commonplace,
     the combination, taken as a whole, is original in the sense
     that it is the result of its creator’s own intellectual effort
     and is not commonplace among creators of layout‑designs
     and manufacturers of integrated circuits at the time of its
     creation.

 (2) This Act protects all independently created layout-designs
referred to in subsection (1), even if they are identical and, subject to
section 7, regardless of when they are, on or after 15 February 1999,
created.

 (3) This Act does not protect a layout‑design that is created before
15 February 1999.

 (4) A layout-design is deemed not to have been created until it has
been recorded in documentary form or incorporated into an integrated
circuit, whichever is earlier.

Ownership of layout-design

 6.—(1) Subject to any agreement to the contrary, the owner of a
layout‑design is determined as follows:

       (a) where the layout-design is not created pursuant to a
            commission or in the course of employment — the creator
            of a layout‑design is the owner;

       (b) where the layout-design is created pursuant to a
            commission — the person who commissioned the
            layout‑design is the owner; and

       (c) where the layout-design is not created pursuant to a
            commission but is created by an employee in the course of
            his or her employment — the employer is the owner.

 (2) A qualified person can be a qualified owner even if the qualified
person shares ownership with a person who is not a qualified person.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Layout-Designs of Integrated

7  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) Where a layout-design is owned by more than one person,
references in the Act to the owner are to all the owners and references
in the Act to the qualified owner are to all the qualified owners so that
in particular, any requirement of the consent of a qualified owner
requires the consent of all the qualified owners.

Duration of protection

 7. A layout-design ceases to be a protected layout‑design —

       (a) if it is first commercially exploited within 5 calendar years
            after the calendar year in which it was created, at the end of
            the 10th calendar year after the calendar year in which it
            was first commercially exploited;

       (b) in any other case, at the end of the period of 15 calendar
            years after the calendar year in which it was created.

                                    PART 3

  LAYOUT-DESIGN RIGHTS AND INFRINGEMENT ACTION

Rights of qualified owner

 8. A qualified owner has the following rights:

       (a) to copy, and to authorise the copying of, all or part of the
            qualified owner’s protected layout‑design, whether by
            incorporation into an integrated circuit or otherwise;

       (b) to commercially exploit, and to authorise the commercial
            exploitation of, the qualified owner’s protected
            layout‑design.

Infringement

 9. Subject to the provisions of this Act, it is an infringement of a
qualified owner’s right in a protected layout‑design for any person to
do any of the acts referred to in section 8 without the consent of the
qualified owner.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.             Circuits Act 1999                             8

Non-infringing acts

 10. It is not an infringement of a qualified owner’s right in a
protected layout‑design —

(a) if the copying is of any part of a protected layout‑design
     that does not comply with the requirement of originality
     referred to in section 5(1);

(b) if the copying is done for a private purpose and not for the
     purpose of commercial exploitation;

          (c) if the copying is done for the sole purpose of evaluation,
              analysis, research or teaching;

(d) to use the results of such evaluation, analysis or research to
     create a different layout‑design that complies with the
     requirement of originality referred to in section 5(1);

          (e) to do any of the acts referred to in section 8 in respect of the
              layout‑design referred to in paragraph (d);

          (f) for a qualified owner of another protected layout‑design —

          (i) that is identical to the firstmentioned protected
              layout‑design; and

          (ii) that is independently created,

          (f) to do any of the acts referred to in section 8 in respect of
              that other layout‑design; or

(g) to commercially exploit a copy of the protected
     layout‑design, an integrated circuit in which the
     layout‑design is incorporated or an article that contains
     an integrated circuit in which the layout‑design is
     incorporated after the copy, integrated circuit or article
     has been commercially exploited, whether in Singapore or
     elsewhere, by, or with the consent of, the qualified owner.

Innocent infringement

 11.—(1) The rights of a qualified owner in a protected
layout‑design are not infringed by a person who commercially
exploits, or authorises the commercial exploitation of —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
   Layout-Designs of Integrated

9                         Circuits Act 1999                  2020 Ed.

   (a) a copy of the protected layout-design;

   (b) an unauthorised integrated circuit, being an integrated
        circuit in which the protected layout‑design is
        incorporated; or

   (c) an article that contains such an integrated circuit,

if, at the time when the person acquired the copy, integrated circuit or
article, the person did not know, and could not be reasonably expected
to have known, that the copy was unauthorised, the integrated circuit
was unauthorised or that the article contained an unauthorised
integrated circuit, as the case may be.

 (2) Where a person referred to in subsection (1) becomes aware or
could reasonably be expected to become aware that the copy was
unauthorised, the integrated circuit was unauthorised or that the
article contains an unauthorised integrated circuit (as the case may
be) that subsection continues to apply to any subsequent commercial
exploitation of the copy, integrated circuit or article if and only if the
person pays to the qualified owner such remuneration —

   (a) as is agreed;

   (b) as is determined by a method agreed between the person
        and the qualified owner; or

   (c) in default of agreement, as is determined by the Court on
       an application made by either of them.

   (3) In this section —

   (a) a copy of a protected layout-design is unauthorised if it is
        made without the consent of the qualified owner of the
        layout‑design; and

   (b) an integrated circuit which incorporates a protected
        layout‑design is unauthorised if such incorporation is
        done without the consent of the qualified owner of the
        layout‑design.

Remedies for infringement

 12.—(1) A qualified owner may take whatever proceedings and
seek whatever remedy by way of damages, injunctions, accounts or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        10

otherwise with respect to an infringement of the qualified owner’s
rights in a protected layout‑design as are available with respect to any
other property rights.

 (2) In any proceedings in which damages may be awarded, the
Court may, having regard to all of the circumstances of the case
including the flagrancy of the infringement and any benefit accruing
to the defendant by reason of the infringement, award additional
damages.

Order for delivery up

 13.—(1) Where a person has in the person’s possession, custody or
control —

       (a) for commercial exploitation purposes an integrated circuit
            in which a protected layout‑design is incorporated; or

       (b) any article which the person knows or has reason to believe
            has been or is to be predominantly used to make integrated
            circuits in which a protected layout‑design is incorporated,

a qualified owner of the protected layout‑design may apply to the
Court for an order that the integrated circuit or article referred to in
paragraph (b) be delivered to the qualified owner or to another person
that the Court specifies.

 (2) The Court may not make an order for delivery up unless it also
makes, or it appears to the Court that there are grounds for making, an
order under section 14.

 (3) A person to whom an integrated circuit or an article referred to
in subsection (1)(b) is delivered up must, if an order under section 14
is not made at the time of the order under this section, retain the
integrated circuit or article pending the making of an order, or a
decision not to make an order, under section 14.

Order for disposal

 14.—(1) An application may be made to the Court for —

       (a) an order that the integrated circuit or article delivered up
            under section 13 be forfeited to the qualified owner,
            destroyed or disposed of as the Court specifies; or

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Layout-Designs of Integrated

11  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

    (b) a decision that no order be made under paragraph (a).

 (2) In deciding what order or decision to make under subsection (1),
the Court is to have regard to whether other remedies available to the
claimant would be adequate to compensate the claimant and protect
the interests of the claimant.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (3) The Court is to issue directions as to the service of notice on
persons having an interest in the integrated circuit or article delivered
up.

 (4) Any person having an interest in the integrated circuit or article
delivered up is entitled —

    (a) to appear in proceedings for an order under this section,
         whether or not the person is served with notice; and

    (b) to appeal against any order made, whether or not that
         person appears in the proceedings.

 (5) An order made under this section does not take effect until the
end of the period within which notice of an appeal may be given or, if
before the end of that period notice of appeal is duly given, until the
final determination or abandonment of the proceedings on the appeal.

 (6) Where there is more than one person interested in the integrated
circuit or article delivered up, the Court may direct that the integrated
circuit or article be sold, or otherwise dealt with, and the proceeds
divided, and may make any other order as it thinks fit.

 (7) If the Court decides that no order should be made under this
section, the person in whose possession, custody or control the
integrated circuit or article was before being delivered up is entitled to
its return.

Presumption of protection and ownership

 15. In any proceedings to enforce a qualified owner’s rights under
this Part, it is presumed, unless a defendant puts the matter in issue,
that in respect of the layout‑design that is the subject matter of the
proceedings —

       (a) the claimant is a qualified owner of the layout‑design; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        12

(b) the layout-design is a protected layout‑design.

Affidavit evidence

 16.—(1) In any proceedings to enforce a qualified owner’s rights
under this Part, evidence may be submitted by affidavit asserting facts
relevant to show that —

       (a) the claimant is a qualified owner of the layout‑design; and

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) the layout-design is a protected layout‑design.

 (2) Where the Court considers, on the application of a party, that the
deponent to an affidavit should be available to be cross‑examined
with respect to matters asserted in the affidavit, it is to exclude the
admission of the affidavit without the appearance of the deponent.

Groundless threat of infringement proceedings

 17.—(1) Where a person, by means of circulars, advertisements or
otherwise, threatens another person with proceedings in respect of an
infringement of a right under this Part, then, whether or not the person
making the threat is a qualified owner, the Court may, on the
application of a person aggrieved, do one or more of the following:

       (a) declare that the threat is unjustified;

       (b) grant an injunction against the continuance of the threat;

       (c) award compensation for damage sustained.

 (2) The Court may not make any order under subsection (1) if the
defendant satisfies the Court that the acts in respect of which the
proceeding was threatened constituted, or would constitute, an
infringement of a qualified owner’s right under this Part.

 (3) The mere notification of the existence of a right under this Part
does not constitute a threat of a proceeding for the purposes of
subsection (1).

 (4) An application may not be brought under this section where the
threat is to bring a proceeding for an infringement that is alleged to
consist of making or importing anything.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Layout-Designs of Integrated

13  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

 (5) Nothing in this section renders an advocate and solicitor liable
to an action under this section in respect of an act done by him or her
in his or her professional capacity on behalf of a client.

                                    PART 4

          DEALINGS WITH A LAYOUT-DESIGN RIGHT

Assignments and licences of layout-design

 18.—(1) A right in a layout-design is movable property and is
transmissible by any means by which such property may be lawfully
transmitted including assignment, licence, testamentary instrument
and operation of law.

 (2) An assignment or transmission may be total or partial.

 (3) An assignment is ineffective unless it is in writing and signed by
or on behalf of the assignor.

 (4) A licence granted in respect of a layout‑design right by a
qualified owner binds each successor in title to the qualified owner’s
interest in the right, except a purchaser in good faith for value without
notice (actual or constructive) of the licence and a person who derives
title from the purchaser.

Prospective ownership of layout-design

 19.—(1) Where, by an agreement made in relation to a future right
in a layout‑design that is signed by or on behalf of the person who
would be the owner of the right on its coming into existence, the
person purports to assign the future right in the layout‑design, wholly
or partially, to an assignee, the right, on coming into existence, vests
in the assignee or the assignee’s successor in title.

 (2) Where, at the time when a layout-design right comes into
existence, the person who would be entitled to the right is dead, the
right devolves as if, immediately before the person’s death, the person
had been the owner of the right.

 (3) A licence granted in respect of a future layout‑design right by a
prospective qualified owner binds each successor in title to his or her
interest (or prospective interest) in the right, except a purchaser in

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        14

good faith for value without notice (actual or constructive) of the
licence and a person who derives title from the purchaser.

Exclusive licensee

 20.—(1) An exclusive licensee has the same rights against a
successor in title to the qualified owner as the exclusive licensee has
against the grantor of the licence.

 (2) An exclusive licensee has, except against the qualified owner,
the same rights and remedies in respect of matters occurring after the
grant of the exclusive licence as if the licence had been an
assignment.

 (3) An exclusive licensee’s rights and remedies are concurrent with
those of the qualified owner.

 (4) In any proceedings brought by an exclusive licensee, a
defendant may avail himself, herself or itself of any defence that
would have been available to the defendant if the proceedings had
been brought by the qualified owner.

Exercise of concurrent rights

 21.—(1) Where the qualified owner of a right in a layout‑design or
an exclusive licensee brings proceedings for any infringement of a
layout‑design in respect of which the owner and the exclusive
licensee have concurrent rights of action, the owner or the exclusive
licensee (as the case may be) need not —

(a) join the other as a claimant; or

                                                                    [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

(b) add the other as a defendant,

unless the Court otherwise orders.

                                                                   [21/2004]

 (2) A qualified owner must, by post or otherwise, notify any
exclusive licensee who has concurrent rights of action in respect of an
infringement of a layout‑design before applying for an order for
delivery up under section 13.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Layout-Designs of Integrated

15  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

 (3) The Court may, on the application of the exclusive licensee,
make a delivery up order that the Court considers just having regard
to the terms of the licence.

 (4) A qualified owner or exclusive licensee who is added as a
defendant under subsection (1) is not liable for costs in the
proceedings unless he or she takes part in the proceedings.

 (5) Where any proceedings for infringement of a qualified owner’s
right in a layout‑design is brought and the proceedings relate wholly
or partly to an infringement in respect of which a qualified owner and
an exclusive licensee have concurrent rights of action —

    (a) the Court, in assessing damages, is to take into account the
         terms of the licence and any pecuniary remedy previously
         awarded or available to either of them in respect of the
         infringement;

    (b) if an account of profits is directed, the Court is to apportion
         the profits between them as the Court considers just,
         subject to any agreement between them; and

    (c) if an award of damages has been made or an account of
        profits has been directed in favour of either of them, the
        Court may not direct that an account of profits be made in
        favour of the other in respect of the infringement.

 (6) Subsection (5) applies whether or not the qualified owner and
the exclusive licensee are both parties to the proceedings.

                                    PART 5

                      COMPULSORY LICENSING

Interpretation of this Part

 22. Where an exclusive licence is in force in relation to any
layout‑design rights, the provisions of this Part apply as if references
to the qualified owner of the layout‑design rights were references to
the exclusive licensee.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        16

Use by Government for public non-commercial purpose

 23.—(1) An act done by the Government, or by a person authorised
in writing by the Government, in relation to a protected layout‑design
is not an infringement of the rights of the qualified owner in the
layout‑design if the act is done for a public non‑commercial purpose.

 (2) An authorisation referred to in subsection (1) may be given
before or after the acts in respect of which it is given have been done.

 (3) Without limiting the generality of the expression “public
non‑commercial purpose”, an act is done for a public
non‑commercial purpose if it is done —

(a) for the defence or national security of Singapore; or

(b) to assist in the exercise of powers and the implementation
     of civil defence measures during a state of emergency or
     state of civil defence emergency under the Civil Defence
     Act 1986.

Scope and nature of right under section 23

 24.—(1) The right to do an act in relation to a protected
layout‑design under section 23 —

       (a) is both non-exclusive and non-assignable;

       (b) is limited to a public non‑commercial purpose;

       (c) is subject to the terms of any authorisation under that
            section;

       (d) does not permit the sale of the layout‑design, a copy of the
            layout‑design, or an integrated circuit in which the
            layout‑design is incorporated (whether or not the
            integrated circuit is contained in another article) to the
            public; and

       (e) is limited to the doing of the act predominantly in
            Singapore.

 (2) An act done under section 23 in relation to a protected
layout‑design is not to be taken into account in calculating the
duration of protection of the layout‑design under section 7.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Layout-Designs of Integrated

17  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

Duty to inform qualified owner

 25.—(1) Where an act has been done under section 23 in relation to
a protected layout‑design, the Government must —

    (a) if the act had been done in situations of national emergency
         or other circumstances of extreme urgency, as soon as
         reasonably practicable inform the qualified owner that the
         act has been done; or

    (b) in any other case, inform the qualified owner promptly that
         the act had been done.

 (2) The Government must give to the qualified owner any
information about the act that the qualified owner from time to
time requires.

 (3) Nothing in subsection (1) or (2) requires the Government to
inform the qualified owner or disclose information to the qualified
owner if doing so would or might reasonably be expected to prejudice
the defence or security of Singapore.

Qualified owner entitled to remuneration

 26. Where an act is done under section 23 in relation to a protected
layout‑design, the Government must pay to the qualified owner of the
protected layout‑design the remuneration —

       (a) that is agreed;

       (b) that is determined by a method agreed between the
            Government and the qualified owner; or

       (c) in default of agreement, that is determined by the Court on
            the application of either of them.

Licence to remedy anti-competitive practice

 27.—(1) A person who claims that he or she requires a licence to do
any act referred to in section 8 in relation to a protected layout‑design
may apply to the Court for the grant of a licence on the ground that the
grant of the licence is necessary to remedy an anti‑competitive
practice.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
          Layout-Designs of Integrated

2020 Ed.  Circuits Act 1999                                        18

 (2) If the Court is satisfied that the ground referred to in
subsection (1) is established, the Court may make an order for the
grant of a licence in accordance with the application upon any terms
that the Court thinks fit.

 (3) The Court is to specify in the order the remuneration to be paid
to the qualified owner for the licence that the Court considers
reasonable.

Scope and nature of licence

 28.—(1) A licence granted under section 27 is —

       (a) both non-exclusive and non-assignable;

       (b) subject to the payment to the qualified owner of the
            remuneration specified in the Court order under
            section 27(3).

 (2) An act done pursuant to a licence granted under section 27 in
relation to a protected layout‑design is not to be taken into account in
calculating the duration of protection of the layout‑design under
section 7.

Court may determine licence

 29. Any licence granted under section 27 may, on the application of
any interested party, be terminated by the Court where the Court is
satisfied that the ground on which the licence was granted ceased to
exist.

                                    PART 6
                             MISCELLANEOUS
Rules
 30. The Minister may make rules for the purpose of carrying into
effect the provisions of this Act.

Designation of qualifying countries
 31.—(1) The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette,

designate a country or territory as a qualifying country if the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
    Layout-Designs of Integrated

19  Circuits Act 1999                                        2020 Ed.

Minister considers that provisions have been or will be made under
the laws of that country or territory that will give to a qualified owner
adequate protection in that country or territory in respect of a
protected layout‑design in which the qualified owner has rights.

 (2) In subsection (1), “qualified owner” means a person who is a
qualified owner by virtue of a relationship to Singapore under the
definition of “qualified person” in section 2.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

           LAYOUT-DESIGNS OF INTEGRATED
                      CIRCUITS ACT 1999

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 3 of 1999 — Layout-Designs of Integrated Circuits Act 1999

Bill                  : 49/1998

First Reading         : 23 November 1998

Second and Third Readings : 20 January 1999

Commencement          : 15 February 1999

2. 2000 Revised Edition — Layout-Designs of Integrated Circuits Act
                                    (Chapter 159A)

Operation             : 30 December 2000

3. Act 21 of 2004 — Intellectual Property (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act
                          2004

   (Amendments made by section 3 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 20/2004

First Reading         : 19 May 2004

Second Reading        : 15 June 2004

Notice of Amendments  : 15 June 2004

Third Reading         : 15 June 2004

Commencement          : 1 July 2004 (section 3)

4. Act 40 of 2019 — Supreme Court of Judicature (Amendment) Act 2019
   (Amendments made by section 28(1) read with item 85 of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill                  : 32/2019

First Reading         : 7 October 2019

Second Reading        : 5 November 2019

Notice of Amendments  : 5 November 2019

Third Reading         : 5 November 2019

Commencement          : 2 January 2021 (section 28(1) read
                            with item 85 of the Schedule)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
               ii

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Layout-Designs of Integrated
                                    Circuits Act 1999

Operation      : 31 December 2021

6. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
   (Amendments made by section 149 of the above Act)

Bill           : 18/2021

First Reading  : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement   : 1 April 2022

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                 COMPARATIVE TABLE

        LAYOUT-DESIGNS OF INTEGRATED
                   CIRCUITS ACT 1999

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.                    2000 Ed.
                  21—(4) [Deleted by Act 21 of 2004]
—
21—(4)               (5)
                     (6)
   (5)               (7)
   (6)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
