THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                VIGILANTE CORPS ACT 1967

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                   2020 Ed.

         Vigilante Corps Act 1967

Section                ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
     1.
     2.  Short title
     3.  Interpretation
     4.  Raising and maintenance of Vigilante Corps
     5.  Composition of Corps
     6.  Functions of Corps
     7.  Appointment of Commandant
     8.  Affiliation to Police Force
     9.  Corps to consist of units
   10.   Power to disband Corps
   11.   Oath or affirmation
   12.   Certificate
   13.   Resignation and discharge from Corps
   14.   Delivery of Government property on leaving Corps
   15.   Desertion
   16.   Members to obey lawful orders
   17.   Punishment of subordinate officers
   18.   Punishment of officers
   19.   Decision on appeal
   20.   Commencement of sentence of detention
   21.   Sentence of detention
   22.   Provisions as to persons unlawfully at large
   23.   Recovery of compensation
         Approval of proper authority for discharge of member called up
   24.   for national service
   25.   Prosecution for disciplinary offences
         Threatening or insulting police officer or Vigilante Corps
   26.   member of senior or equal rank
         Loss of or damage to arms, equipment, etc., to be made good by
   27.   order of court or by composition
   28.   Power to summon witnesses
   29.   Authorised deductions only to be made from pay
   30.   Deductions from ordinary pay of member of Corps
   31.   Supplemental provisions as to deductions from ordinary pay
         Regulations

         1

                                   31.12.2021
2        Vigilante Corps Act 1967  2020 Ed.

Section  Continuance of existing Vigilante Corps and persons deemed to
   32.   be members of Corps
         The Schedule — Offences

An Act to provide for the establishment and maintenance of the
  Vigilante Corps and for purposes connected therewith.

                                                         [22 September 1967]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Vigilante Corps Act 1967.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Commandant” means the officer appointed by the Minister
         under section 6;

      “commanding officer” means the Deputy Commissioner of
         Police, the Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police and an
         Assistant Commissioner of Police, the Director of the Police
         Academy and any police officer lawfully acting in any of
         these appointments;

      “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Police;
      “Corps” means the Vigilante Corps established under this Act;
      “detention barracks” means any building or part of a building set

         apart by the Commissioner for the purposes of persons
         serving sentences of detention;

      “disciplinary officer” means any officer or any police officer of
         or above the rank of Inspector in the Police Force who is
         appointed by the Commandant to conduct disciplinary
         proceedings;

      “member of the Corps” or “member” means any person of any
         rank in the Corps;

      “national serviceman” means a person who has been directed to
         present himself for enlistment in the Corps under the
2020 Ed.  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  3

   provisions of any written law for the time being in force
   relating to national service or enlistment;

“officer” means any member of the Corps not below the rank of
   assistant unit leader;

“Police Force” means the Singapore Police Force established by
   the Police Force Act 2004;

“subordinate officer” means a member of the Corps below the
   rank of assistant unit leader.

Raising and maintenance of Vigilante Corps

 3. There shall be raised and maintained in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and its regulations a corps to be known as the
Vigilante Corps.

Composition of Corps
 4. The Corps shall consist of —
       (a) national servicemen; and
       (b) volunteers who have been enrolled in the Corps by the
            Commandant.

Functions of Corps

 5. The Corps shall —

       (a) assist the Police Force in the maintenance of law and order,
            the preservation of public peace, the prevention and
            detection of crime and the apprehension of offenders; and

       (b) perform such other functions and duties as may be assigned
            to the Corps by the Minister.

Appointment of Commandant

 6. The Minister may appoint a Commandant of the Corps who shall,
subject to the general direction and control of the Commissioner, be
responsible for the command, administration, discipline, training and
welfare of the Corps.

                                    31.12.2021
4  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  2020 Ed.

Affiliation to Police Force

 7.—(1) The Corps shall be affiliated to the Police Force but
members of the Corps shall not be police officers within the meaning
of the Police Force Act 2004.

 (2) The Commissioner may second any member of the Police Force
for full-time or part-time service in the Corps.

Corps to consist of units

 8. The Corps shall consist of such units and divisions as may from
time to time be approved by the Minister.

Power to disband Corps

 9. The Minister may, whenever it seems to him expedient to do so,
disband or discontinue the service of the Corps or any part of the
Corps.

Oath or affirmation

 10.—(1) Every member of the Corps shall take an oath or
affirmation in such form as the Minister may prescribe before the
Commandant or such person as may be authorised by him.

 (2) Any member of the Corps who refuses to take such oath or
affirmation shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (3) This section shall not apply to members of the Corps who are
national servicemen.

Certificate

 11.—(1) A certificate shall be issued to every member of the Corps
and shall be evidence of his appointment under this Act.

 (2) No certificate shall be issued to any member of the Corps who is
a national serviceman.
2020 Ed.  Vigilante Corps Act 1967    5

Resignation and discharge from Corps

 12.—(1) Any member of the Corps, who is enrolled as a volunteer,
may resign by giving to the Commandant 14 days’ notice in writing
of his intention to do so.

 (2) The Commandant may discharge any member of the Corps
where he is of the opinion that the member is not likely to become or
remain useful in the Corps.

Delivery of Government property on leaving Corps

 13.—(1) Every member of the Corps who, by resignation,
dismissal, discharge or otherwise leaves the Corps, shall before
leaving deliver up in good order (fair wear and tear only excepted)
any arms, ammunition, accoutrement, uniform or other article
supplied to him and any other property belonging to the
Government which may be in his possession.

 (2) Any person neglecting to deliver up any such article or property
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months, and shall, in addition be liable to pay the value of the article
or property not delivered up.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the value of the article or
property shall be ascertained in a summary manner by the same court
by which the person was convicted, where it shall be recoverable as a
fine.

Desertion

 14.—(1) If any member of the Corps unlawfully absents himself
from duty under circumstances which show that he has the intention
of not returning to his duty, he shall be deemed to have deserted and
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months.

 (2) Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person where
there are reasonable grounds to believe that that person is guilty of an
offence under subsection (1).

                                      31.12.2021
6  Vigilante Corps Act 1967    2020 Ed.

Members to obey lawful orders

 15. Every member of the Corps shall obey all lawful orders,
whether given verbally or in writing by his superior officer and shall
obey and conform to any written order issued from time to time by the
Commissioner, a commanding officer or the Commandant.

Punishment of subordinate officers

 16.—(1) Where a subordinate officer is found guilty by a
disciplinary officer of any of the offences specified in
the Schedule, the disciplinary officer may impose any one of the
following punishments:

       (a) detention for a period not exceeding 40 days;

       (b) a fine not exceeding $200;

       (c) stoppage of leave for any period not exceeding 28 days;

       (d) restriction of privileges for any period not exceeding
            14 days;

       (e) extra duty or drill for any period not exceeding 7 days;

        (f) reprimand;

       (g) caution.

 (2) If a disciplinary officer is of the opinion that a subordinate
officer found guilty of any offence under this section should be
reduced in rank, he may refer the charge and the record of the
proceedings to the Commandant who may reduce the rank of the
subordinate officer or impose any one of the punishments which a
disciplinary officer may impose under subsection (1).

 (3) A subordinate officer may appeal against any decision under
this section to a commanding officer within 14 days from the date of
the decision and in every case where an appeal has been lodged, any
punishment imposed shall be suspended pending the determination of
the appeal.

 (4) In addition to any of the punishments under subsection (1), a
disciplinary officer may order a subordinate officer found guilty of
2020 Ed.  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  7

any offence under this Act to pay compensation not exceeding $50 to
any person who suffered damage or loss through the offence.

Punishment of officers

 17.—(1) Where an officer is found guilty of any of the offences
specified in the Schedule by any person authorised by regulations
made under this Act to conduct disciplinary proceedings, a
commanding officer may reduce the rank of the officer or impose
any one of the punishments which a disciplinary officer may impose
under section 16(1).

 (2) An officer may appeal against any decision under this section to
the Commissioner within 14 days from the date of the decision and in
every case where an appeal has been lodged, any punishment
imposed shall be suspended pending the determination of the appeal.

 (3) In addition to any of the punishments under subsection (1), a
commanding officer may order an officer found guilty of any offence
under this Act to pay compensation not exceeding $100 to any person
who suffered damage or loss through the offence.

Decision on appeal

 18. On appeal under section 16 or 17, a commanding officer or the
Commissioner, as the case may be, may —

       (a) dismiss the appeal;

       (b) allow the appeal and quash the decision; or

       (c) impose such other punishment as he thinks fit except that
            the punishment so imposed shall not in any event be
            greater or more severe than that originally imposed.

Commencement of sentence of detention

 19. A term of detention imposed under section 16 or 17 shall take
effect from the date on which it was passed unless the officer passing
the sentence otherwise directs.

                                    31.12.2021
8  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  2020 Ed.

Sentence of detention

 20. A person sentenced to detention under this Act shall, unless
otherwise provided for in any regulations made under the Act, serve
his sentence in detention barracks.

Provisions as to persons unlawfully at large

 21.—(1) Any person who, having been sentenced to detention
under this Act, is at large may (without prejudice to any other power
of arrest) be arrested by any police officer without warrant and taken
to any place in which he may be required to be detained in accordance
with this Act or any of its regulations.

 (2) Where any person sentenced to detention under this Act is at
large at any time during the period for which he is liable to be
detained in pursuance of the sentence, no account shall be taken, in
calculating the period for which he is liable to be so detained, of any
time elapsing after he was at large and before he is taken into custody
or he is received into a detention barrack.

Recovery of compensation

 22. An order for payment of compensation made under section 16
or 17 shall not prejudice any right to any civil remedy for the recovery
of damages beyond the amount of compensation paid under the order.

Approval of proper authority for discharge of member called
up for national service

 23. No member of the Corps who has been called up for national
service in the Corps shall be discharged under section 12 except with
the prior approval of the proper authority appointed under any written
law relating to national service or enlistment.

Prosecution for disciplinary offences

 24.—(1) Any member of the Corps accused of any of the offences
specified in the Schedule may, instead of being dealt with under
section 16 or 17, be prosecuted in any court and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $500 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 months or to both.
2020 Ed.  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  9

 (2) Where a member of the Corps is convicted under subsection (1),
the court may order him to pay to any person who suffered damage or
loss through the offence compensation not exceeding $1,000.

 (3) Nothing in subsection (2) shall prejudice the right of any person
to a civil remedy for the recovery of damages beyond the amount of
compensation ordered.

 (4) No prosecution under this section shall be instituted without the
previous sanction in writing of a commanding officer.

Threatening or insulting police officer or Vigilante Corps
member of senior or equal rank

 25.—(1) Any member of the Corps who threatens or insults any
police officer or member of senior or equal rank when that police
officer or member is on duty, or when such threat or insult relates to or
is consequent on the discharge of duty by the police officer or
member so threatened or insulted, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both.

 (2) Any police officer may arrest without warrant any member of
the Corps who has committed or is accused of having committed an
offence under subsection (1).

Loss of or damage to arms, equipment, etc., to be made good by
order of court or by composition

 26.—(1) Any member of the Corps who pawns, sells, loses by
neglect, makes away with or wilfully or negligently damages any
arms, ammunition, accoutrement, uniform or other article supplied to
him, or any vehicle or property committed to his charge shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding $500 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
3 months, and shall, in addition be liable to pay the value of that
article or property.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the value of that article or
property shall be ascertained in a summary manner by the same court
by which the person was convicted, where it shall be recoverable as a
fine.

                                    31.12.2021
10  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  2020 Ed.

(3) The Commandant may in minor cases compound such offences.

Power to summon witnesses

 27.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the person conducting the
disciplinary proceedings into any offence under section 16 or 17 may
by notice require any person to attend and give evidence before him
and may require that person to produce any documents relating to that
offence.

 (2) No person required to attend under subsection (1) shall be
obliged to disclose any matter or produce any document which would
have been protected from disclosure or production, as the case may
be, on the ground of privilege if the proceedings had been held in any
court.

 (3) Any person required to attend under subsection (1) who without
reasonable excuse fails to do so shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $100 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one month or to both.

Authorised deductions only to be made from pay

 28. The pay of a member of the Corps shall be paid without any
deduction other than the deductions authorised by this Act or any of
its regulations or by any other written law.

Deductions from ordinary pay of member of Corps

 29.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the following deductions may,
or if regulations so provide shall, be made from the ordinary pay due
to a member of the Corps:

       (a) all ordinary pay —

               (i) for every day of absence on desertion or without
                   leave, or for overstaying the period for which leave
                   of absence is granted;
2020 Ed.  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  11

          (ii) for every day of imprisonment, corrective training,
               preventive detention, reformative training or
               detention of any other description, to which he is
               liable in consequence of an order or sentence of a
               court or order of the civil power;

          (iii) for every day of detention imposed under section 16
                or 17; and

          (iv) for every day on which he is in hospital on account of
               sickness certified by the proper medical officer
               attending on him at the hospital to have been
               caused by an offence under this Act committed by
               him;

(b) the sum required to make good such compensation for any
     expenses, loss, damage or destruction occasioned by the
     commission of any offence as may be awarded by a court
     by whom he is convicted of the offence or by a person
     conducting the disciplinary proceedings against him under
     this Act or any of its regulations;

          (c) the sum required to make good such compensation for any
              expenses caused by him, or for any loss of or damage or
              destruction done by him to any arms, equipment, clothing,
              instruments or to any buildings or property, as may be
              awarded by a court or by a person conducting the
              disciplinary proceedings against him under this Act or
              any of its regulations; and

(d) the sum required to pay a fine imposed under section 16 or
     17 or any fine, penalty, damages, compensation or costs
     which a court before which he has been charged with an
     offence has ordered him to pay.

                                    31.12.2021
12  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  2020 Ed.

 (2) The total amount of deduction from the ordinary pay due to a
member of the Corps in respect of the sums required to pay any
compensation, fine or sum awarded or ordered to be paid under
subsection (1) shall not exceed such sums as will leave to him less
than $1 a day; and a member shall not be subjected to any deductions
greater than is sufficient to make good the expenses, loss, damage or
destruction for which the compensation is awarded, or to pay the sum
awarded or ordered.

Supplemental provisions as to deductions from ordinary pay

 30.—(1) Any sum authorised by this Act to be deducted from the
ordinary pay of a member of the Corps may, without prejudice to any
other mode of recovering the same, be deducted from the ordinary
pay or from any sums due to the member, in such manner, and when
deducted or recovered may be appropriated in such manner, as may
from time to time be directed by any regulations made under this Act.

 (2) Any regulations referred to in subsection (1) may from time to
time declare what shall, for the purposes of this Act relating to
deductions from pay, be deemed to constitute a day of absence or a
day of imprisonment or detention, except that —

       (a) no person shall be treated as absent, imprisoned or detained
            for the purposes of this Act unless the absence,
            imprisonment or detention has lasted 6 hours or more, or
            the absence prevented the absentee from fulfilling any
            duty;

       (b) a period of absence, imprisonment or detention which
            commences before and ends after midnight may be
            reckoned as a day;

       (c) the number of days shall be reckoned as from the time
            when the absence, imprisonment or detention commences;
            and

       (d) no period of less than 24 hours shall be reckoned as more
            than one day.
2020 Ed.     Vigilante Corps Act 1967                                13

Regulations

 31.—(1) The Minister may make regulations with respect to the
constitution, general administration, discipline, training and welfare
of the Corps and generally for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

 (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1), such regulations may provide for —

(a) the manner in which, and conditions subject to which,
     persons are to be enrolled in the Corps, and the form of
     declaration to be taken by such persons;

(b) the conditions of physical fitness required of members of
     the Corps;

          (c) the training to be undergone by members of the Corps;

(d) the attendance at courses of instruction and training by
     members of the Corps;

          (e) the seniority of officers and the entry, confirmation,
              appointment and promotion of members of the Corps;

          (f) uniforms and equipment to be used in the Corps;

(g) awards of compensation in respect of death and personal
     injuries;

(h) awards of pensions and gratuities;

          (i) reimbursements or payments to members of the Corps;

          (j) the duties and responsibilities of a member who has been
              called up for service in the Corps under the provisions of
              any written law relating to national service or enlistment;

          (k) discipline and punishments; and

          (l) any other matter necessary or expedient for carrying out
              the purposes of this Act.

                                               31.12.2021
14  Vigilante Corps Act 1967  2020 Ed.

Continuance of existing Vigilante Corps and persons deemed to
be members of Corps

 32.—(1) The Vigilante Corps existing immediately before
22 September 1967 shall, as from and after that date, be deemed to
have been raised and maintained under this Act.

 (2) With effect from 22 September 1967, every person who
immediately before that date was a member of the Vigilante Corps
shall be deemed to be appointed or enrolled, with the same rank or
seniority, under the provisions of this Act, and the provisions of this
Act shall extend to every such person accordingly.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                 Sections 16(1), 17(1) and 24(1)

                                         OFFENCES

 1. Abandons any place or thing which it is his duty to guard or to prevent from
falling into the hands of any unauthorised person.

 2. Behaves in such a manner as to show cowardice or induces any other member
so to behave when that member is on duty.

 3. While on guard duty, sleeps or leaves any place where it is his duty to be.

 4. While on patrol duty, does not carry out his duty diligently.

 5. Fails to use his utmost exertion to carry any lawful order of a superior officer
into execution.

 6. By words or behaviour, wilfully disobeys any lawful order by whatever
means communicated to him.

 7. Fails to comply with any lawful order or neglects to perform or negligently
performs any lawful duty or order.

 8. Strikes or otherwise uses violence to or offers violence to a member superior
in rank.

 9. Uses threatening or insubordinate language, or gestures or behaves with
contempt to a member superior in rank.

 10. Absents without leave or good cause from service or from the place where he
is lawfully required for the time being to be.

 11. Does or fails to do any act, or conducts himself to the prejudice of good order
or discipline in the Corps.

 12. Unlawfully places or holds a member in custody.
2020 Ed.  Vigilante Corps Act 1967                                    15

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

 13. Ill-treats a member of lower rank or less seniority or any member in custody
or subject to his authority.

 14. Knowingly exceeds his authority over a member of lower rank or less
seniority.

15. Falsely claims to be suffering from any sickness.

 16. Injures himself or any other member with intent thereby to render himself or
that other member unfit for service, or causes himself to be injured by any person
with that intent.

 17. Does any act or fails to do anything to produce, prolong or aggravate any
sickness with intent to render or keep himself unfit for duty or service.

18. While on duty, is intoxicated by alcohol.

 19. Has in his possession, smokes or administers to himself or otherwise
consumes any dangerous, prohibited or controlled drug as defined in any written
law relating to the misuse or control of drugs.

 20. Without authority, abandons any arms, vessel or vehicle of the Corps or the
Police Force.

 21. Does an act in relation to any thing or substance that may be dangerous to
life or property, which act causes, or is likely to cause, loss of life or bodily injury
to any member or cause, or is likely to cause, damage to or destruction of any
property.

 22. Wilfully damages or destroys or causes the loss of, or is concerned in the
wilful damage, destruction or loss of, any property belonging to the Government
or to a member.

 23. By wilful neglect causes or allows damage to, or the loss of, any property
belonging to the Government.

 24. By any negligent act or omission, causes or allows damage to, or the loss of,
any property belonging to the Government.

 25. Does any wilful or negligent act or omission which is likely to cause damage
to, or the loss of, any property belonging to the Government.

26. Misapplies or wastefully expends any property of the Government.

 27. Being a full-time member, engages in any trade or employment without the
permission of the Commissioner.

                                                       31.12.2021
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
               VIGILANTE CORPS ACT 1967

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 24 of 1967 — Vigilante Corps Act, 1967

Bill                  : 13/1967

First Reading         : 29 June 1967

Second Reading        : 8 September 1967

Notice of Amendments  : 8 September 1967

Third Reading         : 8 September 1967

Commencement          : 22 September 1967

2. Act 25 of 1970 — Enlistment Act, 1970
   (Amendments made by section 35(2) read with the Schedule to the above Act)

Bill                  : 17/1970

First Reading         : 7 May 1970

Second and Third Readings : 21 May 1970

Commencement          : 1 August 1970 (section 35(2) read
                            with the Schedule)

3. 1970 Revised Edition — Vigilante Corps Act (Chapter 80)

Operation             : 1 April 1971

4. Act 21 of 1974 — Enlistment (Amendment) Act, 1974
   (Amendments made by section 7(1) of the above Act)

Bill                  : 27/1974

First Reading         : 23 October 1974

Second and Third Readings : 6 November 1974

Commencement          : 1 March 1975 (section 7(1))

5. Act 24 of 1982 — Vigilante Corps (Amendment) Act, 1982

Bill                  : 14/1982

First Reading         : 27 July 1982

Second and Third Readings : 31 August 1982

Commencement          : 1 October 1982

                                                            31.12.2021
                                 ii

6. 1985 Revised Edition — Vigilante Corps Act (Chapter 343)

       Operation                 : 30 March 1987

7. 2014 Revised Edition — Vigilante Corps Act (Chapter 343)

       Operation                 : 31 December 2014

                              Abbreviations

C.P.              Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.          Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S        Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.              Legislative Assembly

L.N.              Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                  Legislation)

M. Act            Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.             Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.      Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
            COMPARATIVE TABLE
        VIGILANTE CORPS ACT 1967

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.           2014 Ed.

26—(2)            26—(1A)
   (3)               (2)

                                     31.12.2021
