THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                    ENDANGERED SPECIES

             (IMPORT AND EXPORT) ACT 2006

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                                                   2020 Ed.

      Endangered Species
(Import and Export) Act 2006

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
          Interpretation
     1.   Meaning of transit in Singapore
     2.   Appointment of Director‑General and authorised officers
     2A.
     3.

                                       PART 2

                 CONTROL OF IMPORT, EXPORT, ETC.,
                          OF SCHEDULED SPECIES

4. Restriction on import, export, etc., of scheduled species
5. Control of scheduled species in transit
5A. Penalty for corporate offenders, etc., for offence under section 4

       or 5
6. Defence to offence under section 4 or 5
7. Permit for import, export, etc., of scheduled species
8. Cancellation of permit
8A. Certification that item is or is not scheduled species, etc.

                                        PART 3

             ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND PROCEEDINGS

 9. Power of inspection
10. Power to investigate and require information
11. Power of entry, search and seizure
12. Powers ancillary to inspections and searches
12A. Authorised officer’s assistants
13. Power to require scheduled species to be marked, etc.
14. Power of arrest
15. Seized items liable or not liable to forfeiture

                                                      1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                        2

Section   Forfeiture, etc., of seized items by court in criminal proceedings
   15A.   Forfeiture, etc., of seized items (except conveyance) in other
   15B.   circumstances
          Release of seized conveyance in other circumstances
   15C.   Director-General’s powers after forfeiture
   15D.   Expenses
   15E.   Obstruction
   16.    Penalty for false declarations, etc.
   17.    General penalty
   18.    Abetment of offences
   19.    Offences by corporations
   20.    Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships
   20A.

          PART 4

          MISCELLANEOUS

21.       Advisory Committee
22.       Fees, etc., payable to Board
22A.      Evidence
22B.      Protection of informers
22C.      Protection from personal liability
23.       Board not liable for damage caused to goods or property as result
          of search, etc.
24.       Jurisdiction of court, etc.
25.       Composition of offences
26.       Exemption
27.       Service of documents
28.       Amendment of Schedule
29.       Rules
30.       Saving and transitional provision
          The Schedule — Scheduled species

An Act to give effect to the Convention on International Trade in
  Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora by controlling the
  import, export, re‑export and introduction from the sea of certain
  animals and plants, and parts and derivatives of such animals and
  plants, and for matters connected therewith.

                                                               [1 March 2006]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Endangered Species

3            (Import and Export) Act 2006                   2020 Ed.

             PART 1

             PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
2006.

Interpretation

 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “advertise”, in relation to a scheduled species, means to
         describe, make reference to or allude in any way, by any
         means or in any form, to that scheduled species —

              (a) whether directly or indirectly;

              (b) whether orally, in writing in any language,
                   diagrammatically, pictorially, by the use of symbols
                   or photographs, or in any combination thereof; and

              (c) whether by the common name or the scientific name
                   of that scheduled species or otherwise;

      “animal” means any member of the Animal Kingdom, and
         includes —

              (a) any mammal (other than man), bird, reptile,
                   amphibian, fish, mollusc, arthropod, or other
                   vertebrate or invertebrate, whether alive or dead,
                   and the egg, young or immature form thereof; and

              (b) any readily recognisable part or derivative of an
                   animal;

      “authorised officer” means —

              (a) any police officer;

              (b) any officer of customs within the meaning of the
                   Customs Act 1960; or

              (c) any person appointed as an authorised officer by the
                   Director‑General under section 3(2);

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             4

“Board” means the National Parks Board established by the
   repealed National Parks Act (Cap. 198A, 1991 Revised
   Edition) as in force before 1 July 1996 and continued by
   section 3 of the National Parks Board Act 1996;

“CITES” means the Convention on International Trade in
   Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora signed in
   Washington, D. C., on 3 March 1973, and any amendment to,
   or substitution of, the Convention that is binding on
   Singapore;

“conveyance” includes any vessel, aircraft, vehicle or mode of
   transport;

“corporation” includes a limited liability partnership within the
   meaning of section 2(1) of the Limited Liability Partnerships
   Act 2005;

                                                                       [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

“Director‑General” means the Director‑General, Wildlife Trade
   Control appointed under section 3(1);

“export” means to take or cause to be taken out of Singapore by
   land, sea or air any scheduled species other than any
   scheduled species in transit in Singapore, but does not
   include re‑export;

“import” means to bring or cause to be brought into Singapore
   by land, sea or air any scheduled species other than any
   scheduled species in transit in Singapore;

“information” includes data, text, images, sound, codes,
   computer programmes, software and databases;

“introduction from the sea” means transportation into Singapore
   of any scheduled species which was taken in the marine
   environment not under the jurisdiction of any State;

“owner” includes any person for the time being in charge of any
   scheduled species and any person for the time being in
   occupation of any premises;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Endangered Species

5  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

   “permit” means a permit or certificate issued by the Director-
      General under section 7(3) or deemed (by section 30) to have
      been issued under this Act;

                                                                          [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

   “plant” means any member of the Plant Kingdom, whether live
      or dead, and any readily recognisable part or derivative of a
      plant;

   “premises” includes any house, hut, shed, structure, platform,
      path, bridge, open space, building or enclosure whether
      roofed or not;

   [Deleted by Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

   [Deleted by Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

   “readily recognisable part or derivative” —

   (a) for an animal, means any substantially complete
        animal, or any part or derivative of an animal, in
        natural form, stuffed, chilled, preserved, dried or
        otherwise treated or prepared (which may or may not
        be contained in preparations), and includes —

   (i) any meat, bone, hide, skin, leather, tusk, horn,
       antler, gland, feather, hair, tooth, claw, shell,
       scale or egg of an animal; or

   (ii) any thing which is claimed by any person, or
        which appears from any accompanying
        document, or any packaging, label or mark,
        or any other circumstances, to contain any part
        or derivative of an animal,

   (a) but does not include any urine, faeces or ambergris
        that has been naturally excreted; and

   (b) for a plant, means any substantially complete plant,
        or any part or derivative of a plant, in natural form,
        preserved, dried or otherwise treated or prepared
        (which may or may not be contained in preparations),
        and includes —

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             6

          (i) any seed, stem, leaf, bark, root, log, flower,
              fruit or pod of a plant; or

               (ii) any thing which is claimed by any person, or
                    which appears from any accompanying
                    document, or any packaging, label or mark,
                    or any other circumstances, to contain any part
                    or derivative of a plant;

                                                                       [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

“recent lineage”, in relation to a hybrid animal, means 4
   generations in the lineage of the hybrid animal that
   immediately precede the hybrid animal;

                                                                       [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

“re‑export” means the export of any scheduled species that has
   previously been imported;

“sale” or “sell” includes barter or exchange;

“sample”, in relation to a scheduled species, means the
   scheduled species or any part thereof;

“scheduled species” means —

          (a) any animal specified in the Schedule, including any
               readily recognisable part or derivative of the animal;

          (b) any hybrid animal that has in its recent lineage any
               animal specified in Appendix I or II of the Schedule,
               including any readily recognisable part or derivative
               of the hybrid animal;

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          (c) any plant specified in the Schedule, including any
               readily recognisable part or derivative of the plant; or

                                                                     [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          (d) any hybrid plant that is derived from one or more
               plants specified in the Schedule, including any
               readily recognisable part or derivative of the hybrid
               plant;

                                                                     [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Endangered Species

7  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

   “seized item” means any scheduled species, article, conveyance,
      receptacle, package or other thing seized by an authorised
      officer under this Act.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, a reference
to —

   (a) an animal specified in Appendix I of the Schedule includes
        a reference to a hybrid animal that has the firstmentioned
        animal in the recent lineage of the hybrid animal; or

   (b) an animal specified in Appendix II of the Schedule
        includes a reference to a hybrid animal (not being a
        hybrid animal mentioned in paragraph (a)) that has the
        firstmentioned animal in the recent lineage of the hybrid
        animal.

                                                                        [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Meaning of transit in Singapore

 2A. For the purposes of this Act, a scheduled species is in transit in
Singapore only if —

       (a) the scheduled species is supported by a prescribed
            document that —

               (i) is issued on or before, or within 14 days after, the
                   date on which the scheduled species is brought into
                   Singapore; and

              (ii) specifies a port, an airport or any other place outside
                   Singapore as the destination for the scheduled
                   species; and

       (b) one of the following conditions is satisfied:

               (i) the scheduled species remains at all times in or on the
                   conveyance in or on which it is brought into
                   Singapore, pending transport of the scheduled
                   species to the port, airport or other place outside
                   Singapore;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             8

          (ii) the scheduled species is removed from the
               conveyance in or on which it is brought into
               Singapore and is either returned to the same
               conveyance or transferred directly to another
               conveyance, pending transport of the scheduled
               species to the port, airport or other place outside
               Singapore, and is kept under the control of the
               Director-General or an authorised officer while
               being so removed, returned or transferred;

          (iii) the scheduled species is removed from the
                conveyance in or on which it is brought into
                Singapore and kept under the control of the
                Director-General or an authorised officer for a
                period not exceeding 14 days, or such longer
                period as the Director-General may approve,
                pending transport of the scheduled species to the
                port, airport or other place outside Singapore.

                                                                      [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Appointment of Director‑General and authorised officers

 3.—(1) The Board is responsible for the administration of this Act,
and to that end, the Board must appoint an officer of the Board to be
the Director‑General, Wildlife Trade Control.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) The Director‑General may, subject to the directions of the
Board, appoint any of the following persons to be an authorised
officer for the purpose of assisting the Director‑General in
administering and carrying out the provisions of this Act or any
other written law which confers powers on the Director‑General:

       (a) an employee of the Board;

       (b) an employee of another statutory authority;

       (c) a public officer who is not a police officer or an officer of
            customs within the meaning of the Customs Act 1960;

       (d) an auxiliary police officer appointed under the Police
            Force Act 2004.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
   Endangered Species

9  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

 (3) The Director‑General may delegate the exercise of all or any of
the powers conferred or duties imposed upon the Director‑General by
any provision of this Act or any other written law (except the power
of delegation conferred by this subsection) to an authorised officer;
and any reference in the provision of this Act or any other written law
to the Director‑General includes a reference to such an authorised
officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (4) Any delegation under subsection (3) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the Board may specify.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) The Director‑General may, for any reason that appears to the
Director‑General to be sufficient, at any time revoke a person’s
appointment as an authorised officer.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) A person mentioned in subsection (2)(d) who is appointed as an
authorised officer does not, by virtue only of the appointment,
become an employee or agent of the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

                                    PART 2

               CONTROL OF IMPORT, EXPORT, ETC.,
                       OF SCHEDULED SPECIES

Restriction on import, export, etc., of scheduled species

 4.—(1) Any person who —

       (a) imports, introduces from the sea, exports or re-exports any
            scheduled species without a valid permit;

       (b) has in the person’s possession or under the person’s
            control, or sells, or offers, exposes or advertises for sale, or
            displays to the public, any scheduled species that is
            imported, or introduced from the sea, without a valid
            permit; or

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             10

          (c) sells, or offers, exposes or advertises for sale, or displays to
              the public, any scheduled species that is specified by the
              Minister by notification in the Gazette,

shall be guilty of an offence.

 (2) Any person (except a person mentioned in section 5A(1) or (2))
who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c) shall be
liable on conviction —

(a) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
     or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
     Appendix I of the Schedule — to a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 for each specimen of that scheduled species (but
     not exceeding $500,000 for, or the market value (at the
     material time of the offence) of, all the specimens of that
     scheduled species comprised in the offence, whichever is
     higher) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
     years or to both; and

(b) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
     or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
     Appendix II or III of the Schedule — to a fine not
     exceeding $50,000 for each specimen of that scheduled
     species (but not exceeding $500,000 for, or the market
     value (at the material time of the offence) of, all the
     specimens of that scheduled species comprised in the
     offence, whichever is higher) or to imprisonment for a term
     not exceeding 4 years or to both.

(3) In this section and sections 5 and 5A —

“material time”, for an offence, means the time of commission
   of the offence;

“specimen” means an animal or a plant.

                                        [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Control of scheduled species in transit

 5.—(1) Every scheduled species in transit in Singapore must be
accompanied by —

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

11  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    (a) a valid CITES permit or certificate, or any other similar
         document, that is issued by the competent authority of the
         country of export or re-export of the scheduled species for
         the export or re-export of the scheduled species, and
         contains the prescribed information; and

    (b) where required by the country of import or final destination
         of the scheduled species — a valid CITES permit or
         certificate, or any other similar document, that is issued by
         the competent authority of that country or destination for
         the import of the scheduled species, and contains the
         prescribed information.

 (2) Different information may be prescribed under
subsection (1)(a) or (b) for different classes of cases.

 (3) Without limiting the expression “valid” in subsection (1)(a) or
(b) —

    (a) any document mentioned in subsection (1)(a) that is issued
         or purported to be issued by a competent authority for the
         export or re-export of any scheduled species after the date
         of the export or re-export (as the case may be) is not valid
         for the purposes of that provision unless —

    (i) the scheduled species is a scheduled species
        specified in Appendix II or III of the Schedule; and

    (ii) the circumstances that led to the retrospective issue
         of the document were not caused or contributed to by
         the exporter or re-exporter (as the case may be), or
         the importer, of the scheduled species; and

    (b) any document mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b) that is
         issued or purported to be issued by a competent authority
         and contains any alteration is not valid for the purposes of
         that provision unless the alteration is —

    (i) endorsed with the seal or stamp of the competent
        authority; and

    (ii) authenticated by the signature (or signatures) of the
         person (or persons) who is (or are) authorised to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             12

          authenticate the alteration for the competent
          authority.

 (4) Any owner, importer, exporter or re-exporter of the scheduled
species who contravenes subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (5) Any person (except a person mentioned in section 5A(1) or (2))
who is guilty of an offence under subsection (4) shall be liable on
conviction —

(a) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
     or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
     Appendix I of the Schedule — to a fine not exceeding
     $100,000 for each specimen of that scheduled species (but
     not exceeding $500,000 for, or the market value (at the
     material time of the offence) of, all the specimens of that
     scheduled species comprised in the offence, whichever is
     higher) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6
     years or to both; and

(b) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
     or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
     Appendix II or III of the Schedule — to a fine not
     exceeding $50,000 for each specimen of that scheduled
     species (but not exceeding $500,000 for, or the market
     value (at the material time of the offence) of, all the
     specimens of that scheduled species comprised in the
     offence, whichever is higher) or to imprisonment for a term
     not exceeding 4 years or to both.

 (6) In this section, “alteration”, for a document, includes deletion or
erasure of anything in the document.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Penalty for corporate offenders, etc., for offence under
section 4 or 5

 5A.—(1) Any corporation, unincorporated association or
partnership that is guilty of an offence under section 4(1)(a), (b) or
(c) or 5(4) shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
            or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

13  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    Appendix I of the Schedule — to a fine not exceeding
    $200,000 for each specimen of that scheduled species (but
    not exceeding $1 million for, or the market value (at the
    material time of the offence) of, all the specimens of that
    scheduled species comprised in the offence, whichever is
    higher); and

    (b) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
         or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
         Appendix II or III of the Schedule — to a fine not
         exceeding $100,000 for each specimen of that scheduled
         species (but not exceeding $1 million for, or the market
         value (at the material time of the offence) of, all the
         specimens of that scheduled species comprised in the
         offence, whichever is higher).

 (2) Where a person mentioned in section 20(2) or 20A(2) in relation
to a corporation, an unincorporated association or a partnership is
guilty of the same offence mentioned in subsection (1) as is the
corporation, unincorporated association or partnership, the person
shall be liable on conviction —

    (a) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
         or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
         Appendix I of the Schedule — to a fine not exceeding the
         amount specified in subsection (1)(a) or to imprisonment
         for a term not exceeding 8 years or to both; and

    (b) in the case where the offence is committed in respect of one
         or more specimens of any scheduled species specified in
         Appendix II or III of the Schedule — to a fine not
         exceeding the amount specified in subsection (1)(b) or to
         imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 years or to both.

                                                                         [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Defence to offence under section 4 or 5

 6.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), in any proceedings for an offence
under section 4 or 5, it is a defence for the person charged to prove —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             14

(a) that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
     default of another person or to some other cause beyond
     the control of the person charged; and

(b) that the person charged took all reasonable precautions and
     exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of such
     an offence by the person charged or by any person under
     the control of the person charged.

 (2) If in any case the defence provided by subsection (1) involves
the allegation that the commission of the offence was due to the act or
default of another person, the person charged is not, without the
permission of the court, entitled to rely on that defence unless, within
a period ending 7 clear days before the hearing, the person charged
has served on the prosecutor a written notice giving such information
as was then in the possession of the person charged identifying or
assisting in the identification of that other person.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

Permit for import, export, etc., of scheduled species

 7.—(1) Any person who wishes to import, introduce from the sea,
export or re-export any scheduled species must apply to the Director-
General for a permit.

 (2) Every application under subsection (1) must —

       (a) be made in the form and manner that the Director-General
            requires; and

       (b) be supported by the documents and information that the
            Director-General requires to decide on the application.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), the Director-General may do either of
the following on an application made in respect of any scheduled
species under subsection (1):

       (a) issue to the applicant a permit or certificate to import,
            introduce from the sea, export or re-export (as the case may
            be) the scheduled species, subject to any condition or
            restriction the Director-General thinks fit;

       (b) refuse the application.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

15  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

 (4) The Director-General must refuse an application in respect of
any scheduled species made under subsection (1) that is accompanied
or supported by any CITES permit or certificate, or any other similar
document (called in this subsection the document), if —

    (a) the document is issued or purported to be issued by the
         competent authority of a country for the export or re-export
         of the scheduled species after the date of the export or re-
         export (as the case may be) and —

    (i) the scheduled species is a scheduled species
        specified in Appendix I of the Schedule; or

    (ii) the circumstances that led to the retrospective issue
         of the document were caused by or contributed to by
         the exporter or re-exporter (as the case may be), or
         the importer, of the scheduled species; or

    (b) the document is issued or purported to be issued by the
         competent authority of a country for the import, export or
         re-export of the scheduled species and contains any
         alteration, unless the alteration is —

    (i) endorsed with the seal or stamp of the competent
        authority; and

    (ii) authenticated by the signature (or signatures) of the
         person (or persons) who is (or are) authorised to
         authenticate the alteration for the competent
         authority.

 (5) In this section, “alteration”, for a document, includes deletion or
erasure of anything in the document.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Cancellation of permit

 8.—(1) The Director‑General may at any time cancel a permit if —

       (a) any condition or restriction of the permit is contravened; or

       (b) the Director‑General is satisfied that the permit was issued
            as a result of a misleading statement or a misrepresentation
            of a material fact.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             16

 (2) Where the Director‑General cancels a permit under
subsection (1), the Director‑General must immediately notify the
holder of the permit.

 (3) Where the Director‑General has notified the holder of a permit
under subsection (2) of the cancellation of the holder’s permit, the
holder of the permit must immediately surrender the permit to the
Director‑General.

 (4) Any holder of a permit who, without reasonable excuse,
contravenes subsection (3) shall be guilty of an offence.

Certification that item is or is not scheduled species, etc.

 8A.—(1) The Director‑General may, on the application of any
person, certify that any animal, hybrid animal, plant or hybrid plant,
including any readily recognisable part or derivative thereof, is or is
not a scheduled species.

 (2) The Director-General may, on the application of any person,
endorse a declaration that any product to be exported or re‑exported
by the person does not comprise or contain a scheduled species.

 (3) The Director‑General may —

       (a) require any declaration submitted for endorsement under
            subsection (2) to be made in a specified form and manner;
            and

       (b) decline to endorse any declaration or class of declarations.

 (4) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Director‑General or an
authorised officer may inspect, examine or analyse the animal, hybrid
animal, plant or hybrid plant, or a part or derivative or sample thereof.

 (5) For the purpose of subsection (2), the Director‑General or an
authorised officer may inspect, examine or analyse the product or a
sample thereof.

                                                                               [Act 15 of 2026 wef 01/07/2026]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                     Endangered Species

17  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

                     PART 3

    ENFORCEMENT POWERS AND PROCEEDINGS

Power of inspection

 9. An authorised officer may, for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with this Act, do all or any of the following:

    (a) at any reasonable time enter and inspect any premises or
         conveyance in which the officer reasonably believes there
         is any item to which this Act applies or any document
         relating to the administration of this Act;

    (b) open or cause to be opened any door, window, lock,
         fastener, compartment, box, container or any other thing
         that the officer reasonably believes contains any such item
         or document;

    (c) inspect any such item, and take such item or any sample
        thereof free of charge;

    (d) inspect or copy, in whole or in part, any such document;

    (e) make such examination or inquiry as may be necessary to
        ascertain whether the provisions of this Act have been
        complied with;

    (f) exercise such other powers as may be reasonable and
        necessary for giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

Power to investigate and require information

 10.—(1) Where the Director‑General has reason to believe that any
person has contravened any provision of this Act, the
Director‑General may investigate the matter and, for the purposes
of any such investigation, the Director‑General may —

       (a) call upon any authorised officer to make whatever
            preliminary investigation the Director‑General considers
            necessary;

       (b) require the production for inspection by the
            Director‑General or any authorised officer of any book,

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             18

          document or paper which may relate to or be connected
          with the subject matter of the investigation;

          (c) require any person to give all information in relation to any
              such book, document or paper which may be reasonably
              required by the Director‑General or the authorised officer;

(d) require any person to furnish any other information as the
     Director‑General or the authorised officer may require; and

       (e) by written order require any person in Singapore whom the
            Director‑General or authorised officer has reason to
            believe to be acquainted with any fact or circumstance
            relevant to that purpose to attend before the
            Director‑General or authorised officer to answer any
            question (to the best of that person’s knowledge,
            information and belief) and to furnish any document or
            information.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (2) If the Director‑General has reason to suspect that any scheduled
species found in any premises or conveyance or in the possession of
any person has been imported or introduced from the sea, the
Director‑General may require any person who has in the person’s
possession or custody or under the person’s control the scheduled
species —

(a) to declare its scientific name; and

(b) to furnish to the Director‑General such other information
     as the Director‑General may require.

 (3) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may record any
information furnished by any person under subsection (1) or (2) as a
statement which is admissible as evidence in any proceedings in
connection with any offence under this Act.

 (4) The person mentioned in subsection (1)(e) is bound to state truly
the facts and circumstances with which the person is acquainted
concerning the case except only that the person may decline to make,
with regard to any fact or circumstance, a statement which would

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

19  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

have a tendency to expose the person to a criminal charge or to
penalty or forfeiture.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (5) A statement made by any person examined under
subsection (1)(e) must —

    (a) be reduced to writing;

    (b) be read over to the person;

    (c) if the person does not understand English, be interpreted in
        a language that the person understands; and

       (d) after correction (if necessary), be signed by the person.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

 (6) If any person fails to attend before the Director‑General or an
authorised officer as required by an order under subsection (1)(e), the
Director‑General or authorised officer may report the failure to a
Magistrate who may issue a warrant to secure the attendance of that
person as required by the order.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Power of entry, search and seizure

 11.—(1) An authorised officer may —

       (a) without warrant enter and search any premises and stop,
            board and search any conveyance in or on which the
            authorised officer reasonably suspects that there is to be
            found any scheduled species in contravention of this Act;
            and

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

       (b) search any person found in such premises or conveyance.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

       (c) [Deleted by Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (2) For the purpose of exercising his or her power under this Act, an
authorised officer may, with such assistance as he or she thinks
necessary, break open any door, window, lock, fastener,
compartment, box, container or any other thing.

 (3) An authorised officer may seize the following:

       (a) any scheduled species liable to seizure;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             20

(b) any receptacle or package in which the scheduled species
     mentioned in paragraph (a) is found, and any handling or
     other device used for or in connection with the scheduled
     species;

          (c) any thing (including any animal or plant that is not a
              scheduled species) that is used to conceal the scheduled
              species mentioned in paragraph (a);

(d) any article or conveyance with which, or by means of
     which, an offence under section 4 or 5 is reasonably
     suspected to be, or has been, committed;

          (e) any food or drink which accompanies the scheduled
              species mentioned in paragraph (a);

        (f) any other thing which appears to be or to contain evidence
            of an offence under section 4 or 5.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (3A) Where any thing seized under subsection (3) is perishable, the
Director-General or an authorised officer may dispose of it in any
manner that the Director-General or authorised officer thinks fit.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (4) For the purposes of this section, any animal or plant is liable to
seizure if an authorised officer has reason to suspect that it is a
scheduled species —

(a) which is being or has been imported, introduced from the
     sea, exported or re-exported in contravention of
     section 4(1)(a);

                                                                     [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

(b) which is possessed by or under the control of or being sold
     or offered or exposed or advertised for sale, or being
     displayed in contravention of section 4(1)(b);

                                                                     [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

(c) which is being sold or offered or exposed or advertised for
     sale, or being displayed in contravention of section 4(1)(c);
     or

                                                                     [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

(d) which is in transit in Singapore in contravention of
     section 5(1).

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

21  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

Powers ancillary to inspections and searches

 12.—(1) For the purpose of carrying out an inspection under
section 9 or a search under section 11, an authorised officer may stop
a conveyance or direct that it be moved to a place where the
inspection or search may be carried out.

 (2) Any item (including any sample thereof) taken under section 9,
or any animal, plant or item seized under section 11(3), may be kept
or stored in the premises or conveyance where it was taken or seized
(as the case may be) or may, at the direction of the Director‑General
or an authorised officer, be removed to any other place to be kept or
stored thereat.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

 (3) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may subject any
animal, plant or item referred to in subsection (2) to such examination
or analysis as the Director‑General or authorised officer may consider
necessary for the purposes of the administration of this Act.

 (4) No compensation is payable in respect of any animal, plant or
item which is damaged or otherwise destroyed by virtue of any
examination or analysis under subsection (3), unless the damage or
destruction is directly attributable to the negligence or default of the
Director‑General or the authorised officer.

 (5) The Director‑General or an authorised officer may mark, seal or
label any animal, plant or item referred to in subsection (2) in any
manner that the Director‑General or authorised officer thinks fit and
may lock or seal the premises, conveyance or other place in which it
is being kept or stored.

 (6) Any person who, without the authority of the Director‑General
or an authorised officer —

    (a) interferes or tampers with, removes, distributes, sells or
         otherwise disposes of any animal, plant or item referred to
         in subsection (2);

    (b) opens, breaks or otherwise tampers with the lock or seal
         placed by the Director‑General or an authorised officer on
         any premises or conveyance or part thereof under
         subsection (5); or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             22

          (c) alters, counterfeits, defaces, destroys, erases or removes
              any mark, seal or label placed by the Director‑General or
              an authorised officer on any animal, plant or item under
              subsection (5),

shall be guilty of an offence.

Authorised officer’s assistants

 12A. An authorised officer may be accompanied or assisted by
persons necessary for the exercise of the authorised officer’s powers
under section 9, 11 or 12.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Power to require scheduled species to be marked, etc.

 13.—(1) The Director‑General may require any owner, importer,
exporter or re‑exporter of scheduled species to brand, label or
otherwise mark the scheduled species to the satisfaction of the
Director‑General.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), the Director‑General may brand, label or
mark any such scheduled species.

 (3) Any person who contravenes any requirement of the
Director‑General under subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.

 (4) Any person who alters, counterfeits, defaces, destroys, erases or
removes any brand, label or mark referred to in subsection (1) or (2)
without the prior approval of the Director‑General shall be guilty of
an offence.

 (5) In this section, a reference to the labelling or marking of
scheduled species includes a reference to the following:

       (a) in the case of a plant —

               (i) the labelling or marking of a container in which the
                   plant is kept or in which the plant is growing; or

              (ii) the placement of a label or tag on the plant; and

       (b) in the case of an animal —

               (i) the implantation of a scannable device in the animal;

              (ii) the placement of a band on any part of the animal;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

23  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    (iii) the placement (whether by piercing or otherwise) of
          a tag, tattoo or ring on any part of the animal; or

    (iv) the labelling or marking of a container in which the
         animal is kept.

Power of arrest

 14.—(1) The Director‑General or any authorised officer may arrest
without warrant any person committing or attempting to commit or
whom the Director‑General or authorised officer reasonably suspects
of being engaged in committing or attempting to commit any offence
under this Act.

 (2) The Director‑General or any authorised officer making an arrest
without warrant must, subject to subsection (3), without unnecessary
delay bring the person arrested before a Magistrate’s Court or a
District Court.

 (3) No person who has been arrested by the Director‑General or any
authorised officer is to be released, except on the person’s own bond
or on bail or on the special order in writing of the Magistrate, the
District Judge or the Director‑General.

Seized items liable or not liable to forfeiture

 15. All seized items are liable to forfeiture under section 15A or
15B, except a conveyance which —

       (a) is of more than 200 tons net; or

       (b) is an aircraft or a train belonging to a person carrying on a
            regular passenger service to and from Singapore by means
            of that aircraft or train.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Forfeiture, etc., of seized items by court in criminal
proceedings

 15A.—(1) A court may, in any criminal proceeding against a person
for an offence under this Act, order that a seized item in connection
with the offence be forfeited to the Director-General if —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             24

(a) where the seized item is a conveyance — the person is
     convicted of the offence and the conveyance is proved to
     have been used in the commission of the offence; or

(b) where the seized item is not a conveyance — the court is
     satisfied that an offence under this Act has been committed
     and that the seized item was the subject matter, or used (or
     intended to have been used) in the commission, or
     constitutes evidence, of the offence.

 (2) The court may consider the question of forfeiture under
subsection (1) on its own motion if no party raises the question in
the proceedings before the court.

 (3) A conveyance mentioned in subsection (1)(a) must not be
forfeited under that provision if its owner establishes that the
conveyance was unlawfully in the possession of another person
without the consent of the owner.

 (4) The court may make an order under subsection (1)(b) for the
forfeiture of any seized item even though no person is convicted of an
offence.

 (5) If the court does not order the forfeiture of a seized item under
subsection (1), the court may —

(a) order the release of the seized item to the owner of or the
     person entitled to the seized item; or

(b) where the owner of or the person entitled to the seized item
     cannot be ascertained or found — make any order or give
     any direction that the court thinks fit in relation to the
     disposal of the seized item.

 (6) The court must not order the release of a seized item under
subsection (5) if the court is satisfied that the seized item is relevant
for the purposes of any investigation or criminal proceeding for an
offence under this Act.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

25  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

Forfeiture, etc., of seized items (except conveyance) in other
circumstances

 15B.—(1) The Director-General must, in respect of a seized item,
give its owner (if known) and the person from whom it was seized a
written notice requiring any claim for the seized item to be made in
accordance with subsection (2) within the time specified in the notice,
if —

    (a) no criminal proceeding is instituted against any person for
         an offence under this Act in relation to the seized item; and

    (b) the Director-General is satisfied that the seized item is not
         relevant for the purposes of any investigation under this
         Act.

 (2) A person who wishes to claim the seized item (called in this
section the claimant) must submit, either personally or through an
authorised agent, a written claim (containing the basis of the
claimant’s claim) to the Director-General.

(3) The seized item is forfeited to the Director-General if —

    (a) no claim is received for the seized item within the period
         stated in the written notice mentioned in subsection (1); or

    (b) the owner of the seized item consents to its disposal by the
         Director-General.

 (4) If the Director-General receives a written claim for the seized
item under subsection (2) within the period stated in the written notice
mentioned in subsection (1), the Director-General may release the
seized item to the claimant or refer the matter to a District Judge or
Magistrate for decision.

 (5) Where the Director-General refers the matter to a District Judge
or Magistrate for decision under subsection (4), the District Judge or
Magistrate may issue a summons requiring the claimant or any other
person to appear before the District Judge or Magistrate to be
examined or give evidence on the matter.

 (6) The District Judge or Magistrate may order that the seized item
be forfeited to the Director-General, if the District Judge or
Magistrate is satisfied that an offence under this Act has been

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             26

committed and that the seized item was the subject matter, or used (or
intended to have been used) in the commission, or constitutes
evidence, of the offence.

 (7) If the District Judge or Magistrate does not order the forfeiture
of a seized item under subsection (6), the District Judge or Magistrate
may —

(a) order the release of the seized item to the owner of or the
     person entitled to the seized item; or

(b) where the owner of or the person entitled to the seized item
     cannot be ascertained or found — make any order or give
     any direction that the District Judge or Magistrate thinks fit
     in relation to the disposal of the seized item.

 (8) In this section and section 15C, “authorised agent”, for a
claimant, means a person who is designated in writing by the claimant
as the claimant’s authorised agent for the purposes of the applicable
section.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Release of seized conveyance in other circumstances

 15C.—(1) Where a conveyance is seized under this Act, the
Director-General must give its owner (if known) and the person from
whom it was seized a written notice requiring any claim for the
conveyance to be made in accordance with subsection (2) within the
time specified in the notice, if —

       (a) no criminal proceeding is instituted against any person for
            an offence under this Act in relation to the conveyance; and

       (b) the Director-General is satisfied that the conveyance is not
            relevant for the purposes of any investigation under this
            Act.

 (2) A person who wishes to claim the conveyance (called in this
section the claimant) must submit, either personally or through an
authorised agent, a written claim (containing the basis of the
claimant’s claim) to the Director-General.

 (3) Subject to subsection (4), if the Director-General receives a
written claim for the conveyance under subsection (2) within the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

27  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

period stated in the written notice mentioned in subsection (1), the
Director-General must release the conveyance to the claimant.

 (4) The Director-General may refer the matter to a District Judge or
Magistrate for decision if —

    (a) no claim is received for the conveyance within the period
         stated in the written notice mentioned in subsection (1); or

    (b) the Director-General is unable to ascertain the owner of or
         the person entitled to the conveyance.

 (5) Where the Director-General refers the matter to a District Judge
or Magistrate for decision under subsection (4), the District Judge or
Magistrate may issue a summons requiring the claimant or any other
person to appear before the District Judge or Magistrate to be
examined or give evidence on the matter.

 (6) After considering the matter, the District Judge or Magistrate
may —

    (a) order the release of the conveyance to the owner of or the
         person entitled to the conveyance; or

    (b) where the owner of or the person entitled to the
         conveyance cannot be ascertained or found — make any
         order or give any direction that the District Judge or
         Magistrate thinks fit in relation to the disposal of the
         conveyance.

                                                                         [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Director-General’s powers after forfeiture

 15D.—(1) Where any item is forfeited to the Director-General
under or pursuant to section 15A or 15B, the Director-General
may —

       (a) in the case where the item is a scheduled species which was
            brought into Singapore in or on a conveyance in
            contravention of this Act — direct the owner of the
            conveyance to repatriate the scheduled species to the place
            from which the scheduled species was brought into
            Singapore or any other place designated by the Director-
            General; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             28

(b) in any case — dispose of the item in any manner that the
     Director-General thinks fit.

 (2) The owner of a conveyance who is directed to repatriate any
scheduled species under subsection (1)(a) must, at the owner’s
expense, arrange for —

(a) the repatriation of the scheduled species in accordance
     with the direction; and

(b) the proper care and maintenance of the scheduled species
     during the repatriation.

 (3) A person is not required to comply with subsection (2) in respect
of a direction made under subsection (1)(a) unless the direction is
made within —

(a) 12 months after the date on which the scheduled species
     mentioned in the direction was brought into Singapore; or

(b) 6 months after the date on which criminal proceedings for
     the offence in connection with the contravention
     mentioned in subsection (1)(a) are concluded or the date
     on which the offence is compounded,

whichever is the later.

 (4) Any person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes
subsection (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 12 months or to both.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Expenses

 15E.—(1) The following persons are responsible for any expenses
incurred by the Director-General or any authorised officer for the
seizure, detention, storage, housing, care, maintenance, testing,
transport, repatriation or disposal of any seized item:

       (a) in the case where the item is a scheduled species which was
            brought into Singapore in contravention of this Act — the
            owner of the scheduled species and the person who brought
            the scheduled species, or caused the scheduled species to
            be brought, into Singapore (jointly and severally);

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

29  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    (b) in the case where the item is a scheduled species which was
         being exported or re-exported from Singapore in
         contravention of this Act — the owner, and the exporter
         or re-exporter (as the case may be), of the scheduled
         species (jointly and severally);

    (c) in the case where the item is seized in connection with —

    (i) any scheduled species mentioned in paragraph (a) —
        the persons mentioned in that paragraph, jointly and
        severally; or

    (ii) any scheduled species mentioned in paragraph (b) —
         the persons mentioned in that paragraph, jointly and
         severally;

    (d) in any other case — the owner of the item.

 (2) If the amount of the expenses mentioned in subsection (1) is not
paid by the person responsible for the expenses under that subsection
within 14 days after demand, the amount may be reported to a
Magistrate’s Court or a District Court and recovered in the same
manner as if it were a fine imposed by a Magistrate’s Court or a
District Court.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Obstruction

 16. Any person who —

       (a) obstructs or impedes the Director‑General or any
            authorised officer in the execution of the
            Director‑General’s or authorised officer’s duty under this
            Act; or

       (b) without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to produce or
            furnish any book, document, paper or information or
            render all necessary assistance as may be required or
            directed by the Director‑General or an authorised officer,

shall be guilty of an offence.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             30

Penalty for false declarations, etc.

 17.—(1) Any person who, being required by this Act to make or
furnish any declaration, statement, representation or information or to
produce any document or who, for the purpose of obtaining any
permit under this Act —

(a) makes or furnishes any declaration, statement,
     representation or information which is false or
     misleading in a material particular; or

                                                                     [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

(b) produces any document which the person knows or has
     reason to believe —

          (i) is false or misleading in any material particular;

          (ii) has not been given by the person by whom it is
               purported to have been given; or

          (iii) contains any unauthorised alteration or has been
                tampered with in any way,

                                                                      [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

shall be guilty of an offence.

                                      [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

(2) Any person who —

(a) without lawful authority alters, forges, mutilates or defaces
     any permit; or

(b) knowingly makes use of any permit which has been so
     altered, forged, mutilated or defaced,

shall be guilty of an offence.

General penalty

 18. Any person guilty of an offence under this Act for which no
penalty is expressly provided shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding $10,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
12 months or to both.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      Endangered Species

31  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

Abetment of offences

 19. Any person who abets the commission of, or who attempts to
commit, any offence under this Act shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable on conviction to be punished with the punishment
provided for the offence.

Offences by corporations

 20.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it is
necessary to prove the state of mind of a corporation in relation to a
particular conduct, evidence that —

       (a) an officer, employee or agent of the corporation engaged in
            that conduct within the scope of his or her actual or
            apparent authority; and

       (b) the officer, employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the corporation had that state of mind.

 (2) Where a corporation commits an offence under this Act, a
person —

       (a) who is —

               (i) an officer of the corporation; or

              (ii) an individual involved in the management of the
                   corporation and in a position to influence the conduct
                   of the corporation in relation to the commission of
                   the offence; and

       (b) who —

               (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
                   effect the commission of the offence;

              (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
                   knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
                   commission of the offence by the corporation; or

             (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
                   offence by the corporation (or an offence of the same
                   type) would be or is being committed, and failed to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             32

          take all reasonable steps to prevent or stop the
          commission of that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the corporation, and shall be
liable on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the corporation if it were charged with the
offence with which the person is charged and, in doing so, the person
bears the same burden of proof that the corporation would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of the
corporation for an offence under this Act, and applies whether or not
the corporation is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to a corporation, means any director,
   partner, chief executive, manager, secretary or other similar
   officer of the corporation, and includes —

          (a) any person purporting to act in any such capacity; and

          (b) for a corporation whose affairs are managed by its
               members, any of those members as if the member
               were a director of the corporation;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
               or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modification that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any corporation formed or recognised under
the law of a territory outside Singapore.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

33             (Import and Export) Act 2006                  2020 Ed.

Offences by unincorporated associations or partnerships

 20A.—(1) Where, in a proceeding for an offence under this Act, it
is necessary to prove the state of mind of an unincorporated
association or a partnership in relation to a particular conduct,
evidence that —

    (a) an employee or agent of the unincorporated association or
         partnership engaged in that conduct within the scope of his
         or her actual or apparent authority; and

    (b) the employee or agent had that state of mind,

is evidence that the unincorporated association or partnership had that
state of mind.

 (2) Where an unincorporated association or a partnership commits
an offence under this Act, a person —

    (a) who is —

    (i) an officer of the unincorporated association or a
        member of its governing body;

    (ii) a partner in the partnership; or

    (iii) an individual involved in the management of the
          unincorporated association or partnership and in a
          position to influence the conduct of the
          unincorporated association or partnership (as the
          case may be) in relation to the commission of the
          offence; and

    (b) who —

    (i) consented or connived, or conspired with others, to
        effect the commission of the offence;

    (ii) is in any other way, whether by act or omission,
         knowingly concerned in, or is party to, the
         commission of the offence by the unincorporated
         association or partnership; or

    (iii) knew or ought reasonably to have known that the
          offence by the unincorporated association or
          partnership (or an offence of the same type) would

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             34

          be or is being committed, and failed to take all
          reasonable steps to prevent or stop the commission of
          that offence,

shall be guilty of that same offence as is the unincorporated
association or partnership (as the case may be), and shall be liable
on conviction to be punished accordingly.

 (3) A person mentioned in subsection (2) may rely on a defence that
would be available to the unincorporated association or partnership if
it were charged with the offence with which the person is charged
and, in doing so, the person bears the same burden of proof as the
unincorporated association or partnership would bear.

(4) To avoid doubt, this section does not affect the application of —

(a) Chapters 5 and 5A of the Penal Code 1871; or

(b) the Evidence Act 1893 or any other law or practice
     regarding the admissibility of evidence.

 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (2) does not affect the liability of an
unincorporated association or a partnership for an offence under this
Act, and applies whether or not the unincorporated association or
partnership is convicted of the offence.

(6) In this section —

“officer”, in relation to an unincorporated association (other than
   a partnership), means the president, the secretary, or any
   member of the committee of the unincorporated association,
   and includes —

          (a) any person holding a position analogous to that of
               president, secretary or member of a committee of the
               unincorporated association; and

          (b) any person purporting to act in any such capacity;

“partner” includes a person purporting to act as a partner;

“state of mind” of a person includes —

          (a) the knowledge, intention, opinion, belief or purpose
               of the person; and

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

35  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    (b) the person’s reasons for the intention, opinion, belief
         or purpose.

 (7) The Minister may make rules to provide for the application of
any provision of this section, with any modification that the Minister
considers appropriate, to any unincorporated association or
partnership formed or recognised under the law of a territory
outside Singapore.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Advisory Committee

 21.—(1) The Minister may establish an Advisory Committee
consisting of such members as the Minister may appoint.

 (2) The Advisory Committee is to advise the Director‑General upon
any question which the Director‑General may refer to it in connection
with the administration of this Act.

Fees, etc., payable to Board

 22. All fees, charges and moneys collected under this Act or any
rules made under this Act (except composition sums) must be paid to
the Board.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Evidence

 22A. A document purporting to be under the hand of the Director-
General or an authorised officer on any matter or thing in connection
with the administration or enforcement of, or any investigation
carried out under, this Act is admissible as evidence in any
proceedings under this Act and is prima facie evidence of the facts
stated in the document.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Protection of informers

 22B.—(1) Except as provided in subsection (3), no witness in any
civil or criminal proceedings is obliged or permitted —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             36

(a) to disclose the name, address or other particulars of an
     informer who has given information with respect to an
     offence under this Act, or the substance of the information
     received from the informer; or

(b) to answer any question if the answer would lead, or would
     tend to lead, to the discovery of the name, address or other
     particulars of the informer.

 (2) If any document which is in evidence or liable to inspection in
any civil or criminal proceedings, contains any entry in which the
informer is named or described or which might lead to the discovery
of the informer’s identity, the court must cause the entry to be
concealed from view or to be obliterated so far only as may be
necessary to protect the informer from discovery.

(3) If, during any civil or criminal proceedings —

(a) the court, after full inquiry into the case, believes that the
     informer wilfully made a material statement which the
     informer knew or believed to be false or did not believe to
     be true; or

(b) the court is of the opinion that justice cannot be fully done
     in the proceedings without discovery of the identity of the
     informer,

it is lawful for the court to require the production of the original
information, in such form as the court may accept, and to permit
inquiry and require full disclosure of the informer.

 (4) In this section, “informer” includes every person who is not
called as a witness for the prosecution in a criminal case and who has
made any complaint or report or given any information in respect of
any offence under this Act alleged to have been committed by any
person.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Protection from personal liability

 22C. No liability shall lie against the Director-General or an
authorised officer, or any person acting under the direction of the
Director-General or an authorised officer, for anything which is done

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

37  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

or purported to be done, or omitted to be done, in good faith and with
reasonable care in —

    (a) the exercise or purported exercise of any power under this
         Act; or

    (b) the performance or purported performance of any function
         under this Act.

                                                                         [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

Board not liable for damage caused to goods or property as
result of search, etc.

 23. Subject to this Act, the Board is not liable to make good any
damage caused to or any loss of goods or property (including any
animal or plant) as a result of any entry, search, detention or anything
which is done under this Act.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Jurisdiction of court, etc.

 24.—(1) Despite any provision to the contrary in the Criminal
Procedure Code 2010, a District Court has jurisdiction to try any
offence under this Act and has power to impose the full penalty or
punishment in respect of the offence.

 (2) For the purpose of section 151 of the Criminal Procedure
Code 2010, on receiving the written complaint signed by the
Director‑General or an authorised officer, the Magistrate must
proceed to issue a summons or warrant in accordance with
section 153 of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

Composition of offences

 25.—(1) The Director‑General may compound any offence under
this Act that is prescribed as a compoundable offence by collecting
from a person reasonably suspected of having committed the offence
a sum not exceeding $5,000.

 (2) If an offence is compounded under this Act, any seized item
(except a conveyance) in connection with the offence is liable to
forfeiture under section 15A or 15B.

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             38

 (3) Subject to subsection (2), on payment of the sum of money, no
further proceedings may be taken against that person in respect of the
offence.

 (4) All composition sums collected under this section must be paid
into the Consolidated Fund.

                                                                                                           [10/2019]

Exemption

 26.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any
person or scheduled species or any class or description of persons or
scheduled species from all or any of the provisions of this Act, subject
to such terms or conditions as may be prescribed.

 (2) The Director‑General may on the application of any person, by
written notice, exempt the person from all or any of the provisions of
this Act if the Director‑General considers it appropriate to do so in the
circumstances of the case.

 (3) An exemption under subsection (2) —

       (a) may be granted subject to such terms or conditions as the
            Director‑General may specify by written notice;

       (b) need not be published in the Gazette; and

       (c) may be withdrawn at any time by the Director‑General.

Service of documents

 27.—(1) A document that is permitted or required by this Act to be
served on a person may be served as described in this section.

 (2) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on an
individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by prepaid registered post to the address
            specified by the individual for the service of documents or,
            if no address is so specified, the individual’s residential
            address or business address;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

39  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
        adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
        business address with an adult apparently employed there;

    (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
         at the individual’s residential address or business address;

    (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
        person giving or serving the document as the fax number
        for the service of documents on the individual; or

    (f) by sending it by email to the individual’s last email
        address.

 (3) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
partnership (other than a limited liability partnership) may be
served —

    (a) by giving it to any partner or other similar officer of the
         partnership;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the partnership’s business address;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
        partnership’s business address; or

    (d) by sending it by email to the partnership’s last email
         address.

 (4) A document permitted or required by this Act to be served on a
body corporate (including a limited liability partnership) or an
unincorporated association may be served —

    (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
         body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
         limited liability partnership’s manager;

    (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by prepaid registered post
         to, the body corporate’s or unincorporated association’s
         registered office or principal office in Singapore;

    (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the body
        corporate’s or unincorporated association’s registered
        office or principal office in Singapore; or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             40

(d) by sending it by email to the body corporate’s or
     unincorporated association’s last email address.

(5) Service of a document under this section takes effect —

(a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
     successful transmission is received, on the day of
     transmission;

(b) if the document is sent by email, at the time that the email
     becomes capable of being retrieved by the person to whom
     it is sent; and

          (c) if the document is sent by prepaid registered post, 2 days
              after the day the document was posted (even if it is returned
              undelivered).

 (6) A document may be served on a person under this Act by email
only with that person’s prior written consent.

 (7) This section does not apply to documents to be served in
proceedings in court.

(8) In this section —

“business address” means —

          (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
               last known place of business in Singapore; or

          (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
               liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
               last known place of business in Singapore;

“document” includes a notice permitted or required by this Act
   to be served;

“last email address” means the last email address given by the
   addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
   document as the email address for the service of documents
   under this Act;

“residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
   place of residence in Singapore.

                                           [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

41  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

Amendment of Schedule

 28. The Minister may, by notification in the Gazette, add to, alter or
amend the Schedule.

Rules

 29.—(1) The Minister may make rules —

       (a) providing for the issue of permits for the import,
            introduction from the sea, export or re-export of
            scheduled species;

                                                                                [Act 21 of 2022 wef 01/11/2022]

       (b) prescribing the form, duration, terms, conditions and
            restrictions of any permit and the fees payable for the
            permit, and providing for the cancellation and suspension
            thereof;

       (c) providing for the imposition of a levy on the import, export
            or re‑export of any scheduled species;

       (d) authorising the sale or possession or control of or other
            dealing in scheduled species and prescribing the
            circumstances and conditions under which a person may
            be in possession or in control of or sell or otherwise deal
            with any scheduled species;

       (e) relating to the branding, packaging, marking either
            permanently or temporarily and labelling of scheduled
            species for the purpose of identification;

        (f) prescribing the fees to be charged in respect of anything
            done under or by virtue of this Act;

       (g) prescribing any other matter or thing required or permitted
            to be prescribed or necessary to be prescribed to give effect
            to this Act.

 (2) Rules made under this Act —

       (a) may provide that a contravention of any provision of the
            rules shall be an offence;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             42

(b) may provide for penalties not exceeding a fine of $50,000
     or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or both
     for each offence.

Saving and transitional provision

 30. Any application for a permit, and any permit, approval, notice,
order or other document, made, issued or given under the repealed
Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act (Cap. 92A,
2000 Revised Edition) is, so far as it is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, deemed to have been made, issued or given
under this Act.

                              THE SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 2(1) and 28

                                 SCHEDULED SPECIES

Interpretation of the Appendices

 1. Appendix I includes all species threatened with extinction which are or may
be affected by trade. Trade in specimens of these species is subject to particularly
strict regulation in order not to endanger further their survival and is only
authorised in exceptional circumstances.

 2. Appendix II includes —

        (a) all species which may become threatened with extinction unless trade
             in specimens of such species is subject to strict regulation in order to
             avoid utilisation incompatible with their survival; and

        (b) other species which are subject to regulation in order that trade in
             specimens of certain species referred to in sub‑paragraph (a) may be
             brought under effective control.

 3. Appendix III includes all species which any contracting State or Party to
CITES (also called in this Schedule the Convention) identifies as being subject to
regulation within its jurisdiction for the purpose of preventing or restricting
exploitation, and as needing the cooperation of other Parties in the control of trade.

 4. In these Appendices, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “Conference of the Parties” means the Conference of the Parties to CITES;

      “Secretariat” means the Secretariat established under Article XII of CITES;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
    Endangered Species

43  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

    THE SCHEDULE — continued

    “Standing Committee” means the Standing Committee of the Conference of
       the Parties established under Annex 1 of Resolution Conf. 11.1
       (Rev. CoP16) adopted by the Conference of the Parties.

5. Species included in these Appendices are referred to —

    (a) by the name of the species; or

    (b) as being all of the species included in a higher taxon or designated part
         thereof.

6. The abbreviation “spp.” is used to denote all species of a higher taxon.

 7. Other references to taxa higher than species are for the purposes of
information or classification only. The common names included after the
scientific names of families are for reference only. They are intended to
indicate the species within the family concerned that are included in the
Appendices. In most cases this is not all of the species within the family.

8. The following abbreviations are used for plant taxa below the level of species:

    (a) “ssp.” is used to denote subspecies; and

    (b) “var(s).” is used to denote variety (varieties).

 9. As none of the species or higher taxa of FLORA included in Appendix I is
annotated to the effect that its hybrids are to be treated in accordance with the
provisions of Article III of the Convention, this means that artificially propagated
hybrids produced from one or more of these species or taxa may be traded with a
certificate of artificial propagation, and that seeds and pollen (including pollinia),
cut flowers, seedling or tissue cultures obtained in vitro, transported in sterile
containers of these hybrids are not subject to the provisions of the Convention.

                                                                                     [S 92/2023 wef 23/02/2023]

 10. The names of the countries in parentheses placed against the names of
species in Appendix III are those of the Parties submitting these species for
inclusion in this Appendix.

 11. When a species is included in one of the Appendices, the whole, live or dead,
animal or plant is included. In addition, for animal species listed in Appendix III
and plant species listed in Appendix II or III, all parts and derivatives of the
species are also included in the same Appendix unless the species is annotated to
indicate that only specific parts and derivatives are included. The symbol #
followed by a number placed against the name of a species or higher taxon
included in Appendix II or III refers to a footnote that indicates the parts or
derivatives of animals or plants that are designated as “specimens” subject to the
provisions of the Convention in accordance with Article I, paragraph (b),
sub‑paragraph (ii) or (iii).

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             44

                             THE SCHEDULE — continued

 12. The terms and expressions below, used in annotations in these Appendices,
are defined as follows:

        (a) Extract

. Any substance obtained directly from plant material by physical or chemical
   means regardless of the manufacturing process. An extract may be solid (e.g.
   crystals, resin, fine or coarse particles), semisolid (e.g. gums, waxes) or liquid
   (e.g. solutions, tinctures, oil and essential oils).

       (b) Finished musical instruments

. A musical instrument (as referenced by the Harmonized System of the World
   Customs Organization, Chapter 92; musical instruments, parts and
   accessories of such articles) that is ready to play or needs only the
   installation of parts to make it playable. This term includes antique
   instruments (as defined by the Harmonized System codes 97.05 and 97.06;
   Works of art, collectors pieces and antiques).

       (c) Finished musical instrument accessories

. A musical instrument accessory (as referenced by the Harmonized System of
   the World Customs Organization, Chapter 92; musical instruments, parts and
   accessories of such articles) that is separate from the musical instrument, and
   is specifically designed or shaped to be used explicitly in association with an
   instrument, and that requires no further modification to be used.

       (d) Finished musical instrument parts

. A part (as referenced by the Harmonized System of the World Customs
   Organization, Chapter 92; musical instruments, parts and accessories of such
   articles) of a musical instrument that is ready to install and is specifically
   designed and shaped to be used explicitly in association with the instrument to
   make it playable.

       (e) Finished products packaged and ready for retail trade

. Products, shipped singly or in bulk, requiring no further processing,
   packaged, labelled for final use or the retail trade in a state fit for being
   sold to or used by the general public.

        (f) Powder
. A dry, solid substance in the form of fine or coarse particles.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
       Endangered Species

45  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

                        THE SCHEDULE — continued
    (g) Shipment

. Cargo transported under the terms of a single bill of lading or air waybill,
   irrespective of the quantity or number of containers, packages, or pieces
   worn, carried or included in personal baggage.

       (h) Ten (10) kg per shipment

. For the term “10 kg per shipment”, the 10 kg limit should be interpreted as
   referring to the weight of wood of each individual annotated species of genus
   Dalbergia or Guibourtia present in the items in the shipment. The 10 kg limit
   is to be assessed only against the individual weights of the portions of wood of
   each individual annotated species contained in each item of the shipment, and
   not against the total weight of the shipment. The total weights present of each
   individual annotated species are considered individually to determine
   whether a CITES permit or certificate is required for each individual
   annotated species, and weights of different individual annotated species are
   not added together for this purpose.

                                                  [S 92/2023 wef 23/02/2023]

    (i) Transformed wood

. Defined by Harmonized System code 44.09: Wood (including strips, friezes
   for parquet flooring, not assembled), continuously shaped (tongued, grooved,
   rebated, chamfered, v-jointed, beaded, moulded, rounded or the like) along
   any of its edges, ends or faces, whether or not planed, sanded or end-jointed.

                                                  [S 92/2023 wef 23/02/2023]

        (j) Wood‑chips
. Wood that has been reduced to small pieces.

..                        .                       .          .

                             Appendices

    I                             II                 III

.                         PART 1                             .

       FAUNA (ANIMALS)

       PHYLUM CHORDATA

       CLASS MAMMALIA
            (MAMMALS)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                            46

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                       .                  .                      .

                                            Appendices

              I                             II                            III

I             ARTIODACTYLA

    A Antilocapridae (Pronghorn)

          1. Antilocapra
                 americana (Only the
                 population of Mexico;
                 no other population is
                 included in the
                 Appendices)

    B Bovidae (Antelopes, cattle, duikers, gazelles, goats, sheep, etc.)

          1. Addax nasomaculatus

          2.                             Ammotragus lervia

          3.                                                Antilope cervicapra

                                                            (Nepal, Pakistan)

          4. Bos gaurus (Excludes
                 the domesticated form,
                 which is referenced as
                 Bos frontalis, and is
                 not subject to the
                 provisions of the
                 Convention)

          5. Bos mutus (Excludes
                 the domesticated form,
                 which is referenced as
                 Bos grunniens, and is
                 not subject to the
                 provisions of the
                 Convention)

          6. Bos sauveli

          7.                                                Boselaphus

                                                            tragocamelus

                                                            (Pakistan)

          8.                                                Bubalus arnee

                                                            (Excludes the

                                                            domesticated form,

                                                            which is referenced

                                                            as Bubalus bubalis

                                                            and is not subject to

                                                            the provisions of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

47       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                            .                          .                       .

                                 Appendices

         I                                 II               III

                                                         Convention)
                                                         (Nepal)

    9. Bubalus
           depressicornis

    10. Bubalus mindorensis

    11. Bubalus quarlesi

    12.                       Budorcas taxicolor

    13.                       Capra caucasica

    14. Capra falconeri

    15.                                                  Capra hircus

                                                         aegagrus

                                                         (Specimens of the

                                                         domesticated form

                                                         are not subject to the

                                                         provisions of the

                                                         Convention)

                                                         (Pakistan)

    16.                                                  Capra sibirica

                                                         (Pakistan)

    17. Capricornis
             milneedwardsii

    18. Capricornis rubidus

    19. Capricornis
             sumatraensis

    20. Capricornis thar

    21.                       Cephalophus brookei

    22.                       Cephalophus dorsalis

    23. Cephalophus jentinki

    24.                       Cephalophus ogilbyi

    25.                       Cephalophus silvicultor

    26.                       Cephalophus zebra

    27.                       [Deleted by S 88/2026 wef

                              05/03/2026]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

2020 Ed.        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                             48

                THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                      .                          .                  .

                                           Appendices

                I                          II                         III

          28.                                                      Gazella bennettii

                                                                   (Pakistan)

          29. Gazella cuvieri

          30.                           Gazella dorcas

          31. Gazella leptoceros

          32. Hippotragus niger
                   variani

          33.                           Kobus leche

          34. Naemorhedus baileyi

          35. Naemorhedus
                   caudatus

          36. Naemorhedus goral

          37. Naemorhedus griseus

          38. Nanger dama

          39. Oryx dammah

          40. Oryx leucoryx

          41.                           Ovis ammon

          42.                           Ovis arabica

          43.                           Ovis bochariensis

          44.                           Ovis canadensis (Only the

                                        population of Mexico; no

                                        other population is

                                        included in the

                                        Appendices)

          45.                           Ovis collium

          46.                           Ovis cycloceros

          47.                           Ovis darwini

          47A.  Ovis gmelini (Only the
                population of Cyprus;
                no other population is
                included in the
                Appendices)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

49        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                 2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                            .                       .                .

                                      Appendices

          I                                II                  III

    47B. Ovis hodgsoni

    47C.                      Ovis jubata

    47D.                      Ovis karelini

    47E. Ovis nigrimontana

    47F.                      Ovis polii

    47G.                      Ovis punjabiensis

    47H.                      Ovis severtzovi

    47I. Ovis vignei

    48. Pantholops hodgsonii

    48A.                      Philantomba maxwelli

    49.                       Philantomba monticola

    50.                                               Pseudois nayaur

                                                      (Pakistan)

    51. Pseudoryx
             nghetinhensis

    52.                       Rupicapra pyrenaica

                              ornata

    53.                       Saiga borealis (A zero

                              export quota for wild

                              specimens traded for

                              commercial purposes)

    54.                       Saiga tatarica (A zero

                              export quota for wild

                              specimens traded for
                              commercial purposes)3

    55.                                               Tetracerus

                                                      quadricornis

                                                      (Nepal)

    C Camelidae (Guanaco, vicuna)

    1.                        Lama guanicoe

    2. Vicugna vicugna
           [Except the
           populations of:

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                    50

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                    .                            .       .

                                         Appendices

              I                          II                           III

              Argentina
              (populations of the
              Provinces of
              Catamarca, Jujuy and
              Salta, and
              semi‑captive
              populations of the
              Provinces of
              Catamarca, Jujuy, La
              Rioja, Salta and San
              Juan), Chile
              (populations of the
              region of Arica and
              Parinacota and of the
              region of Tarapacá),
              Ecuador, Peru and the
              Plurinational State of
              Bolivia, which are
              included in
              Appendix II]

          3.                          Vicugna vicugna [Only

                                      the populations of

                                      Argentina (populations of

                                      the Provinces of

                                      Catamarca, Jujuy and

                                      Salta, and semi‑captive

                                      populations of the

                                      Provinces of Catamarca,

                                      Jujuy, La Rioja, Salta and

                                      San Juan), Chile

                                      (populations of the region

                                      of Arica and Parinacota

                                      and of the region of

                                      Tarapacá), Ecuador, Peru

                                      and the Plurinational State

                                      of Bolivia; all other

                                      populations are included in
                                      Appendix I]1

    D Cervidae (Deer, huemuls, muntjacs, pudus)

          1. Axis calamianensis

          2. Axis kuhlii

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

51       (Import and Export) Act 2006                              2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                            .                    .                    .

                                 Appendices

         I                                II                 III

    3.                                             Axis porcinus

                                                   (Except the

                                                   subspecies included

                                                   in Appendix I)

                                                   (Pakistan)

    4. Axis porcinus
           annamiticus

    5. Blastocerus
           dichotomus

    6.                        Cervus elaphus

                              bactrianus

    7.                                             Cervus elaphus

                                                   barbarus (Algeria,

                                                   Tunisia)

    8. Cervus elaphus
           hanglu

    9. Dama dama
           mesopotamica

    10. Hippocamelus spp.

    11.                                            Mazama temama

                                                   cerasina

                                                   (Guatemala)

    12. Muntiacus crinifrons

    13. Muntiacus
             vuquangensis

    14.                                            Odocoileus

                                                   virginianus

                                                   mayensis

                                                   (Guatemala)

    15. Ozotoceros
             bezoarticus

    16.                       Pudu mephistophiles

    17. Pudu puda

    18. Rucervus duvaucelii

    19. Rucervus eldii

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                     52

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                        .                         .       .

                                             Appendices

              I                              II                        III

    D(1) Giraffidae (Giraffe)

          1.                              Giraffa camelopardalis

          2. Okapia johnstoni

    E Hippopotamidae (Hippopotamuses)

          1.                              Hexaprotodon liberiensis

          2.                              Hippopotamus amphibius

    F Moschidae (Musk deer)

          1. Moschus spp. (Only
                 the populations of
                 Afghanistan, Bhutan,
                 India, Myanmar,
                 Nepal and Pakistan; all
                 other populations are
                 included in
                 Appendix II)

          2.                              Moschus spp. (Except the

                                          populations of

                                          Afghanistan, Bhutan,

                                          India, Myanmar, Nepal

                                          and Pakistan, which are

                                          included in Appendix I)

    G Suidae (Babirusa, hog)

          1. Babyrousa babyrussa

          2. Babyrousa
                 bolabatuensis

          3. Babyrousa celebensis

          4. Babyrousa
                 togeanensis

          5. Sus salvanius

    H Tayassuidae (Peccaries)

          1.                              Tayassuidae spp. (Except

                                          the species included in

                                          Appendix I and the

                                          populations of Pecari

                                          tajacu of Mexico and the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

53          (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                      .                           .             .

                                           Appendices

            I                                        II                      III

                                        United States of America,
                                        which are not included in
                                        the Appendices)

        2. Catagonus wagneri

    II      CARNIVORA

        A Ailuridae (Red panda)

        1. Ailurus fulgens

        B Canidae (Wild dogs, foxes, wolves)

        1.                                                          Canis aureus

                                                                    (India)

        2. Canis lupus
               (Only the populations
               of Bhutan, India,
               Nepal and Pakistan; all
               other populations are
               included in
               Appendix II. Excludes
               the domesticated form
               and the dingo which
               are referenced as
               Canis lupus familiaris
               and Canis lupus dingo,
               respectively, which are
               not subject to the
               provisions of the
               Convention)

        3.                              Canis lupus

                                        (Except the populations of

                                        Bhutan, India, Nepal and

                                        Pakistan, which are

                                        included in Appendix I.

                                        Excludes the domesticated

                                        form and the dingo which

                                        are referenced as Canis

                                        lupus familiaris and Canis

                                        lupus dingo, respectively,

                                        which are not subject to

                                        the provisions of the

                                        Convention)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          54

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                           .                   .

                                     Appendices

               I                     II                                III

          4.                      Cerdocyon thous

          5.                      Chrysocyon brachyurus

          6.                      Cuon alpinus

          7.                      Lycalopex culpaeus

          8.                      Lycalopex fulvipes

          9.                      Lycalopex griseus

          10.                     Lycalopex gymnocercus

          11. Speothos venaticus

          12.                                                 Vulpes bengalensis

                                                              (India)

          13.                     Vulpes cana

          14.                                                 Vulpes vulpes

                                                              griffithi (India)

          15.                                                 Vulpes vulpes

                                                              montana (India)

          16.                                                 Vulpes vulpes

                                                              pusilla (India)

          17.                     Vulpes zerda

    C Eupleridae (Fossa, falanouc, Malagasy civet)

          1.                      Cryptoprocta ferox

          2.                      Eupleres goudotii

          3.                      Fossa fossana

    D Felidae (Cats)

          1.                      Felidae spp. [Except the

                                  species included in

                                  Appendix I. Specimens of

                                  the domesticated form are

                                  not subject to the

                                  provisions of the

                                  Convention. For Panthera

                                  leo (African populations):

                                  a zero annual export quota

                                  is established for

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Endangered Species

55  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                              2020 Ed.
                                                                                  .
    THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                                    III
..                                  .                            .

                                       Appendices

    I                                  II

                                    specimens of bones, bone
                                    pieces, bone products,
                                    claws, skeletons, skulls
                                    and teeth removed from
                                    the wild and traded for
                                    commercial purposes.
                                    Annual export quotas for
                                    trade in bones, bone
                                    pieces, bone products,
                                    claws, skeletons, skulls
                                    and teeth for commercial
                                    purposes, derived from
                                    captive breeding
                                    operations in South Africa,
                                    will be established and
                                    communicated annually to
                                    the CITES Secretariat.]

    2. Acinonyx jubatus
           (Annual export quotas
           for live specimens and
           hunting trophies are
           granted as follows:
           Botswana: 5;
           Namibia: 150;
           Zimbabwe: 50. The
           trade in such
           specimens is subject to
           the provisions of
           Article III of the
           Convention)

    3. Caracal caracal (Only
           the population of Asia;
           all other populations
           are included in
           Appendix II)

    4. Catopuma temminckii

    5. Felis nigripes

    5A. Herpailurus
              yagouaroundi (Only
              the populations of
              Central and North
              America; all other

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                56

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                          .              .       .

                                               Appendices

          I                                    II             III

          populations are
          included in
          Appendix II)

          6. Leopardus geoffroyi

          6A. Leopardus guttulus

          7. Leopardus jacobita

          8. Leopardus pardalis

          9. Leopardus tigrinus

          10. Leopardus wiedii

          11. Lynx pardinus

          11A. Neofelis diardi

          12. Neofelis nebulosa

          13. Panthera leo (Only
                   the populations of
                   India; all other
                   populations are
                   included in
                   Appendix II)

          14. Panthera onca

          15. Panthera pardus

          16. Panthera tigris

          16A. Panthera uncia

          17. Pardofelis marmorata

          18. Prionailurus
                   bengalensis
                   bengalensis
                   (Only the populations
                   of Bangladesh, India
                   and Thailand; all other
                   populations are
                   included in
                   Appendix II)

          19. Prionailurus
                   planiceps

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
        Endangered Species

57      (Import and Export) Act 2006                          2020 Ed.

        THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                     .              .                      .

                            I             Appendices     III
                                                II
       20. Prionailurus
                 rubiginosus                          Herpestes edwardsi
                 (Only the population                 (India, Pakistan)
                 of India; all other
                 populations are                      Herpestes fuscus
                 included in                          (India)
                 Appendix II)
                                                      Herpestes
       21. Puma concolor (Only                        javanicus
                 the populations of                   (Pakistan)
                 Costa Rica and
                 Panama; all other                    Herpestes
                 populations are                      javanicus
                 included in                          auropunctatus
                 Appendix II)                         (India)

       22. [Deleted by                                Herpestes smithii
                 S 777/2019]                          (India)

       23. [Deleted by                                Herpestes urva
                 S 761/2023                           (India)
                 wef 25/11/2023&#93;
                                                      Herpestes vitticollis
    E Herpestidae (Mongooses)                         (India)

         1.

         2.

         3.

    4.

         5.
         6.
         7.
    F Hyaenidae (Aardwolf, hyena)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                   Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                               58

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                      .                          .                  .

                                           Appendices

              I                                      II                III

          1.                            Hyaena hyaena

          2.                                                       Proteles cristata

                                                                   (Botswana)

    G Mephitidae (Humboldt’s hog‑nosed skunk)

          1.                            Conepatus humboldtii

    H Mustelidae (Badgers, martens, otters, weasels, etc.)

    H(1) Lutrinae (Otters)

          1.                            Lutrinae spp. (Except the

                                        species included in

                                        Appendix I)

          2. Aonyx capensis
                 microdon
                 (Only the populations
                 of Cameroon and
                 Nigeria; all other
                 populations are
                 included in
                 Appendix II)

          2A. Aonyx cinereus

          3. Enhydra lutris nereis

          4. Lontra felina

          5. Lontra longicaudis

          6. Lontra provocax

          7. Lutra lutra

          8. Lutra nippon

          8A. Lutrogale
                    perspicillata

          9. Pteronura brasiliensis

    H(2) Mustelinae (Grisons, honey badgers, martens, tayra, weasels)

          1.                                                       Eira barbara

                                                                   (Honduras)

          2. [Deleted by
                 S 777/2019]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

59         (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      2020 Ed.

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                     .                   .                   .

                                            Appendices

           I                                II                       III

       3.                                                  Martes flavigula
                                                           (India)
       4.
                                                           Martes foina
       5.                                                  intermedia
                                                           (India)
       6.
                                                           Martes gwatkinsii
       7.                                                  (India)

       8.                                                  Mellivora capensis
                                                           (Botswana)
       9.
                                                           Mustela altaica
                                                           (India)

                                                           Mustela erminea
                                                           ferghanae (India)

                                                           Mustela kathiah
                                                           (India)

       10. Mustela nigripes                                Mustela sibirica
       11.                                                 (India)

    I Odobenidae (Walrus)                                  Odobenus
                                                           rosmarus (Canada)
        1.

    J      Otariidae (Fur seals, sealions)

       1.                              Arctocephalus spp.

       2. [Deleted by S 88/2026
              wef 05/03/2026]

    K Phocidae (Seals)

       1.                              Mirounga leonina

       2. Monachus spp.

       3. Neomonachus spp.
              (Except Neomonachus
              tropicalis which is not
              included in the
              Appendices)

    L Procyonidae (Coatis, kinkajou)

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                              Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                                60

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                      .                         .                    .

                                           Appendices

              I                                      II                    III

          1. [Deleted by
                 S 777/2019]

          2. [Deleted by
                 S 777/2019]

          3.                                                      Nasua narica

                                                                  (Honduras)

          4.                                                      Nasua nasua

                                                                  solitaria (Uruguay)

          5.                                                      Potos flavus

                                                                  (Honduras)

    M Ursidae (Bears, giant pandas)

          1.                            Ursidae spp. (Except the

                                        species included in

                                        Appendix I)

          2. Ailuropoda
                 melanoleuca

          3. Helarctos malayanus

          4. Melursus ursinus

          5. Tremarctos ornatus

          6. Ursus arctos
                 (Only the populations
                 of Bhutan, China,
                 Mexico and Mongolia;
                 all other populations
                 are included in
                 Appendix II)

          7. Ursus arctos
                 isabellinus

          8. Ursus thibetanus

    N Viverridae (Binturong, civets, linsangs, otter‑civet, palm civets)

          1.                                                      Arctictis binturong

                                                                  (India)

          2.                                                      Civettictis civetta

                                                                  (Botswana)

          3.                            Cynogale bennettii

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

61            (Import and Export) Act 2006                                             2020 Ed.

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                      .                           .                   .

                                           Appendices

              I                                    II                        III

         4.                             Hemigalus derbyanus

         5.                                                         Paguma larvata

                                                                    (India)

         6.                                                         Paradoxurus

                                                                    hermaphroditus

                                                                    (India)

         7.                                                         Paradoxurus

                                                                    jerdoni (India)

         8.                             Prionodon linsang

         9. Prionodon pardicolor

         10.                                                        Viverra civettina

                                                                    (India)

         11.                                                        Viverra zibetha

                                                                    (India)

         12.                                                        Viverricula indica

                                                                    (India)

    III       CETACEA (Dolphins, porpoises, whales)

         1.                             CETACEA spp. (Except

                                        the species included in

                                        Appendix I. For Tursiops

                                        truncatus (Black Sea

                                        Population): a zero annual

                                        export quota has been

                                        established for live

                                        specimens removed from

                                        the wild and traded for

                                        primarily commercial

                                        purposes)

         A Balaenidae (Bowhead whale, right whales)

         1. Balaena mysticetus

         2. Eubalaena spp.

         B Balaenopteridae (Fin whales, humpback whales, rorquals)

         1. Balaenoptera
                acutorostrata (Except
                the population of West
                Greenland, which is

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                62

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                 .            .

                                       Appendices

          I                              II              III

          included in
          Appendix II)

          2. Balaenoptera
                 bonaerensis

          3. Balaenoptera borealis

          4. Balaenoptera edeni

          5. Balaenoptera
                 musculus

          6. Balaenoptera omurai

          7. Balaenoptera
                 physalus

          8. Megaptera
                 novaeangliae

    C Delphinidae (Dolphins)

          1. Orcaella brevirostris

          2. Orcaella heinsohni

          3. Sotalia spp.

          4. Sousa spp.

    D Eschrichtiidae (Grey whale)

          1. Eschrichtius robustus

    E Iniidae (River dolphin)

          1. Lipotes vexillifer

    F Neobalaenidae (Pygmy right whale)

          1. Caperea marginata

    G Phocoenidae (Porpoises)

          1. Neophocaena
                 asiaeorientalis

          2. Neophocaena
                 phocaenoides

          3. Phocoena sinus

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                 Endangered Species

63             (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                          .                   .

                                               Appendices

               I                                   II             III

        H Physeteridae (Sperm whale)

           1. Physeter
                  macrocephalus

        I      Platanistidae (River dolphins)

           1. Platanista spp.

        J      Ziphiidae (Beaked whales, bottle‑nosed whales)

           1. Berardius spp.

           2. Hyperoodon spp.

    IV         CHIROPTERA

        A Phyllostomidae (White‑lined broad‑nosed bat)

           1.                                                  Platyrrhinus

                                                               lineatus (Uruguay)

        B Pteropodidae (Fruit bats, flying foxes)

           1.                       Acerodon spp. (Except the

                                    species included in

                                    Appendix I)

           2. Acerodon jubatus

           3.                       Pteropus spp. (Except the

                                    species included in

                                    Appendix I and Pteropus

                                    brunneus which is not

                                    included in the

                                    Appendices)

           4. Pteropus insularis

           5. Pteropus loochoensis

           6. Pteropus mariannus

           7. Pteropus molossinus

           8. Pteropus pelewensis

           9. Pteropus pilosus

           10. Pteropus samoensis

           11. Pteropus tonganus

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                             64

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                            .                  .

                                       Appendices

              I                             II                      III

          12. Pteropus ualanus

          13. Pteropus yapensis

V             CINGULATA

     A Dasypodidae (Armadillos)

          1. [Deleted by
                 S 777/2019]

          2.                                                     Cabassous tatouay

                                                                 (Uruguay)

          3.                        Chaetophractus nationi

                                    (A zero annual export

                                    quota has been established.

                                    All specimens shall be

                                    deemed to be specimens of

                                    species included in

                                    Appendix I and the trade in

                                    them shall be regulated

                                    accordingly)

          4. Priodontes maximus

VI            DASYUROMORPHIA

     A Dasyuridae (Dunnarts)

          1. Sminthopsis
                 longicaudata

          2. Sminthopsis
                 psammophila

VII           DIPROTODONTIA

     A Macropodidae (Kangaroos, wallabies)

          1.                        Dendrolagus inustus

          2.                        Dendrolagus ursinus

          3. Lagorchestes hirsutus

          4. Lagostrophus
                 fasciatus

          5. Onychogalea
                 fraenata

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

65            (Import and Export) Act 2006                              2020 Ed.
                                                                            .
              THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                              III
..                                  .                      .

                                       Appendices

              I                                 II

        B Phalangeridae (Cuscuses)

          1.                        Phalanger

                                    intercastellanus

          2.                        Phalanger mimicus

          3.                        Phalanger orientalis

          4.                        Spilocuscus kraemeri

          5.                        Spilocuscus maculatus

          6.                        Spilocuscus papuensis

        C Potoroidae (Rat‑kangaroos)

          1. Bettongia spp.

        D Vombatidae (Northern hairy‑nosed wombat)

          1. Lasiorhinus krefftii

    VIII      LAGOMORPHA

        A Leporidae (Rabbits)

          1. Caprolagus hispidus

          2. Romerolagus diazi

    IX        MONOTREMATA

        A Tachyglossidae (Echidnas)

          1.                        Zaglossus spp.

    X         PERAMELEMORPHIA

        A Peramelidae (Barred bandicoot)

          1. Perameles
                 bougainville

        B Thylacomyidae (Bilby)

          1. Macrotis lagotis

    XI        PERISSODACTYLA

        A Equidae (Horses, wild asses, zebras)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      66

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                       .                           .       .

                                            Appendices

              I                                       II                III

          1. Equus africanus
                 (Excludes the
                 domesticated form,
                 which is referenced as
                 Equus asinus, and is
                 not subject to the
                 provisions of the
                 Convention)

          2. Equus grevyi

          3.                             Equus hemionus (Except

                                         the subspecies included in

                                         Appendix I)

          4. Equus hemionus
                 hemionus

          5. Equus hemionus
                 khur

          5A. Equus hemionus
                    luteus

          6.                             Equus kiang

          7. Equus przewalskii

          8.                             Equus zebra hartmannae

          9.                             Equus zebra zebra

    B Rhinocerotidae (Rhinoceroses)

          1. Rhinocerotidae spp.
                 (Except the subspecies
                 included in
                 Appendix II)

          2.                             Ceratotherium simum

                                         simum (Only the

                                         populations of Eswatini,

                                         Namibia and South Africa;

                                         all other populations are

                                         included in Appendix I.

                                         The populations of

                                         Eswatini and South Africa

                                         of Ceratotherium simum

                                         simum are included in

                                         Appendix II for the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

67           (Import and Export) Act 2006                                        2020 Ed.
                                                                                     .
             THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                                       III
..                                   .                              .

                                        Appendices

             I                                   II

                                     exclusive purpose of
                                     allowing international
                                     trade in live animals to
                                     appropriate and acceptable
                                     destinations and hunting
                                     trophies. The population of
                                     Namibia of Ceratotherium
                                     simum simum is included
                                     in Appendix II for the
                                     exclusive purpose of
                                     allowing international
                                     trade in live animals for in-
                                     situ conservation only, and
                                     only within the natural and
                                     historical range of
                                     Ceratotherium simum in
                                     Africa. All other
                                     specimens shall be deemed
                                     to be specimens of species
                                     included in Appendix I and
                                     the trade in them shall be
                                     regulated accordingly)

         C Tapiridae (Tapirs)

         1. Tapiridae spp.
                (Except the species
                included in
                Appendix II)

         2.                          Tapirus terrestris

    XII      PHOLIDOTA

         A Manidae (Pangolins)

         1.                          Manis spp.

                                     (Except the species

                                     included in Appendix I)

         2. Manis crassicaudata

         3. Manis culionensis

         4. Manis gigantea

         5. Manis javanica

         6. Manis pentadactyla

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                 Endangered Species

2020 Ed.              (Import and Export) Act 2006                        68

                      THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                               .                        .            .

                                         Appendices

                      I                       II             III

          7. Manis temminckii

          8. Manis tetradactyla

          9. Manis tricuspis

XIII          PILOSA

     A Bradypodidae (Three‑toed sloths)

          1.                     Bradypus pygmaeus

          2.                     Bradypus variegatus

     B Megalonychidae

          1.                     Choloepus didactylus

          2.                     Choloepus hoffmanni

     C Myrmecophagidae (Giant anteater, tamandua)

          1.                     Myrmecophaga tridactyla

          2.                                              Tamandua

                                                          mexicana

                                                          (Guatemala)

XIV           PRIMATES (Apes, monkeys)

          1.                     PRIMATES spp. (Except

                                 the species included in

                                 Appendix I)

     A Atelidae (Howler monkeys, spider monkeys)

          1. [Deleted by
                 S 761/2023 wef
                 25/11/2023]

          2. Alouatta palliata

          3. Alouatta pigra

          4. Ateles geoffroyi
                 frontatus

          5. Ateles geoffroyi
                 ornatus

          6. Brachyteles
                 arachnoides

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

69  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                     2020 Ed.
                                                                         .
    THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                           III
..                           .                          .

                                Appendices

    I                                      II

    7. Brachyteles
           hypoxanthus

    8. Oreonax flavicauda

    B Cebidae (Marmosets, tamarins, new‑world monkeys)

    1. Callimico goeldii

    2. Callithrix aurita

    3. Callithrix flaviceps

    4. Leontopithecus spp.

    5. Saguinus bicolor

    6. Saguinus geoffroyi

    7. Saguinus leucopus

    8. Saguinus martinsi

    9. Saguinus oedipus

    10. Saimiri oerstedii

    C Cercopithecidae (Old‑world monkeys)

    1A. Cercocebus
              chrysogaster

    1. Cercocebus galeritus

    2. Cercopithecus diana

    3. Cercopithecus
           roloway

    4. Macaca silenus

    5. Macaca sylvanus

    6. Mandrillus
           leucophaeus

    7. Mandrillus sphinx

    8. Nasalis larvatus

    9. Piliocolobus kirkii

    10. Piliocolobus
             rufomitratus

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                Endangered Species

2020 Ed.               (Import and Export) Act 2006                    70

                       THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                       .       .

                                       Appendices

                       I               II                      III

          11. Presbytis potenziani

          12. Pygathrix spp.

          13. Rhinopithecus spp.

          14. Semnopithecus ajax

          15. Semnopithecus
                   dussumieri

          16. Semnopithecus
                   entellus

          17. Semnopithecus hector

          18. Semnopithecus
                   hypoleucos

          19. Semnopithecus priam

          20. Semnopithecus
                   schistaceus

          21. Simias concolor

          22. Trachypithecus geei

          23. Trachypithecus
                   pileatus

          24. Trachypithecus
                   shortridgei

    D Cheirogaleidae (Dwarf lemurs)

          1. Cheirogaleidae spp.

    E Daubentoniidae (Aye‑aye)

          1. Daubentonia
                 madagascariensis

    F Hominidae (Apes, chimpanzees, gorillas, orang‑utans)

          1. Gorilla beringei

          2. Gorilla gorilla

          3. Pan spp.

          4. Pongo abelii

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

71             (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      2020 Ed.
                                                                                     .
               THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                                       III
..                                        .                         .

                                                Appendices

               I                                II

           5. Pongo pygmaeus

           6. Pongo tapanuliensis

        G Hylobatidae (Gibbons)

           1. Hylobatidae spp.

        H Indriidae (Indris, sifakas, woolly lemurs)

           1. Indriidae spp.

        I      Lemuridae (Large lemurs)

           1. Lemuridae spp.

        J      Lepilemuridae (Sportive lemurs)

           1. Lepilemuridae spp.

        K Lorisidae (Lorises)

           1. Nycticebus spp.

        L Pitheciidae (Sakis, uakaris)

           1. Cacajao spp.

           2. Chiropotes albinasus

    XV         PROBOSCIDEA

        A Elephantidae (Elephants)

           1. Elephas maximus

           2. Loxodonta africana
                  (Except the
                  populations of
                  Botswana, Namibia,
                  South Africa and
                  Zimbabwe, which are
                  included in
                  Appendix II subject to
                  annotation 2)

           3.                             Loxodonta africana2

                                          (Only the populations of

                                          Botswana, Namibia, South

                                          Africa and Zimbabwe; all

                                          other populations are

                                          included in Appendix I)

           Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                        Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                           72

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                      .                     .                   .

              I                            Appendices            III
                                                 II

XVI           RODENTIA

     A Chinchillidae (Chinchillas)

          1. Chinchilla spp.
                 (Specimens of the
                 domesticated form are
                 not subject to the
                 provisions of the
                 Convention)

     B Cuniculidae (Pacas)

          1.                                                  Cuniculus paca
                                                              (Honduras)
     C Dasyproctidae (Agoutis)
          1.                                                  Dasyprocta
                                                              punctata
     D Erethizontidae (New‑world porcupines)                  (Honduras)
          1.
                                                              Sphiggurus
          2.                                                  mexicanus
                                                              (Honduras)
                                                              Sphiggurus
                                                              spinosus (Uruguay)

     E Muridae (Mice, rats)

          1.                            Leporillus conditor

          2.                            Pseudomys fieldi

          3.                            Xeromys myoides

          4.                            Zyzomys pedunculatus

     F Sciuridae (Ground squirrels, tree squirrels)

          1.                            Cynomys mexicanus

          2.                                                  Marmota caudata
                                                              (India)
          3.
                                                              Marmota
                                                              himalayana (India)

          4.                            Ratufa spp.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

73                 (Import and Export) Act 2006                    2020 Ed.

                   THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                 .                                                            .

                                        Appendices

                   I                    II             III

          5. [Deleted by
                 S 777/2019]

    XVII      SCANDENTIA (Tree shrews)

          1.                      SCANDENTIA spp.

    XVIII SIRENIA

    A Dugongidae (Dugong)

          1. Dugong dugon

    B Trichechidae (Manatees)

          1. Trichechus inunguis

          2. Trichechus manatus

          3. Trichechus
                 senegalensis

    Notes:

          1 For the exclusive purpose of allowing international trade in fibre from vicuñas (Vicugna
             vicugna) and their derivative products, only if the fibre comes from the shearing of live
             vicuñas. Trade in products derived from the fibre may only take place in accordance with the
             following provisions:

                         (a) Any person or entity processing vicuña fibre to manufacture cloth and garments
                              must request authorisation from the relevant authorities of the country of origin
                              (Countries of origin: The countries where the species occurs, that is, Argentina,
                              Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Peru) to use the “vicuñas country of origin”
                              wording, mark or logo adopted by the range States of the species that are
                              signatories to the Convention for the Conservation and Management of the
                              Vicuña.

              (b) Marketed cloth or garments must be marked or identified in accordance with the
                   following provisions:

                          (i) For international trade in cloth made from live‑sheared vicuña fibre,
                              whether the cloth was produced within or outside the range States of
                              the species, the wording, mark or logo must be used so that the
                              country of origin can be identified. The VICUÑA
                              [COUNTRY OF ORIGIN] wording, mark or logo has the format as
                              detailed below:

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                                                     74
..
          THE SCHEDULE — continued

             .                          .                                                               .

                Appendices

          I     II                         III

                               This wording, mark or logo must appear on the reverse side of the
                               cloth. In addition, the selvages of the cloth must bear the words
                               VICUÑAS [COUNTRY OF ORIGIN].
                         (ii) For international trade in garments made from live‑sheared vicuña
                               fibre, whether the garments were produced within or outside of the
                               range States of the species, the wording, mark or logo indicated in
                               paragraph (b)(i) must be used. This wording, mark or logo must
                               appear on a label on the garment itself. If the garments are produced
                               outside of the country of origin, the name of the country where the
                               garment was produced should also be indicated, in addition to the
                               wording, mark or logo referred to in paragraph (b)(i).
              (c) For international trade in handicraft products made from live‑sheared vicuña
                   fibre produced within the range States of the species, the VICUÑA
                   [COUNTRY OF ORIGIN] ARTESANÍA wording, mark or logo must be
                   used as detailed below:

                         (d) If live‑sheared vicuña fibre from various countries of origin is used for
                               the production of cloth and garments, the wording, mark or logo of
                               each of the countries of origin of the fibre must be indicated, as
                               detailed in paragraphs (b)(i) and (ii).

                          (e) All other specimens shall be deemed to be specimens of species listed
                               in Appendix I and the trade in them shall be regulated accordingly.

2 Populations of Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe (listed in Appendix II):
  For the exclusive purpose of allowing:
              (a) trade in hunting trophies for non-commercial purposes;
              (b) trade in live animals to appropriate and acceptable destinations;
              (c) trade in hides;
              (d) trade in hair;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          Endangered Species

75         (Import and Export) Act 2006                         2020 Ed.

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                  .                                                  .

                                   Appendices

           I                                   II     III

           (e) trade in leather goods;

           (f) trade in individually marked and certified ekipas incorporated in finished
               jewellery for non-commercial purposes for Namibia and ivory carvings for
               non‑commercial purposes for Zimbabwe.

       The Standing Committee can decide to cause this trade to cease partially or completely in the
       event of non-compliance by exporting or importing countries, or in the case of proven
       detrimental impacts of the trade on other elephant populations.

         All other specimens shall be deemed to be specimens of species included in Appendix I and
         the trade in them shall be regulated accordingly.

       3 A zero export quota for wild specimens traded for commercial purposes, except for specimens
         from the population of Saiga tatarica of Kazakhstan under the following conditions:

           (a) Trade in only government owned whole horns, originating in Kazakhstan,
                stockpiled and marked in accordance with marking and traceability
                requirements developed by Kazakhstan;

           (b) Prior verification by the Secretariat and Kazakhstan, in consultation with the
                Standing Committee through its Chair, that sufficient control mechanisms and
                traceability systems are already in place in Kazakhstan and trade partners;

           (c) Kazakhstan supervises the first shipment to each new trading partner to ensure
                the marking and traceability systems are in place and working adequately; and

           (d) Limited to a total amount of 30 tons until CoP21 to be reviewed in order to
                determine a potential for further trade based on a revised proposal.

       On a proposal from the Secretariat, the Standing Committee can decide to cause this trade to
       cease partially or completely in the event of non-compliance by exporting or importing
       countries, or in the case of proven detrimental impacts of the trade on the saiga population.

                                   CLASS AVES
                                      (BIRDS)

    I      ANSERIFORMES

       A Anatidae (Ducks, geese, swans, etc.)

       1. Anas aucklandica

       2.                       Anas bernieri

       3. Anas chlorotis

       4.                       Anas formosa

       5. Anas laysanensis

       6. Anas nesiotis

       7. Asarcornis scutulata

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                   Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          76

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                         .                    .

                                      Appendices

               I                                II              III

          8.                       Branta canadensis

                                   leucopareia

          9.                       Branta ruficollis

          10. Branta sandvicensis

          11.                      Coscoroba coscoroba

          12.                      Cygnus melancoryphus

          13.                      Dendrocygna arborea

          14.                                                Dendrocygna

                                                             autumnalis

                                                             (Honduras)

          15.                                                Dendrocygna

                                                             bicolor (Honduras)

          16.                      Oxyura leucocephala

          17. Rhodonessa
                   caryophyllacea

          18.                      Sarkidiornis melanotos

II             APODIFORMES

     A Trochilidae (Hummingbirds)

          1.                       Trochilidae spp. (Except

                                   the species included in

                                   Appendix I)

          2. Glaucis dohrnii

III            CHARADRIIFORMES

     A Burhinidae (Thick‑knee)

          1.                                                 Burhinus bistriatus

                                                             (Guatemala)

     B Laridae (Relict gull)

          1. Larus relictus

     C Scolopacidae (Curlews, greenshanks)

          1. Numenius borealis

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

77          (Import and Export) Act 2006                            2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                      .                .

                                        Appendices

            I                                     II      III

        2. Numenius
               tenuirostris

        3. Tringa guttifer

    IV      CICONIIFORMES

        A Balaenicipitidae (Shoebill)

        1.                      Balaeniceps rex

        B Ciconiidae (Storks)

        1. Ciconia boyciana

        2.                      Ciconia nigra

        3. Jabiru mycteria

        4. Mycteria cinerea

        C Phoenicopteridae (Flamingos)

        1.                      Phoenicopteridae spp.

        D Threskiornithidae (Ibises, spoonbills)

        1.                      Eudocimus ruber

        2.                      Geronticus calvus

        3. Geronticus eremita

        4. Nipponia nippon

        5.                      Platalea leucorodia

    V       COLUMBIFORMES

        A Columbidae (Doves, pigeons)

        1. Caloenas nicobarica

        2. Ducula mindorensis

        3.                      Gallicolumba luzonica

        4.                      Goura spp.

        5.                                             Nesoenas mayeri

                                                       (Mauritius)

    VI      CORACIIFORMES

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                 78

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                              .       .

                                     Appendices

               I                               II                   III

     A Bucerotidae (Hornbills)

          1.                      Aceros spp.

                                  (Except the species

                                  included in Appendix I)

          2. Aceros nipalensis

          3.                      Anorrhinus spp.

          4.                      Anthracoceros spp.

          5.                      Berenicornis spp.

          6.                      Buceros spp. (Except the

                                  species included in

                                  Appendix I)

          7. Buceros bicornis

          7A.                     Bycanistes spp.

          7B.                     Ceratogymna spp.

          8.                      Penelopides spp.

          9. Rhinoplax vigil

          10.                     Rhyticeros spp.

                                  (Except the species

                                  included in Appendix I)

          11. Rhyticeros
                   subruficollis

VII            CUCULIFORMES

     A Musophagidae (Turacos)

          1.                      Tauraco spp.

VIII           FALCONIFORMES (Eagles, falcons, hawks, vultures)

          1.                      FALCONIFORMES

                                  spp. (Except the species

                                  included in Appendices I

                                  and III and Caracara

                                  lutosa, Cathartes aura,

                                  Cathartes burrovianus,

                                  Cathartes melambrotus

                                  and Coragyps atratus,

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

79      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          2020 Ed.

        THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                          .                .

                                        Appendices

        I                               II                      III

                                  which are not included in
                                  the Appendices)

    A Accipitridae (Hawks, eagles)

    1. Aquila adalberti

    2. Aquila heliaca

    3. Chondrohierax
           wilsonii

    3A. Gyps africanus

    3B. Gyps rueppelli

    4. Haliaeetus albicilla

    5. Harpia harpyja

    6. Pithecophaga jefferyi

    B Cathartidae (New‑world vultures)

    1. Gymnogyps
           californianus

    2.                                                       Sarcoramphus

                                                             papa (Honduras)

    3. Vultur gryphus

    C Falconidae (Falcons)

    1. Falco araeus

    2. Falco jugger

    3. Falco newtoni (Only
           the population of
           Seychelles; all other
           populations are
           included in Appendix
           II)

    4, [Deleted by
           S 761/2023
           wef 25/11/2023]

    5. Falco peregrinus

    6. Falco punctatus

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                           80

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .              .                                .

                                      Appendices

               I                      II             III

          7. Falco rusticolus

IX             GALLIFORMES

    A Cracidae (Chachalacas, currassows, guans)

          1.                                      Crax alberti

                                                  (Colombia)

          2. Crax blumenbachii

          3.                                      Crax daubentoni

                                                  (Colombia)

          4.                                      Crax globulosa

                                                  (Colombia)

          5.                                      Crax rubra

                                                  (Colombia,

                                                  Guatemala,

                                                  Honduras)

          6. Mitu mitu

          7. Oreophasis derbianus

          8.                                      Ortalis vetula

                                                  (Guatemala,

                                                  Honduras)

          9.                                      Pauxi pauxi

                                                  (Colombia)

          10. Penelope albipennis

          11.                                     Penelope

                                                  purpurascens

                                                  (Honduras)

          12.                                     Penelopina nigra

                                                  (Guatemala)

          13. Pipile jacutinga

          14. Pipile pipile

    B Megapodiidae (Maleo fowl)

          1. Macrocephalon
                 maleo

    C Phasianidae (Grouse, guineafowl, partridges, peafowl, pheasants, tragopans)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

81       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                 2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                            .                       .                   .

                                 Appendices

         I                       II                      III

    1.                        Argusianus argus

    2. Catreus wallichii

    3. Colinus virginianus
           ridgwayi

    4. Crossoptilon
           crossoptilon

    5. Crossoptilon
           mantchuricum

    6.                        Gallus sonneratii

    7.                        Ithaginis cruentus

    8. Lophophorus
           impejanus

    9. Lophophorus lhuysii

    10. Lophophorus sclateri

    11. Lophura edwardsi

    12.                                               Lophura

                                                      leucomelanos

                                                      (Pakistan)

    13. Lophura swinhoii

    14.                                               Meleagris ocellata

                                                      (Guatemala)

    15.                                               Pavo cristatus

                                                      (Pakistan)

    16.                       Pavo muticus

    17.                       Polyplectron

                              bicalcaratum

    18.                       Polyplectron germaini

    19.                       Polyplectron malacense

    20. Polyplectron
             napoleonis

    21.                       Polyplectron

                              schleiermacheri

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                              Endangered Species

2020 Ed.        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      82

                THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                         .                .

                                       Appendices

                I                                II                    III

          22.                                                 Pucrasia

                                                              macrolopha

                                                              (Pakistan)

          23. Rheinardia ocellata

          24. Syrmaticus ellioti

          25. Syrmaticus humiae

          26. Syrmaticus mikado

          26A.                      Syrmaticus reevesii

          27. Tetraogallus caspius

          28. Tetraogallus
                   tibetanus

          29. Tragopan blythii

          30. Tragopan caboti

          31. Tragopan
                   melanocephalus

          32.                                                 Tragopan satyra

                                                              (Nepal)

          33.                       Tympanuchus cupido

                                    attwateri

X               GRUIFORMES

    A Gruidae (Cranes)

          1.                        Gruidae spp. (Except the

                                    species included in

                                    Appendix I)

          1A. Balearica pavonina

          2. Grus americana

          3. Antigone canadensis
                 nesiotes

          4. Antigone canadensis
                 pulla

          5. Grus japonensis

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

83          (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                               .                          .                   .

                                     Appendices

            I                                 II               III

        6. Leucogeranus
               leucogeranus

        7. Grus monacha

        8. Grus nigricollis

        9. Antigone vipio

        B Otididae (Bustards)

        1.                       Otididae spp. (Except the

                                 species included in

                                 Appendix I)

        2. Ardeotis nigriceps

        3. Chlamydotis
               macqueenii

        4. Chlamydotis undulata

        5. Houbaropsis
               bengalensis

        C Rallidae (Lord Howe rail)

        1. Hypotaenidia
               sylvestris

        D Rhynochetidae (Kagu)

        1. Rhynochetos jubatus

    XI      PASSERIFORMES

        A Alaudidae (Larks)

        1.                                                  Alauda arvensis

                                                            (Population of

                                                            Ukraine) (Ukraine)

        2.                                                  Galerida cristata

                                                            (Population of

                                                            Ukraine) (Ukraine)

        3.                                                  Lullula arborea

                                                            (Population of

                                                            Ukraine) (Ukraine)

        4.                                                  Melanocorypha

                                                            calandra

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                   Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          84

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                         .                    .

                                         Appendices

               I                         II                            III

                                                             (Population of
                                                             Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    A(1) Atrichornithidae (Western scrub‑bird)               Cephalopterus
                                                             ornatus (Colombia)
           1. Atrichornis clamosus
     B Cotingidae (Cotingas)                                 Cephalopterus
                                                             penduliger
           1.                                                (Colombia)

           2.

          3. Cotinga maculata

          4.                       Rupicola spp.

          5. Xipholena
                 atropurpurea

    C Emberizidae (Cardinals, tanagers)

          1A.                                                Emberiza citrinella
                                                             (Ukraine)
          1B.                                                Emberiza
                                                             hortulana
              1.                   Gubernatrix cristata      (Population of
          1AA.                                               Ukraine) (Ukraine)
                                   Paroaria capitata
              2.                   Paroaria coronata         Melopyrrha nigra
              3.                   Sporophila angolensis     (Cuba)
            3A.                    Sporophila atrirostris
            3B.                    Sporophila crassirostris
            3C.                    Sporophila funerea
            3D.
            3E. Sporophila

                      maximiliani

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
            Endangered Species

85       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                 2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                            .                       .                    .

                                         Appendices

         I                               II              III

    3F.                       Sporophila nuttingi

    4.                        Tangara fastuosa

    5.                                                Tiaris canorus
                                                      (Cuba)

    D Estrildidae (Mannikins, waxbills)

    1.                        Amandava formosa

    2.                        Lonchura oryzivora

    3.                        Poephila cincta cincta

    E Fringillidae (Finches)

    1.                                                Carduelis
                                                      cannabina
    2.                                                (Population of
                                                      Ukraine) (Ukraine)
    3. Carduelis cucullata
    4.                                                Carduelis carduelis
                                                      (Population of
    5.                                                Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    6.                                                Carduelis flammea
                                                      (Population of
    7.                        Carduelis yarrellii     Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    8.                                                Carduelis
                                                      hornemanni
    9.                                                (Population of
                                                      Ukraine) (Ukraine)

                                                      Carduelis spinus
                                                      (Population of
                                                      Ukraine) (Ukraine)

                                                      Carpodacus
                                                      erythrinus
                                                      (Population of
                                                      Ukraine) (Ukraine)

                                                      Loxia curvirostra
                                                      (Population of
                                                      Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                     86

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                        .                   .

                                   Appendices

               I                                     II     III

          10.                                            Pyrrhula pyrrhula

                                                         (Population of

                                                         Ukraine) (Ukraine)

          11.                                            Serinus serinus

                                                         (Population of

                                                         Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    F Hirundinidae (White‑eyed river martin)

          1. Pseudochelidon
                 sirintarae

    G Icteridae (Saffron‑cowled blackbird)

          1. Xanthopsar flavus

    H Meliphagidae (Helmeted honeyeater)

          1.                    Lichenostomus melanops

                                cassidix

    I          Muscicapidae (Old‑world flycatchers)

          1.                                             Acrocephalus

                                                         rodericanus

                                                         (Mauritius)

          1A.                   Copsychus malabaricus

          2.                    Cyornis ruckii

          3.                    Dasyornis broadbenti

                                litoralis

          4.                    Dasyornis longirostris

          5.                                             Erithacus rubecula

                                                         (Population of

                                                         Ukraine) (Ukraine)

          6.                                             Ficedula parva

                                                         (Population of

                                                         Ukraine) (Ukraine)

          7.                    Garrulax canorus

          8.                    Garrulax taewanus

          9.                                             Hippolais icterina

                                                         (Population of

                                                         Ukraine) (Ukraine)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

87       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                          .                      .                    .

                               Appendices

         I                     II                     III

    10.                     Leiothrix argentauris

    11.                     Leiothrix lutea

    12.                     Liocichla omeiensis

    13.                                            Luscinia luscinia

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    14.                                            Luscinia

                                                   megarhynchos

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    15.                                            Luscinia svecica

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    16.                                            Monticola saxatilis

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    17. Picathartes
             gymnocephalus

    18. Picathartes oreas

    19.                                            Sylvia atricapilla

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    20.                                            Sylvia borin

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    21.                                            Sylvia curruca

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    22.                                            Sylvia nisoria

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    23.                                            Terpsiphone

                                                   bourbonnensis

                                                   (Mauritius)

    24.                                            Turdus merula

                                                   (Population of

                                                   Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          88

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                         .                   .

                                                  Appendices

               I                                  II                    III

          25.                                                 Turdus philomelos
                                                              (Population of
                                                              Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    I(1) Oriolidae (Eurasian Golden oriole)                   Oriolus oriolus
                                                              (Population of
          1.                                                  Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    J          Paradisaeidae (Birds of paradise)

          1.                        Paradisaeidae spp.

    J(1) Paridae (Coal tit)

          1.                                                  Parus ater
                                                              (Population of
                                                              Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    K Pittidae (Pittas)

          1.                        Pitta guajana

          2. Pitta gurneyi

          3. Pitta kochi

          4.                        Pitta nympha

    L Pycnonotidae (Straw-headed bulbul)

          1. Pycnonotus
                 zeylanicus

    M Sturnidae (Mynas)

          1.                        Gracula religiosa

          2. Leucopsar rothschildi

    M(1) Troglodytidae (Eurasian wren)

          1.                                                  Troglodytes
                                                              troglodytes
                                                              (Population of
                                                              Ukraine) (Ukraine)

    N Zosteropidae (White‑chested white‑eye)

         1. Zosterops albogularis

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          Endangered Species

89            (Import and Export) Act 2006                         2020 Ed.

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                      .                    .

                                    Appendices

              I                         II                III

    XII       PELECANIFORMES

         A Fregatidae (Christmas frigatebird)

          1. Fregata andrewsi

         B Pelecanidae (Dalmatian pelican)

          1. Pelecanus crispus

         C Sulidae (Abbot’s booby)

          1. Papasula abbotti

    XIII      PICIFORMES

         A Capitonidae (Toucan barbet)

          1.                                           Semnornis
                                                       ramphastinus
         B Picidae (Tristram’s woodpecker)             (Colombia)

              1. Dryocopus javensis                    Baillonius bailloni
                      richardsi                        (Argentina)

         C Ramphastidae (Toucans)                      Pteroglossus
                                                       castanotis
              1.                                       (Argentina)

          2.                    Pteroglossus aracari   Ramphastos
                                                       dicolorus
          3.                                           (Argentina)

          4.                    Pteroglossus viridis

          5.

          6.                    Ramphastos sulfuratus

          7.                    Ramphastos toco

          8.                    Ramphastos tucanus

          9.                    Ramphastos vitellinus

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                     90

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                           .              .

                                     Appendices

               I                     II                          III

          10.                                                 Selenidera

                                                              maculirostris

                                                              (Argentina)

XIV            PODICIPEDIFORMES

     A Podicipedidae (Giant grebe)

          1. Podilymbus gigas

XV             PROCELLARIIFORMES

     A Diomedeidae (Short-tailed albatross)

          1.                      Phoebastria albatrus

XVI            PSITTACIFORMES

          1.                      PSITTACIFORMES

                                  spp. (Except the species

                                  included in Appendix I and

                                  Agapornis roseicollis,

                                  Melopsittacus undulatus,

                                  Nymphicus hollandicus

                                  and Psittacula krameri

                                  which are not included in

                                  the Appendices)

     A Cacatuidae (Cockatoos)

          1. Cacatua goffiniana

          2. Cacatua
                 haematuropygia

          3. Cacatua moluccensis

          4. Cacatua sulphurea

          5. Probosciger
                 aterrimus

     B Loriidae (Lories)

          1. Eos histrio

          2. Vini ultramarina

     C Psittacidae (Amazons, macaws, parakeets, parrots)

          1. Amazona arausiaca

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

91  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.
                                                                 .
    THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                   III
..                           .                  .

                                Appendices

    I                           II

    2. Amazona
           auropalliata

    3. Amazona barbadensis

    4. Amazona brasiliensis

    5. Amazona finschi

    6. Amazona guildingii

    7. Amazona imperialis

    8. Amazona
           leucocephala

    9. Amazona oratrix

    10. Amazona pretrei

    11. Amazona
             rhodocorytha

    12. Amazona tucumana

    13. Amazona versicolor

    14. Amazona vinacea

    15. Amazona
             viridigenalis

    16. Amazona vittata

    17. Anodorhynchus spp.

    18. Ara ambiguus

    19. Ara glaucogularis

    20. Ara macao

    21. Ara militaris

    22. Ara rubrogenys

    23. Cyanopsitta spixii

    24. Cyanoramphus cookii

    25. Cyanoramphus
             forbesi

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                    Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                92

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                     .                .          .

                                          Appendices

          I                               II               III

          26. Cyanoramphus
                   novaezelandiae

          27. Cyanoramphus
                   saisseti

          28. Cyclopsitta
                   diophthalma coxeni

          29. Eunymphicus
                   cornutus

          30. Guarouba guarouba

          31. Neophema
                   chrysogaster

          32. Ognorhynchus
                   icterotis

          32A. Pezoporus flaviventris

          33. Pezoporus
                   occidentalis

          34. Pezoporus wallicus

          35. Pionopsitta pileata

          36. Primolius couloni

          37. Primolius maracana

          38. Psephotellus
                   chrysopterygius

          39. Psephotellus
                   dissimilis

          40. Psephotellus
                   pulcherrimus

          41. Psittacula echo

          42. Psittacus erithacus

          43. Pyrrhura cruentata

          44. Rhynchopsitta spp.

          45. Strigops habroptilus

XVII      RHEIFORMES

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

93           (Import and Export) Act 2006                                        2020 Ed.
                                                                                     .
             THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                                       III
..                                      .                           .

                                           Appendices

             I                                   II

         A Rheidae (Rheas)

         1. Pterocnemia pennata
                (Except the subspecies
                included in
                Appendix II)

         2.                             Pterocnemia pennata

                                        pennata

         3.                             Rhea americana

    XVIII SPHENISCIFORMES

         A Spheniscidae (Penguins)

         1.                             Spheniscus demersus

         2. Spheniscus humboldti

    XIX      STRIGIFORMES (Owls)

         1.                             STRIGIFORMES spp.

                                        (Except the species

                                        included in Appendix I and

                                        Sceloglaux albifacies

                                        which is not included in

                                        the Appendices)

         A Strigidae (Owls)

         1. Heteroglaux blewitti

         2. Mimizuku gurneyi

         3. Ninox natalis

         B Tytonidae (Barn owls)

         1. Tyto soumagnei

    XX       STRUTHIONIFORMES

         A Struthionidae (Ostriches)

         1. Struthio camelus
                (Only the populations
                of Algeria, Burkina
                Faso, Cameroon, the
                Central African
                Republic, Chad, Mali,

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                    94

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                        .                        .       .

                                             Appendices

              I                              II                       III

              Mauritania, Morocco,
              the Niger, Nigeria,
              Senegal and the
              Sudan; no other
              population is included
              in the Appendices)

XXI           TINAMIFORMES

     A Tinamidae (Solitary tinamou)

          1. Tinamus solitarius

XXII          TROGONIFORMES

     A Trogonidae (Magnificent quetzal)

          1. Pharomachrus
                 mocinno

                                          CLASS REPTILIA
                                              (REPTILES)

I             CROCODYLIA (Alligators, caimans, crocodiles)

          1.                              CROCODYLIA spp.

                                          (Except the species

                                          included in Appendix I)

     A Alligatoridae (Alligators, caimans)

          1. Alligator sinensis

          2. Caiman crocodilus
                 apaporiensis

          3. Caiman latirostris
                 (Except the
                 populations of
                 Argentina and Brazil,
                 which are included in
                 Appendix II. The
                 population of Brazil of
                 Caiman latirostris is
                 included in
                 Appendix II subject to
                 a zero annual export
                 quota for wild
                 specimens traded for
                 commercial purposes)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

95  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                2020 Ed.
                                                                    .
    THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                      III
..                                  .              .

                                       Appendices

    I                                  II

    4. Melanosuchus niger
           (Except the
           populations of Brazil
           and Ecuador which are
           included in
           Appendix II. The
           population of Ecuador
           of Melanosuchus
           niger is included in
           Appendix II subject to
           a zero annual export
           quota until an annual
           export quota has been
           approved by the
           CITES Secretariat and
           the IUCN/SSC
           Crocodile Specialist
           Group)

    B Crocodylidae (Crocodiles)

    1. Crocodylus acutus
           (Except the
           populations of
           Colombia [Integrated
           Management District
           of Mangroves of the
           Bay of Cispata,
           Tinajones, La Balsa
           and Surrounding
           Areas, Department of
           C&#243;rdoba&#93;,
           Cuba and Mexico
           which are included in
           Appendix II. The
           population of Mexico
           of Crocodylus acutus
           is included in
           Appendix II subject to
           a zero export quota for
           wild specimens for
           commercial purposes)

    2. Crocodylus
           cataphractus

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                              Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                96

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                         .              .        .

                                              Appendices

          I                                   II             III

          3. Crocodylus
                 intermedius

          4. Crocodylus
                 mindorensis

          5. Crocodylus moreletii
                 (Except the
                 populations of Belize
                 and Mexico, which are
                 included in
                 Appendix II. The
                 population of Belize of
                 Crocodylus moreletii
                 is included in
                 Appendix II with a
                 zero quota for wild
                 specimens traded for
                 commercial purposes)

          6. Crocodylus niloticus
                 [Except the
                 populations of
                 Botswana, Egypt
                 (subject to a zero quota
                 for wild specimens
                 traded for commercial
                 purposes), Ethiopia,
                 Kenya, Madagascar,
                 Malawi, Mozambique,
                 Namibia, South
                 Africa, Uganda, the
                 United Republic of
                 Tanzania (subject to an
                 annual export quota of
                 no more than 1,600
                 wild specimens
                 including hunting
                 trophies, in addition to
                 ranched specimens),
                 Zambia and
                 Zimbabwe, which are
                 included in
                 Appendix II]

          7. Crocodylus palustris

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                    Endangered Species

97               (Import and Export) Act 2006                        2020 Ed.
                                                                         .
                 THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                           III
..                                       .              .

                                            Appendices

                 I                          II

         8. Crocodylus porosus
                {Except the
                populations of
                Australia, Indonesia,
                Malaysia [wild harvest
                restricted to the State
                of Sarawak and a zero
                quota for wild
                specimens for the
                other States of
                Malaysia (Sabah and
                Peninsular Malaysia),
                with no change in the
                zero quota unless
                approved by the
                Parties], Palawan
                islands, Philippines
                [subject to a zero
                annual export quota
                for wild specimens
                traded for commercial
                purposes] and Papua
                New Guinea, which
                are included in
                Appendix II}

         9. Crocodylus rhombifer

         10. Crocodylus siamensis

         11. Osteolaemus tetraspis

         12. Tomistoma schlegelii

         C Gavialidae (Indian gavial)

         1. Gavialis gangeticus

    II   RHYNCHOCEPHALIA

         A Sphenodontidae (Tuataras)

         1. Sphenodon spp.

    III  SAURIA

         A Agamidae (Spiny‑tailed lizards, agamas)

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      Endangered Species

2020 Ed.           (Import and Export) Act 2006                                               98

..                 THE SCHEDULE — continued

             1A.                          .                         .                      .
             1B.
             1C.                             Appendices
             1D.
             1E.   I                         II                        III

              1F.                                                   Calotes ceylonensis
             1G.                                                    (Sri Lanka)

               1.                                                   Calotes desilvai
                                                                    (Sri Lanka)
               2.
               3.                                                   Calotes liocephalus
               4.                                                   (Sri Lanka)

               5.                                                   Calotes liolepis (Sri
               6.                                                   Lanka)
               7.
               8.                                                   Calotes
               9.                                                   manamendrai
              10.                                                   (Sri Lanka)

                                                                    Calotes nigrilabris
                                                                    (Sri Lanka)

                                                                    Calotes
                                                                    pethiyagodai (Sri
                                                                    Lanka)

                                          Ceratophora aspera (Zero
                                          quota for wild specimens
                                          for commercial purposes)

                   Ceratophora erdeleni

                   Ceratophora karu

                                          Ceratophora stoddartii
                                          (Zero quota for wild
                                          specimens for commercial
                                          purposes)

                   Ceratophora tennentii

                   Cophotis ceylanica

                   Cophotis dumbara

                                                                    Ctenophorus spp.
                                                                    (Australia)

                                                                    Intellagama spp.
                                                                    (Australia)

                                          Lyriocephalus scutatus
                                          (Zero quota for wild

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                       Endangered Species

99        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                    2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                          .                           .                 .

                                    Appendices

          I                              II                III

                            specimens for commercial
                            purposes)

    10A.                    Physignathus cocincinus

    11.                     Saara spp.

    12.                                                 Tympanocryptis

                                                        spp. (Australia)

    13.                     Uromastyx spp.

    B Anguidae (Alligator lizards)

    1.                      Abronia spp.

                            [Except the species
                            included in Appendix I
                            (Abronia aurita,
                            Abronia gaiophantasma,
                            Abronia montecristoi,
                            Abronia salvadorensis and
                            Abronia vasconcelosii are
                            subject to a zero export
                            quota for wild specimens)]

    2. Abronia anzuetoi

    3. Abronia campbelli

    4. Abronia fimbriata

    5. Abronia frosti

    6. Abronia meledona

    7. Caribicus warreni

    C Chamaeleonidae (Chameleons)

    1.                      Archaius spp.

    2.                      Bradypodion spp.

    3.                      Brookesia spp. (Except

                            the species included in

                            Appendix I)

    4. Brookesia perarmata

    5.                      Calumma spp.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                          100

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                .                                  .               .

                                         Appendices

               I                         II             III

          6.      Chamaeleo spp.

          7.      Furcifer spp.

          8.      Kinyongia spp.

          9.      Nadzikambia spp.

          10.     Palleon spp.

          11.     Rhampholeon spp.

          12.     Rieppeleon spp.

          13.     Trioceros spp.

    D Cordylidae (Spiny‑tailed lizards)

          1.      Cordylus spp.

          2.      Hemicordylus spp.

          3.      Karusaurus spp.

          4.      Namazonurus spp.

          5.      Ninurta spp.

          6.      Ouroborus spp.

          7.      Pseudocordylus spp.

          8.      Smaug spp.

    D(1) Eublepharidae (Eyelid geckos)

          1.                                         Goniurosaurus
                                                     kuroiwae #18
          2.                                         (Japan)

          3.                                         Goniurosaurus
                                                     orientalis #18
          4.                                         (Japan)

                                                     Goniurosaurus
                                                     sengokui #18
                                                     (Japan)

                                                     Goniurosaurus
                                                     splendens #18
                                                     (Japan)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Endangered Species

101  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                                  2020 Ed.

     THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                           .                         .

                                  I     Appendices
              5.
                                        II                          III
              6.
                                     Goniurosaurus spp.
              7.                     (except the species native
                                     to Japan)
         E Gekkonidae (Geckos)
          1AA.                                                   Goniurosaurus
                                                                 toyamai #18 (Japan)
              1.
                                                                 Goniurosaurus
            1A. Cnemaspis                                        yamashinae #18
                      psychedelica
                                                                 (Japan)
            1B.
              2.                                                 Ailuronyx spp.
                                                                 (Seychelles)
            2A.
            2B. Gonatodes daudini                                Carphodactylus
                                                                 spp. (Australia)
              3.
                                     Cyrtodactylus jeyporensis
              4. Lygodactylus                                          Dactylocnemis spp.
                      williamsi                                        (New Zealand)

              5.                     Gekko gecko

              6.                                                       Hoplodactylus spp.
              7.                                                       (New Zealand)
            7A.
                                     Nactus serpensinsula        Mokopirirakau
            7B.                      Naultinus spp.              spp. (New Zealand)

            7C.                      Paroedura androyensis       Nephrurus spp.
                                                                 (Australia)
                                                                 Orraya spp.
                                                                 (Australia)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      Endangered Species

2020 Ed.           (Import and Export) Act 2006                       102

..                 THE SCHEDULE — continued

               8.     .                          .                    .
               9.
             9A.         Appendices

           9AA.    I     II                         III
           9AB.
                      Paroedura masobe
             9B.
              10.     Phelsuma spp.
            10A.
            10B.                                 Phyllurus spp.
            10C.                                 (Except the species
                                                 listed in
            10D.                                 Appendix II)
            10E.                                 (Australia)

            10F.      Phyllurus amnicola

            10G.      Phyllurus caudiannulatus

            10H.      Rhoptropella spp.

             10I.                                Saltuarius spp.
                                                 (Australia)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 armasi (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 celicara (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 dimorphicus
                                                 (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 intermedius (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 nigropunctatus
                                                 alayoi (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 nigropunctatus
                                                 granti (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 nigropunctatus
                                                 lissodesmus (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 nigropunctatus
                                                 ocujal (Cuba)

                                                 Sphaerodactylus
                                                 nigropunctatus
                                                 strategus (Cuba)

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
              Endangered Species

103        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                   2020 Ed.

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                          .                           .                 .

                               Appendices

           I                             II                     III

     10J.                                               Sphaerodactylus

                                                        notatus atactus

                                                        (Cuba)

     10K.                                               Sphaerodactylus

                                                        oliveri (Cuba)

     10L.                                               Sphaerodactylus

                                                        pimienta (Cuba)

     10M.                                               Sphaerodactylus
                                                        ruibali (Cuba)

     10N.                                               Sphaerodactylus

                                                        siboney (Cuba)

     10O.                                               Sphaerodactylus

                                                        torrei (Cuba)

     10P.                                               Strophurus spp.

                                                        (Australia)

     10Q.                   Tarentola chazaliae

     11.                                                Toropuku spp.

                                                        (New Zealand)

     12.                                                Tukutuku spp.

                                                        (New Zealand)

     12A.                                               Underwoodisaurus

                                                        spp. (Australia)

     13.                    Uroplatus spp.

     13A.                                               Uvidicolus spp.

                                                        (Australia)

     14.                                                Woodworthia spp.

                                                        (New Zealand)

     F Helodermatidae (Beaded lizards, Gila monster)

     1.                     Heloderma spp. (Except

                            the subspecies included in

                            Appendix I)

     2. Heloderma horridum
            charlesbogerti

     G Iguanidae (Iguanas)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                            104

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                       .                    .
                                             Appendices
                                  I                 II          III
              1. Amblyrhynchus
                                     Cteonosaura spp.        Gallotia spp.
                      cristatus                              (Except Gallotia
              2. Brachylophus spp.   Iguana spp.             simonyi included in
              3. Conolophus spp.     [Deleted by S 761/2023  Appendix I)
            3A.                      wef 25/11/2023&#93;     (European Union)
              4. [Deleted by         [Deleted by S 761/2023
                                     wef 25/11/2023&#93;
                      S 777/2019]    [Deleted by S 761/2023
              5. [Deleted by         wef 25/11/2023&#93;
                                     [Deleted by S 761/2023
                      S 777/2019]    wef 25/11/2023&#93;
              6. [Deleted by
                                     Podarcis lilfordi
                      S 777/2019]    Podarcis pityusensis
              7. [Deleted by

                      S 777/2019]
              8. Cyclura spp.
              9.
             10.

             11.

             12.

             13.

             14. Sauromalus varius
         H Lacertidae (Lizards)

            1A.

              1. Gallotia simonyi
              2.
              3.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                Endangered Species

105         (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      2020 Ed.

            THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                         .                    .

                                     Appendices

            I                                II                     III

     I      Lanthanotidae (Earless monitor lizards)

        1.                        Lanthanotidae spp. (Zero

                                  export quota for wild

                                  specimens for commercial

                                  purposes)

     I(1A) Phrynosomatidae (Horned lizards)

        1.                        Phrynosoma spp.

     I(1) Polychrotidae (Anoles)

        1.                                                  Anolis agueroi

                                                            (Cuba)

        2.                                                  Anolis baracoae

                                                            (Cuba)

        3.                                                  Anolis barbatus

                                                            (Cuba)

        4.                                                  Anolis

                                                            chamaeleonides

                                                            (Cuba)

        5.                                                  Anolis equestris

                                                            (Cuba)

        6.                                                  Anolis guamuhaya

                                                            (Cuba)

        7.                                                  Anolis luteogularis

                                                            (Cuba)

        8.                                                  Anolis

                                                            pigmaequestris

                                                            (Cuba)

        9.                                                  Anolis porcus

                                                            (Cuba)

     J      Scincidae (Skinks)

        1.                        Corucia zebrata

        2.                                                  Egernia spp.

                                                            (Australia)

        3. Tiliqua adelaidensis

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       106

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                         .                    .

                                     Appendices

              I                                II                    III

          4.                                                Tiliqua

                                                            multifasciata

                                                            (Australia)

          5.                                                Tiliqua nigrolutea

                                                            (Australia)

          6.                                                Tiliqua occipitalis

                                                            (Australia)

          7.                                                Tiliqua rugosa

                                                            (Australia)

          8.                                                Tiliqua scincoides

                                                            intermedia

                                                            (Australia)

          9.                                                Tiliqua scincoides

                                                            scincoides

                                                            (Australia)

    K Teiidae (Caiman lizards, tegu lizards)

          1.                      Crocodilurus amazonicus

          2.                      Dracaena spp.

          3.                      Salvator spp.

          4.                      Tupinambis spp.

    L Varanidae (Monitor lizards)

          1.                      Varanus spp. (Except the

                                  species included in

                                  Appendix I)

          2. Varanus bengalensis

          3. Varanus flavescens

          4. Varanus griseus

          5. Varanus komodoensis

          6. Varanus nebulosus

    M Xenosauridae (Chinese crocodile lizard)

          1. Shinisaurus
                 crocodilurus

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

107      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                             .                              .                   .

                                        Appendices

         I                                    II                       III

IV       SERPENTES

     A Boidae (Boas)

     1.                        Boidae spp.

                               (Except the species

                               included in Appendix I)

     2. Acrantophis spp.

     3. Boa constrictor
            occidentalis

     4. [Deleted by S 92/2023
            wef 23/02/2023]

     5. Chilabothrus
            monensis

     6. Chilabothrus
            subflavus

     7. Sanzinia
            madagascariensis

     B Bolyeriidae (Round Island boas)

     1.                        Bolyeriidae spp. (Except

                               the species included in

                               Appendix I)

     2. Bolyeria
            multocarinata

     3. Casarea dussumieri

     C Colubridae (Typical snakes, water snakes, whipsnakes)

     1.                                                       Atretium

                                                              schistosum (India)

     2.                                                       Cerberus rynchops

                                                              (India)

     3.                        Clelia clelia

     4.                        Cyclagras gigas

     5.                        Elachistodon

                               westermanni

     6.                        Ptyas mucosus

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                           108

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                .                                .                  .

                                       Appendices

               I                        II                   III

          7.                                       Xenochrophis
                                                   piscator (India)
          8.
                                                   Xenochrophis
          9.                                       schnurrenbergeri
                                                   (India)

                                                   Xenochrophis
                                                   tytleri (India)

    D Elapidae (Cobras, coral snakes)

          1.      Hoplocephalus

                  bungaroides

          2.                                       Micrurus diastema
                                                   (Honduras)
          3.
                                                   Micrurus
          4.                                       nigrocinctus
                                                   (Honduras)

                                                   Micrurus ruatanus
                                                   (Honduras)

          5.      Naja atra

          6.      Naja kaouthia

          7.      Naja mandalayensis

          8.      Naja naja

          9.      Naja oxiana

          10.     Naja philippinensis

          11.     Naja sagittifera

          12.     Naja samarensis

          13.     Naja siamensis

          14.     Naja sputatrix

          15.     Naja sumatrana

          16.     Ophiophagus hannah

    E Loxocemidae (Mexican dwarf boas)

          1.      Loxocemidae spp.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

109       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                            2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                           .                   .

                                        Appendices

          I                                       II                       III

     F Pythonidae (Pythons)

     1.                              Pythonidae spp. (Except

                                     the subspecies included in

                                     Appendix I)

     2. Python molurus

     G Tropidophiidae (Wood boas)

     1.                              Tropidophiidae spp.

     H Viperidae (Vipers)

     1.                              Atheris desaixi

     1A. Bitis harenna

     1B. Bitis parviocula

     2.                              Bitis worthingtoni

     3.                                                          Crotalus durissus

                                                                 (Honduras)

     3A.                                                         Daboia palaestinae

                                                                 (Israel)

     4.                                                          Daboia russelii

                                                                 (India)

     4A.                             Pseudocerastes

                                     urarachnoides

     5.                              Protobothrops

                                     mangshanensis

     6. Vipera ursinii
            (Only the population
            of Europe, except the
            area which formerly
            constituted the Union
            of Soviet Socialist
            Republics; these latter
            populations are not
            included in the
            Appendices)

     7.                              Montivipera wagneri

V         TESTUDINES

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                        110

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                           .                   .

                                      Appendices

               I                                 II               III

    A Carettochelyidae (Pig‑nosed turtle)

          1.                       Carettochelys insculpta

    B Chelidae (Matamata, Roti‑snake‑necked turtle, Western
            swamp turtle)

          1.                       Chelodina mccordi (Zero

                                   export quota for specimens

                                   from the wild)

          1A.                      Chelus fimbriatus

                                   (includes Chelus

                                   orinocensis)

          2. Pseudemydura
                 umbrina

    C Cheloniidae (Sea turtles)

          1. Cheloniidae spp.

    D Chelydridae (Snapping turtles)

          1.                       Chelydra serpentina

          2.                       Macrochelys temminckii

    E Dermatemydidae (Central American river turtles)

          1.                       Dermatemys mawii

    F Dermochelyidae (Leatherback turtles)

          1. Dermochelys coriacea

    G Emydidae (Box turtles, freshwater turtles)

          1.                       Clemmys guttata

          2.                       Emydoidea blandingii

          2A.                                                  Emys orbicularis

                                                               (Population of

                                                               Ukraine) (Ukraine)

          3.                       Glyptemys insculpta

          4. Glyptemys
                 muhlenbergii

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

111       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                     2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                          .                           .                     .

                               Appendices

          I                              II                III

     5.                                                 Graptemys spp.

                                                        (United States of

                                                        America) (Except

                                                        the species included

                                                        in Appendix II)

     5A.                    Graptemys barbouri

                            Grapytemys ernsti

                            Graptemys gibbonsi

                            Graptemys pearlensis

                            Graptemys pulchra

     6.                     Malaclemys terrapin

     7.                     Terrapene spp. (Except

                            the species included in

                            Appendix I)

     8. Terrapene coahuila

     H Geoemydidae (Box turtles, freshwater turtles)

     1. Batagur affinis

     2. Batagur baska

     3.                     Batagur borneoensis

                            (Zero quota for wild

                            specimens for commercial

                            purposes)

     4.                     Batagur dhongoka

     5. Batagur kachuga

     6.                     Batagur trivittata (Zero

                            quota for wild specimens

                            for commercial purposes)

     7.                     Cuora spp. (Except the

                            species included in

                            Appendix I, zero quota for

                            wild specimens for

                            commercial purposes for

                            Cuora aurocapitata,

                            Cuora flavomarginata,

                            Cuora mccordi, Cuora

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                   Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                          112

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                         .       .

                                      Appendices

               I                              II                III

                                   mouhotii, Cuora pani,
                                   Cuora trifasciata, Cuora
                                   yunnanensis and Cuora
                                   zhoui)

          7A. Cuora bourreti

          7AA. Cuora galbinifrons

          7B. Cuora picturata

          8.                       Cyclemys spp.

          9. Geoclemys hamiltonii

          10.                      Geoemyda japonica

          11.                      Geoemyda spengleri

          12.                      Hardella thurjii

          13.                      Heosemys annandalii

                                   (Zero quota for wild

                                   specimens for commercial

                                   purposes)

          14.                      Heosemys depressa (Zero

                                   quota for wild specimens

                                   for commercial purposes)

          15.                      Heosemys grandis

          16.                      Heosemys spinosa

          17.                      Leucocephalon yuwonoi

          18.                      Malayemys macrocephala

          19.                      Malayemys subtrijuga

          20. Mauremys
                   annamensis

          21. [Deleted by
                   S 100/2025 wef
                   07/02/2025]

          22.                      Mauremys japonica

          23. [Deleted by
                   S 100/2025 wef
                   07/02/2025]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
     Endangered Species

113  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       2020 Ed.

     THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                    .                         .                          .

                                  I      Appendices
             24.
             25.                         II                        III
             26. [Deleted by
                                      Mauremys mutica
                      S 100/2025 wef
                      07/02/2025]     Mauremys nigricans
             27.
                                                                        Mauremys reevesii
             28.                                                        (China)
                                                                        Mauremys sinensis
             29. Melanochelys                                           (China)
                      tricarinata
                                      Melanochelys trijuga
             30.
             31. Morenia ocellata     Morenia petersi
             32.                      Notochelys platynota
             33.
             34. [Deleted by          Orlitia borneensis (Zero
                                      quota for wild specimens
                      S 100/2025 wef  for commercial purposes)
                      07/02/2025]     Pangshura spp. (Except
             35. [Deleted by          the species included in
                      S 100/2025 wef  Appendix I)
                      07/02/2025]
             36.                      Rhinoclemmys spp.
                                      Sacalia bealei
             37.
                                      Sacalia quadriocellata
             38. Pangshura tecta
           38A.

             39.
             40. [Deleted by

                      S 100/2025 wef
                      07/02/2025]
             41.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                             114

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                             .       .

                                      Appendices

               I                                    II             III

          42.                     Siebenrockiella

                                  crassicollis

          43.                     Siebenrockiella leytensis

          44.                     Vijayachelys silvatica

    H(1) Kinosternidae (Mud turtles)

          1.                      Claudius angustatus

          2.                      Kinosternon spp. (Except

                                  the species included in

                                  Appendix I)

          3. Kinosternon cora

          4. Kinosternon vogti

          5.                      Staurotypus salvinii

          6.                      Staurotypus triporcatus

          7.                      Sternotherus spp.

    I          Platysternidae (Big‑headed turtles)

          1. Platysternidae spp.

    J          Podocnemididae (Afro‑American sideneck turtles)

          1.                      Erymnochelys

                                  madagascariensis

          2.                      Peltocephalus

                                  dumerilianus

          3.                      Podocnemis spp.

    K Testudinidae (Tortoises)

          1.                      Testudinidae spp. (Except

                                  the species included in

                                  Appendix I. A zero annual

                                  export quota has been

                                  established for

                                  Centrochelys sulcata for

                                  specimens removed from

                                  the wild and traded for

                                  primarily commercial

                                  purposes)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

115      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                 2020 Ed.
                                                                          .
         THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                            III
..                             .                         .

                                         Appendices

         I                                  II

     2. Astrochelys radiata

     3. Astrochelys yniphora

     4. Chelonoidis niger

     4A. Geochelone elegans

     5. Geochelone platynota

     6. Gopherus
            flavomarginatus

     6AA. Kinixys homeana

     6A. Malacochersus
               tornieri

     7. Psammobates
            geometricus

     8. Pyxis arachnoides

     9. Pyxis planicauda

     10. Testudo kleinmanni

     L Trionychidae (Softshell turtles)

     1.                        Amyda cartilaginea

     2.                        Apalone spp. (Except the

                               subspecies included in

                               Appendix I)

     3. [Deleted by S 92/2023
            wef 23/02/2023]

     4. [Deleted by S 92/2023
            wef 23/02/2023]

     5. Apalone spinifera
            atra

     6.                        Chitra spp. (Except the

                               species included in

                               Appendix I)

     7. Chitra chitra

     8. Chitra vandijki

     9.                        Cyclanorbis elegans

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

2020 Ed.              (Import and Export) Act 2006                     116

                      THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                           .       .

                                      Appendices

                      I                                    II     III

          10.                      Cyclanorbis senegalensis

          11.                      Cycloderma aubryi

          12.                      Cycloderma frenatum

          13.                      Dogania subplana

          14.                      Lissemys ceylonensis

          15.                      Lissemys punctata

          16.                      Lissemys scutata

          17.                      Nilssonia formosa

          18. Nilssonia gangetica

          19. Nilssonia hurum

          20. Nilssonia leithii

          21. Nilssonia nigricans

          22.                      Palea steindachneri

          23.                      Pelochelys spp.

          24.                      Pelodiscus axenaria

          25.                      Pelodiscus maackii

          26.                      Pelodiscus parviformis

          27.                      Rafetus euphraticus

          28.                      Rafetus swinhoei

          29.                      Trionyx triunguis

Note:

    #18 Excluding parts and derivatives, other than eggs.

                                   CLASS AMPHIBIA
                                     (AMPHIBIANS)

I              ANURA

    A Aromobatidae (Cryptic forest frogs)

          1.                       Allobates femoralis

          2.                       Allobates hodli

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

117      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                            .                        .                  .

                                       Appendices

         I                             II                 III

     3.                       Allobates myersi

     4.                       Allobates zaparo

     5.                       Anomaloglossus rufulus

     B Bufonidae (Toads)

     1. Altiphrynoides spp.

     2. Sclerophrys
            channingi

     3. Sclerophrys
            superciliaris

     4. Atelopus zeteki

     5. Incilius periglenes

     6. Nectophrynoides spp.

     7. Nimbaphrynoides
            spp.

     C Calyptocephalellidae (Chilean toad)

     1.                                                Calyptocephalella

                                                       gayi (Chile)

     C(1) Centrolenidae (Glass frogs)

     1.                       Centrolenidae spp.

     D Dendrobatidae (Poison frogs)

     1.                       Adelphobates spp.

     2.                       Ameerega spp.

     3.                       Andinobates spp.

     4.                       Dendrobates spp.

     5.                       Epipedobates spp.

     6.                       Excidobates spp.

     7.                       Hyloxalus azureiventris

     8.                       Minyobates spp.

     9.                       Oophaga spp.

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                        118

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                          .                          .           .

                                    Appendices

               I                       II                 III

          9A.               Paruwrobates andinus

          9B.               Paruwrobates erythromos

          10.               Phyllobates spp.

          11.               Ranitomeya spp.

    E Dicroglossidae (Indian bullfrogs)

          1.                Euphlyctis hexadactylus

          2.                Hoplobatrachus tigerinus

    F Hylidae (Tree frogs)

          1.                Agalychnis spp. (Includes

                            Agalychnis annae,

                            Agalychnis callidryas,

                            Agalychnis lemur,

                            Agalychnis moreletii,

                            Agalychnis saltator,

                            Agalychnis spurrelli and

                            Agalychnis terranova. For

                            Agalychnis lemur, a zero

                            annual export quota for

                            wild‑taken specimens

                            traded for commercial

                            purposes)

    G Mantellidae (Mantella frogs)

          1.                Mantella spp.

    H Microhylidae (Tomato frogs)

          1.                Dyscophus antongilii

          2.                Dyscophus guineti

          3.                Dyscophus insularis

          4.                Scaphiophryne boribory

          5.                Scaphiophryne gottlebei

          6.                Scaphiophryne

                            marmorata

          7.                Scaphiophryne spinosa

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

119                   (Import and Export) Act 2006                            2020 Ed.

                      THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                             .                           .                   .

                                  Appendices

                      I                      II                     III

     I       Myobatrachidae (Gastric‑brooding frogs)

        1.                     Rheobatrachus spp.

                               (Except Rheobatrachus

                               silus and Rheobatrachus

                               vitellinus which are not

                               included in the

                               Appendices)

     J Telmatobiidae (Titicaca water frog)

        1. Telmatobius culeus

II           CAUDATA

     A Ambystomatidae (Axolotl, mole salamander)

        1.                     Ambystoma dumerilii

        2.                     Ambystoma mexicanum

     B Cryptobranchidae (Giant salamanders)

        1. Andrias spp.

        2.                                                 Cryptobranchus

                                                           alleganiensis

                                                           (United States of

                                                           America)

     C Hynobiidae (Asiatic salamander)

        1.                                                 Hynobius amjiensis

                                                           (China)

     D Salamandridae (Newts and salamanders)

        1A.                                                Echinotriton

                                                           andersoni #18

                                                           (Japan)

        1.                     Echinotriton chinhaiensis

        2.                     Echinotriton

                               maxiquadratus

        2A.                    Laotriton laoensis (A zero

                               annual export quota for

                               wild-taken specimens

                               traded for commercial

                               purposes)

        Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       120

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                          .                  .

                                       Appendices

               I                                           II     III

          3. Neurergus kaiseri

          4.                        Paramesotriton spp.

          5.                                                   Salamandra algira
                                                               (Algeria)

          6.                        Tylototriton spp.

Note:

    #18 Excluding parts and derivatives, other than eggs.

                                CLASS ELASMOBRANCHII
                                            (SHARKS)

I              CARCHARHINIFORMES

    A Carcharhinidae (Requiem sharks)

          1.                        Carcharhinidae spp.

                                    (Except the species

                                    included in Appendix I)

          2. Carcharhinus
                 longimanus

    B Sphyrnidae (Hammerhead sharks)

          1.                        Sphyrnidae spp.

          2. [Deleted by S 92/2023
                 wef 23/02/2023]

          3. [Deleted by S 92/2023
                 wef 23/02/2023]

II             LAMNIFORMES

    A Alopiidae (Thresher sharks)

          1.                        Alopias spp.

    B Cetorhinidae (Basking shark)

          1.                        Cetorhinus maximus

    C Lamnidae (Mackerel sharks)

          1.                        Carcharodon carcharias

          1A.                       Isurus oxyrinchus

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Endangered Species

121       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                         .                         .                    .

                                         Appendices

          I                              II                    III

     1B.                   Isurus paucus

     2.                    Lamna nasus

III       MYLIOBATIFORMES

     A Mobulidae (Manta and devil rays)

     1. MOBULIDAE spp.

     B Potamotrygonidae (Freshwater stingrays)

     1.                                              Paratrygon aiereba

                                                     (Colombia)

     2.                                              Potamotrygon spp.

                                                     (Only the

                                                     populations of

                                                     Brazil not included

                                                     in Appendix II)

                                                     (Brazil)

     2A.                   Potamotrygon

                           albimaculata

     3.                                              Potamotrygon

                                                     constellata

                                                     (Colombia)

     3A.                   Potamotrygon henlei

     3B.                   Potamotrygon jabuti

     3C.                   Potamotrygon leopoldi

     4.                                              Potamotrygon

                                                     magdalenae

                                                     (Colombia)

     4A.                   Potamotrygon marquesi

     5.                                              Potamotrygon

                                                     motoro (Colombia)

     6.                                              Potamotrygon

                                                     orbignyi

                                                     (Colombia)

     7.                                              Potamotrygon

                                                     schroederi

                                                     (Colombia)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      122

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                          .                   .

                                     Appendices

               I                             II                 III

          8.                                                 Potamotrygon

                                                             scobina (Colombia)

          8A.                     Potamotrygon signata

          8B.                     Potamotrygon wallacei

          9.                                                 Potamotrygon

                                                             yepezi (Colombia)

IV             ORECTOLOBIFORMES

    A Rhincodontidae (Whale shark)

          1. Rhincodon typus

V              PRISTIFORMES

    A Pristidae (Sawfishes)

          1. Pristidae spp.

VI             RHINOPRISTIFORMES

    A Glaucostegidae (Guitarfishes)

          1.                      Glaucostegus spp. (A zero

                                  annual export quota for

                                  wild-taken specimens

                                  traded for commercial

                                  purposes)

    B Rhinidae (Wedgefishes)

          1.                      Rhinidae spp. (A zero

                                  annual export quota for

                                  wild‑taken specimens

                                  traded for commercial

                                  purposes)

    C Rhinobatidae (Guitarfishes)

          1.                      Rhinobatidae spp.

                             CLASS ACTINOPTERI
                                      (FISHES)

I              ACIPENSERIFORMES

          1.                      ACIPENSERIFORMES

                                  spp. (Except the species

                                  included in Appendix I)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

123      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                    2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                .                         .                   .

                                     Appendices

         I                           II                        III

     A Acipenseridae (Sturgeons)

     1. Acipenser
            brevirostrum

     2. Acipenser sturio

II       ANGUILLIFORMES

     A Anguillidae (River eel)

     1.                           Anguilla anguilla

III      CYPRINIFORMES

     A Catostomidae (Cui‑ui)

     1. Chasmistes cujus

     B Cyprinidae (Carps)

     1.                           Caecobarbus geertsii

     2. Probarbus jullieni

IV       OSTEOGLOSSIFORMES

     A Arapaimidae (Arapaima)

     1.                           Arapaima gigas

     B Osteoglossidae (Bonytongues)

     1. Scleropages formosus

     2. Scleropages
            inscriptus

V        PERCIFORMES

     A Labridae (Humphead wrasse)

     1.                           Cheilinus undulatus

     B Pomacanthidae (Angelfishes)

     1.                           Holacanthus clarionensis

     2.                                                     Holacanthus

                                                            limbaughi (France)

     C Sciaenidae (Totoaba)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                          124

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                           .                    .

                                      Appendices

              I                       II                          III

          1. Totoaba macdonaldi

VI            SILURIFORMES

     A Loricariidae (Zebra pleco)

          1.                       Hypancistrus zebra (A

                                   zero export quota for wild

                                   specimens traded for

                                   commercial purposes)

     B Pangasiidae (Giant catfish)

          1. Pangasianodon gigas

VII           SYNGNATHIFORMES

     A Syngnathidae (Seahorses)

          1.                       Hippocampus spp.

                             CLASS DIPNEUSTI
                               (LUNGFISHES)

I             CERATODONTIFORMES

     A Neoceratodontidae (Queensland lungfish)

          1.                       Neoceratodus forsteri

                 CLASS COELACANTHI
                     (COELACANTHS)

I             COELACANTHIFORMES

     A Latimeriidae (Coelacanths)

          1. Latimeria spp.

                 PHYLUM ECHINODERMATA

                 CLASS HOLOTHUROIDEA
                      (SEA CUCUMBERS)

I             ASPIDOCHIROTIDA

     A Stichopodidae (Sea cucumbers)

          1.                                                   Isostichopus fuscus

                                                               (Ecuador)

          2.                       Thelenota spp.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                        Endangered Species

125                (Import and Export) Act 2006                  2020 Ed.

                   THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                               .                       .                    .

                                    Appendices

                   I                II                      III

II        HOLOTHURIIDA

     A Holothuriidae (Teatfishes, Sea cucumbers)

     1.                          Holothuria fuscogilva

     2.                          Holothuria nobilis

     3.                          Holothuria whitmaei

                      PHYLUM ARTHROPODA

                           CLASS ARACHNIDA
                      (SCORPIONS AND SPIDERS)

I         ARANEAE

     A Theraphosidae (Red‑kneed tarantulas, tarantulas)

     1.                          [Deleted by S 761/2023

                                 wef 25/11/2023]

     2.                          Aphonopelma pallidum

     3.                          Brachypelma spp.

     3A.                                                 Caribena versicolor

                                                         (European Union)

     3B.                         Grammostola rosea

     4.                          Poecilotheria spp.

     5.                          Sericopelma angustum

     6.                          Sericopelma embrithes

     7.                          Tliltocatl spp.

II        SCORPIONES

     A Scorpionidae (Scorpions)

     1.                          Pandinus camerounensis

     1A.                         Pandinus dictator

     2.                          Pandinus gambiensis

     3.                          Pandinus imperator

     4.                          Pandinus roeseli

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       126

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                          .                     .

                                   Appendices

              I                              II                     III

                                CLASS INSECTA
                                    (INSECTS)

I             COLEOPTERA

    A Lucanidae (Stag beetles)

          1.                                               Colophon spp.

                                                           (South Africa)

    B Scarabaeidae (Satanas beetle)

          1.                    Dynastes satanas

II            LEPIDOPTERA

    A Nymphalidae (Brush‑footed butterflies)

          1.                                               Agrias amydon

                                                           boliviensis

                                                           (Plurinational State

                                                           of Bolivia)

          2.                                               Morpho godartii

                                                           lachaumei

                                                           (Plurinational State

                                                           of Bolivia)

          3.                                               Prepona praeneste

                                                           buckleyana

                                                           (Plurinational State

                                                           of Bolivia)

    B Papilionidae (Birdwing butterflies, swallowtail butterflies)

          1. Achillides chikae
                 chikae

          2. Achillides chikae
                 hermeli

          3.                    Atrophaneura jophon

          4.                    Atrophaneura pandiyana

          5.                    Bhutanitis spp.

          6.                    Ornithoptera spp. (Except

                                the species included in

                                Appendix I)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                     Endangered Species

127       (Import and Export) Act 2006                              2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                      .                  .
                                             Appendices
                                  I                 II         III
              7. Ornithopthera
                                     Papilio hospiton
                      alexandrae
              8. Papilio homerus                            Papilio phorbanta
              9.                                            (European Union)
            9A.

     10. Parides burchellanus

     11.                             Parnassius apollo

     12.                             Teinopalpus spp.

     13.                             Trogonoptera spp.

     14.                             Troides spp.

                     PHYLUM ANNELIDA

                     CLASS HIRUDINOIDEA
                             (LEECHES)

I         ARHYNCHOBDELLIDA

     A Hirudinidae (Medicinal leeches)

     1.                              Hirudo medicinalis

     2.                              Hirudo verbana

                     PHYLUM MOLLUSCA

                          CLASS BIVALVIA
                     (CLAMS AND MUSSELS)

I         MYTILOIDA

     A Mytilidae (Date mussel)

     1.                              Lithophaga lithophaga

II        UNIONOIDA

     A Unionidae (Freshwater mussels, pearly mussels)

     1. Conradilla caelata

     2.                              Cyprogenia aberti

     3. Dromus dromas

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                 Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                        128

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                    .         .

                                       Appendices

               I                              II            III

          4. Epioblasma curtisi

          5. Epioblasma
                 florentina

          6. Epioblasma
                 sampsonii

          7. Epioblasma sulcata
                 perobliqua

          8. Epioblasma torulosa
                 gubernaculum

          9.                        Epioblasma torulosa

                                    rangiana

          10. Epioblasma torulosa
                   torulosa

          11. Epioblasma turgidula

          12. Epioblasma walkeri

          13. Fusconaia cuneolus

          14. Fusconaia edgariana

          15. Lampsilis higginsii

          16. Lampsilis orbiculata
                   orbiculata

          17. Lampsilis satur

          18. Lampsilis virescens

          19. Plethobasus
                   cicatricosus

          20. Plethobasus
                   cooperianus

          21.                       Pleurobema clava

          22. Pleurobema plenum

          23. Potamilus capax

          24. Quadrula intermedia

          25. Quadrula sparsa

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

129      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                 2020 Ed.
                                                                          .
         THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                            III
..                                .                      .

                                        Appendices

         I                                      II

     26. Toxolasma cylindrella

     27. Unio nickliniana

     28. Unio tampicoensis
              tecomatensis

     29. Villosa trabalis

III      VENEROIDA

     A Tridacnidae (Giant clams)

     1.                           Tridacnidae spp.

                   CLASS CEPHALOPODA
         (SQUIDS, OCTOPUSES, CUTTLEFISH)

I        NAUTILIDA

     A Nautilidae (Chambered nautilus)

     1.                           Nautilidae spp.

                      CLASS GASTROPODA
                    (SNAILS AND CONCHES)

I        MESOGASTROPODA

     A Strombidae (Queen conch)

     1.                           Strombus gigas

II       STYLOMMATOPHORA

     A Achatinellidae (Agate snails, oahu tree snails)

     1. Achatinella spp.

     B Camaenidae (Green tree snail)

     1.                           Papustyla pulcherrima

     C Cepolidae (Helicoid terrestrial snails)

     1. Polymita spp.

                           PHYLUM CNIDARIA

                  CLASS ANTHOZOA
         (CORALS AND SEA ANEMONES)

I        ANTIPATHARIA (Black corals)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                            Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                       130

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                 .                            .                .

                                           Appendices

              I                            II                            III

          1.                       ANTIPATHARIA spp.

II            GORGONACEAE

     A Coralliidae (Red and pink corals)

          1.                                                    Corallium

                                                                japonicum

                                                                (China)

          2.                                                    Pleurocorallium

                                                                elatius

                                                                (China)

          3.                                                    Pleurocorallium

                                                                konojoi

                                                                (China)

          4.                                                    Pleurocorallium

                                                                secundum

                                                                (China)

III           HELIOPORACEA

     A Helioporidae (Blue corals)

          1.                       Helioporidae spp.

                                   (Includes only the species

                                   Heliopora coerulea.

                                   Fossils are not subject to

                                   the provisions of the

                                   Convention)

IV            SCLERACTINIA (Stony corals)

          1.                       SCLERACTINIA spp.

                                   (Fossils are not subject to

                                   the provisions of the

                                   Convention)

V             STOLONIFERA

     A Tubiporidae (Organ‑pipe corals)

          1.                       Tubiporidae spp. (Fossils

                                   are not subject to the

                                   provisions of the

                                   Convention)

                                        CLASS HYDROZOA
              (SEA FERNS, FIRE CORALS AND STINGING MEDUSAE)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

131        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                            .                 .

                                        Appendices

           I                                 II                            III

I          MILLEPORINA

      A Milleporidae (Fire corals)

       1.                            Milleporidae spp.

                                     (Fossils are not subject to

                                     the provisions of the

                                     Convention)

II         STYLASTERINA

      A Stylasteridae (Lace corals)

       1.                            Stylasteridae spp.

                                     (Fossils are not subject to

                                     the provisions of the

                                     Convention)

                                     PART 2

                            FLORA (PLANTS)

I          AGAVACEAE (Agaves, bear‑grass)

       1. Agave parviflora           Agave victoriae‑reginae#4
       2.

       3.                            Nolina interrata

       4.                            Yucca queretaroensis

I(A)       AIZOACEAE (Stone plants)

       1.                                                         Conophytum spp.

                                                                  (South Africa)

       2.                                                         Mestoklema

                                                                  tuberosum (South

                                                                  Africa)

II         AMARYLLIDACEAE (Snowdrops, sternbergias)

       1.                            Galanthus spp.#4

       2.                            Sternbergia spp.#4

II(A)      ANACAMPSEROTACEAE

       1.                            Anacampseros spp.

                                     (Except the species listed
                                     in Appendix I)#4

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                               Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                   132

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                        .               .

                                        Appendices

               I                        II                             III

          2. Anacampseros
                 quinaria

          3.                         Avonia spp.(Except the

                                     species listed in
                                     Appendix I)#4

III            ANACARDIACEAE (Cashews)

          1.                         Operculicarya decaryi

          2.                         Operculicarya

                                     hyphaenoides

          3.                         Operculicarya pachypus

IV             APOCYNACEAE (Elephant trunks, hoodias, snakewood)

          1.                         Hoodia spp.#9

          2.                         Pachypodium spp.#4

                                     (Except the species

                                     included in Appendix I)

          3. Pachypodium
                 ambongense

          4. Pachypodium baronii

          5. Pachypodium decaryi

          5A. Pachypodium
                    windsorii

          5B.                                                 Raphionacme

                                                              zeyheri

                                                              (South Africa)

          6.                         Rauvolfia serpentina#2

V              ARALIACEAE (Ginseng)

          1.                         Panax ginseng#3 (Only

                                     the population of the

                                     Russian Federation; no

                                     other population is

                                     included in the

                                     Appendices)

          2.                         Panax quinquefolius#3

VI             ARAUCARIACEAE (Monkey‑puzzle)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                           Endangered Species

133       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.
                                                                            .
          THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                              III
..                             .                           .

                                     Appendices

          I                                II

      1. Araucaria araucana

VII       ASPARAGACEAE (Beaucarnea)

      1.                       Beaucarnea spp.

VIII      BERBERIDACEAE (Himalayan may‑apple)

      1.                       Podophyllum

                               hexandrum#2

     VIII(A) BIGNONIACEAE (Trumpet trees)

      1.                       Handroanthus spp. #17

      2.                       Roseodendron spp. #17

      3.                       Tabebuia spp. #17

IX        BROMELIACEAE (Tillandsias)

      1.                       Tillandsia harrisii#4

      2.                       Tillandsia kammii#4

      3.                       Tillandsia xerographica#4

IX(A) BURSERACEAE              Commiphora wightii#18
           1.

X         CACTACEAE (Cacti)

      1.                       CACTACEAE spp.9 #4

                               (Except the species

                               included in Appendix I and

                               Pereskia spp.,

                               Pereskiopsis spp. and

                               Quiabentia spp. which are

                               not included in the

                               Appendices)

      2. Ariocarpus spp.

      3. Astrophytum asterias

      4. Aztekium ritteri

      5. Coryphantha
             werdermannii

      6. Discocactus spp.

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                   Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             134

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                        .              .         .

                                             Appendices

          I                                  II             III

          7. Echinocereus
                 ferreiranus ssp.
                 lindsayorum

          8. Echinocereus
                 schmollii

          9. Escobaria minima

          10. Escobaria sneedii

          11. Mammillaria
                   pectinifera (includes
                   ssp. solisioides)

          12. Melocactus conoideus

          13. Melocactus
                   deinacanthus

          14. Melocactus
                   glaucescens

          15. Melocactus
                   paucispinus

          16. Obregonia denegrii

          17. Pachycereus militaris

          18. Pediocactus bradyi

          19. Pediocactus
                   knowltonii

          20. Pediocactus paradinei

          21. Pediocactus
                   peeblesianus

          22. Pediocactus sileri

          23. Pelecyphora spp.

          24. Sclerocactus blainei

          25. Sclerocactus
                   brevihamatus ssp.
                   tobuschii

          26. Sclerocactus
                   brevispinus

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

135       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                   2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                        .                .

                                   Appendices

          I                               II                III

     27. Sclerocactus cloverae

     28. Sclerocactus
              erectocentrus

     29. Sclerocactus glaucus

     30. Sclerocactus
              mariposensis

     31. Sclerocactus
              mesae‑verdae

     32. Sclerocactus nyensis

     33. Sclerocactus
              papyracanthus

     34. Sclerocactus
              pubispinus

     35. Sclerocactus sileri

     36. Sclerocactus
              wetlandicus

     37. Sclerocactus
              wrightiae

     38. Strombocactus spp.

     39. Turbinicarpus spp.

     40. Uebelmannia spp.

XI        CARYOCARACEAE (Ajo)

     1.                         Caryocar costaricense#4

XII       COMPOSITAE (Asteraceae) (Kuth)

     1A.                                                 Crassothonna

                                                         clavifolia

                                                         (South Africa)

     1B.                                                 Othonna armiana

                                                         (South Africa)

     1C.                                                 Othonna

                                                         cacalioides

                                                         (South Africa)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                      136

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                        .                   .

                                           Appendices

               I                           II                          III

          1D.                                                Othonna
                                                             euphorbioides
          1E.                                                (South Africa)

                                                             Othonna retrorsa
                                                             (South Africa)

          1. Saussurea costus

XII(A) CRASSULACEAE (Roseroot)

          1.                        Rhodiola spp.#2

          2.                                                 Tylecodon bodleyae
                                                             (South Africa)
          3.
                                                             Tylecodon nolteei
          4.                                                 (South Africa)

                                                             Tylecodon
                                                             reticulatus
                                                             (South Africa)

XIII           CUCURBITACEAE (Melons, gourds, cucurbits)

          1.                        Zygosicyos pubescens

          2.                        Zygosicyos tripartitus

XIV            CUPRESSACEAE (Cypresses)

          1. Fitzroya cupressoides

          2. Pilgerodendron
                 uviferum

          3.                        Widdringtonia whytei

XV             CYATHEACEAE (Tree‑ferns)

          1.                        Cyathea spp.#4

XVI            CYCADACEAE (Cycads)

          1.                        CYCADACEAE spp.#4

                                    (Except the species

                                    included in Appendix I)

          2. Cycas beddomei

XVII           DICKSONIACEAE (Tree‑ferns)

          1.                        Cibotium barometz#4

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Endangered Species

137       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.
                                                                            .
          THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                              III
..                             .                           .

                                   Appendices

          I                        II

      2.                       Dicksonia spp.#4 (Only

                               the populations of the

                               Americas; no other

                               population is included in

                               the Appendices)

XVIII DIDIEREACEAE (Alluaudias, didiereas)

      1.                       DIDIEREACEAE spp. #4

XIX       DIOSCOREACEAE (Elephant’s foot)

      1.                       Dioscorea deltoidea#4

XX        DROSERACEAE (Venus flytrap)

      1.                       Dionaea muscipula#4

XXI       EBENACEAE (Ebonies)

      1.                       Diospyros spp.#5(Only the

                               populations of

                               Madagascar; no other

                               population is included in

                               the Appendices)

XXII      EUPHORBIACEAE (Spurges)

      1.                       Euphorbia spp. #4

                               (Succulent species only,

                               except the species

                               included in Appendix I and

                               Euphorbia misera which is

                               not included in the

                               Appendices. Artificially

                               propagated specimens of

                               cultivars of Euphorbia

                               trigona, artificially

                               propagated specimens of

                               crested, fan‑shaped or

                               colour mutants of

                               Euphorbia lactea, when

                               grafted on artificially

                               propagated root stock of

                               Euphorbia neriifolia, and

                               artificially propagated

                               specimens of cultivars of

                               Euphorbia ‘Milii’ when

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                                   Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                           138

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                         .                             .       .

                                              Appendices

          I                                   II                            III

                                           they are traded in
                                           shipments of 100 or more
                                           plants and readily
                                           recognizable as artificially
                                           propagated specimens, are
                                           not subject to the
                                           provisions of the
                                           Convention)

          2. Euphorbia
                 ambovombensis

          2A. Euphorbia
                    bupleurifolia

          3. Euphorbia
                 capsaintemariensis

          4. Euphorbia cremersii
                 (Includes the forma
                 viridifolia and the var.
                 rakotozafyi)

          5. Euphorbia
                 cylindrifolia (Includes
                 the ssp. tuberifera)

          6. Euphorbia decaryi
                 (Includes the vars.
                 ampanihyensis,
                 robinsonii and
                 spirosticha)

          7. Euphorbia francoisii

          8. Euphorbia moratii
                 (Includes the vars.
                 antsingiensis,
                 bemarahensis and
                 multiflora)

          9. Euphorbia
                 parvicyathophora

          10. Euphorbia
                   quartziticola

          11. Euphorbia
                   tulearensis

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                         Endangered Species

139      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.

         THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                           .                        .                      .

                                 Appendices

         I                       II                      III

XXIII FAGACEAE (Mongolian oak)

     1.                                               Quercus

                                                      mongolica #5

                                                      (Russian

                                                      Federation)

XXIV FOUQUIERIACEAE (Ocotillos)

     1.                      Fouquieria columnaris#4

     2. Fouquieria
            fasciculata

     3. Fouquieria purpusii

XXIV(A) GERANIACEAE (Geraniums)

     1.                                               Monsonia herrei

                                                      (South Africa)

     2.                                               Monsonia

                                                      multifida

                                                      (South Africa)

     3.                                               Monsonia

                                                      patersonii

                                                      (South Africa)

     4.                                               Pelargonium

                                                      crassicaule

                                                      (South Africa)

     5.                                               Pelargonium triste

                                                      (South Africa)

XXV GNETACEAE (Gnetum)

     1.                                               Gnetum montanum

                                                      #1 (Nepal)

XXVI JUGLANDACEAE (Gavilan)

     1.                      Oreomunnea

                             pterocarpa#4

XXVII LAURACEAE (Brazilian rosewood)

     1.                      Aniba rosaeodora#12

XXVIII LEGUMINOSAE (Fabaceae) (Afrormosia, cristobal, palisander, rosewood,
               sandalwood)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
2020 Ed.             Endangered Species                                  140
               (Import and Export) Act 2006
                                                                         .
               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                   .                           .

                                        Appendices

               I                                  II                III

          1A.                        Afzelia spp.#17 (Only the

                                     populations of Africa; no

                                     other population is

                                     included in the

                                     Appendices)

          1.                         Dalbergia spp.#15 (Except

                                     for the species listed in

                                     Appendix I)

          2. Dalbergia nigra         Dipteryx spp. #17
          3.                         Guibourtia demeusei #15
          4.

          5.                         Guibourtia

                                     pellegriniana #15

          6.                         Guibourtia tessmannii #15

          7.                         Paubrasilia echinata #10

          8.                         Pericopsis elata #17

          9.                         Platymiscium

                                     parviflorum #4

          10.                        Pterocarpus spp.#17

                                     (Except Pterocarpus

                                     santalinus which is

                                     included in Appendix II

                                     with annotation #7; only

                                     the populations of Africa;

                                     no other population is

                                     included in the

                                     Appendices)

          11.                        Pterocarpus santalinus #7

          12. [Deleted by S 92/2023
                   wef 23/02/2023]

          13.                        Senna meridionalis

XXIX LILIACEAE (Aloes)               Aloe spp.#4 (Except the
           1.                        species included in
                                     Appendix I. Also excludes
                                     Aloe vera, also referenced

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          Endangered Species

141  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                           2020 Ed.
                                                                                .
     THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                                  III
..                                  .                          .

                                       Appendices

     I                                 II

                                    as Aloe barbadensis which
                                    is not included in the
                                    Appendices)

     2. Aloe albida

     3. Aloe albiflora

     4. Aloe alfredii

     5. Aloe bakeri

     6. Aloe bellatula

     7. Aloe calcairophila

     8. Aloe compressa
            (Includes the vars.
            paucituberculata,
            rugosquamosa and
            schistophila)

     9. Aloe delphinensis

     10. Aloe descoingsii

     11. Aloe fragilis

     12. Aloe haworthioides
              (Includes the var.
              aurantiaca)

     13. Aloe helenae

     14. Aloe laeta (Includes
              the var. maniaensis)

     15. Aloe parallelifolia

     16. Aloe parvula

     17. Aloe pillansii

     18. Aloe polyphylla

     19. Aloe rauhii

     20. Aloe suzannae

     21. Aloe versicolor

     22. Aloe vossii

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                     142

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                               .                          .                   .

                                         Appendices

               I                              II                     III

XXX            MAGNOLIACEAE (Magnolias)

          1.                                                Magnolia liliifera

                                                            var. obovata #1

                                                            (Nepal)

XXXI MALVACEAE (Baobab)

          1.                     Adansonia grandidieri #16

XXXII MELIACEAE (Mahoganies, West Indian cedar)

          1.                     Cedrela spp.#6 (Only the

                                 populations of the

                                 Neotropics; no other

                                 population is included in

                                 the Appendices)

          1A.                    Khaya spp.#17 (Only the

                                 populations of Africa; no

                                 other population is

                                 included in the

                                 Appendices)

          2.                     Swietenia humilis#4

          3.                     Swietenia macrophylla#6

                                 (Only the populations of

                                 the Neotropics; no other

                                 population is included in

                                 the Appendices)

          4.                     Swietenia mahagoni#5

XXXIII NEPENTHACEAE (Pitcher‑plants (Old World))

          1.                     Nepenthes spp.#4 (Except

                                 the species included in

                                 Appendix I)

          2. Nepenthes khasiana

          3. Nepenthes rajah

XXXIV OLEACEAE (Manchurian ash)

          1.                                                Fraxinus

                                                            mandshurica #5

                                                            (Russian

                                                            Federation)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                          Endangered Species

143      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.
                                                                           .
         THE SCHEDULE — continued
                                                             III
..                               .                        .

                                    Appendices

         I                                   II

XXXV ORCHIDACEAE (Orchids)

     1.                          ORCHIDACEAE

                                 spp. 10 #4

                                 (Except the species
                                 included in Appendix I)

         (For all of the
         following Appendix-I
         species, seedling or
         tissue cultures
         obtained in vitro and
         transported in sterile
         containers are not
         subject to the
         provisions of the
         Convention only if the
         specimens meet the
         definition of
         ‘artificially
         propagated’ agreed by
         the Conference of the
         Parties)

     2. Aerangis ellisii

     2A. Cattleya jongheana

     2B. Cattleya lobata

     3. Dendrobium
            cruentum

     4. Mexipedium
            xerophyticum

     5. [Deleted by
            S 777/2019]

     6. Paphiopedilum spp.

     7. Peristeria elata

     8. Phragmipedium spp.

     9. Renanthera
            imschootiana

XXXVI OROBANCHACEAE (Desert cistanche)

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

2020 Ed.       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  144

               THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                        .                   .

                                          Appendices

               I                          II                III

          1.                    Cistanche deserticola#4

XXXVII PALMAE (Arecaceae) (Palms)

          1.                    Beccariophoenix

                                madagascariensis#4

          2.                    Dypsis decaryi#4

          3. Dypsis decipiens

          3A. Jubaea chilensis

          4.                    Lemurophoenix halleuxii

          5.                                             Lodoicea

                                                         maldivica#13

                                                         (Seychelles)

          6.                    Marojejya darianii

          7.                    Ravenea louvelii

          8.                    Ravenea rivularis

          9.                    Satranala decussilvae

          10.                   Voanioala gerardii

XXXVIII PAPAVERACEAE (Himalayan poppy)                   Meconopsis regia#1
                                                         (Nepal)
           1.

XXXIX PASSIFLORACEAE (Passion‑flowers)

          1.                    Adenia firingalavensis

          2.                    Adenia olaboensis

          2A.                                            Adenia spinosa

                                                         (South Africa)

          3.                    Adenia subsessilifolia

XL             PEDALIACEAE (Sesames)

          1.                    Uncarina grandidieri

          2.                    Uncarina stellulifera

XLI            PINACEAE (Firs and pines)

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Endangered Species

145       (Import and Export) Act 2006                                    2020 Ed.

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                              .                         .                   .

                                     Appendices

          I                          II                            III

      1. Abies guatemalensis                              Pinus koraiensis#5
      2.                                                  (Russian
                                                          Federation)

XLII      PODOCARPACEAE (Podocarps)

      1.                                                  Podocarpus

                                                          neriifolius#1

                                                          (Nepal)

      2.                        Podocarpus parlatorei

                                (Zero export quota for

                                wild-taken specimens for

                                commercial purposes)

XLIII PORTULACACEAE (Lewisias, portulacas, purslanes)

      1. [Deleted by S 88/2026
             wef 05/03/2026]

      2. [Deleted by S 88/2026
             wef 05/03/2026]

      3.                        Lewisia serrata#4

      4.                                                  Portulacaria

                                                          pygmaea

                                                          (South Africa)

XLIV PRIMULACEAE (Cyclamens)

      1.                        Cyclamen spp.11 #4

XLV RANUNCULACEAE (Yellow adonis, yellow root)

      1.                        Adonis vernalis#2

      2.                        Hydrastis canadensis#8

XLVI ROSACEAE (African cherry)

      1.                        Prunus africana#4

XLVII RUBIACEAE (Ayugue)

      1. Balmea stormiae

XLVIII SANTALACEAE (African sandalwood)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                              146

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                           .       .

                                          Appendices

              I                                  II                III

          1.                        Osyris lanceolata#2 (Only

                                    the populations of

                                    Burundi, Ethiopia, Kenya,

                                    Rwanda, Uganda and the

                                    United Republic of

                                    Tanzania; no other

                                    population is included in

                                    the Appendices)

XLIX SARRACENIACEAE (Pitcher‑plants (New World))

          1.                        Sarracenia spp.#4 (Except

                                    the species included in

                                    Appendix I)

          2. Sarracenia oreophila

          3. Sarracenia rubra ssp.
                 alabamensis

          4. Sarracenia rubra ssp.
                 jonesii

L             SCROPHULARIACEAE (Kutki)

          1.                        Picrorhiza kurrooa#2

                                    (Excludes Picrorhiza

                                    scrophulariiflora)

LI            STANGERIACEAE (Stangerias)

          1.                        Bowenia spp. #4

          2. Stangeria eriopus

LII           TAXACEAE (Yews)

          1.                        Taxus chinensis and

                                    infraspecific taxa of this
                                    species#2

          2.                        Taxus cuspidata and

                                    infraspecific taxa of this
                                    species 12 #2

          3.                        Taxus fuana and

                                    infraspecific taxa of this
                                    species#2

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
              Endangered Species

147        (Import and Export) Act 2006                                  2020 Ed.

           THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                             .                           .                  .

                                  Appendices

           I                              II                  III

       4.                      Taxus sumatrana and

                               infraspecific taxa of this
                               species#2

       5.                      Taxus wallichiana#2

LIII       THYMELAEACEAE (Aquilariaceae) (Agarwood, ramin)

       1.                      Aquilaria spp.#14

       2.                      Gonystylus spp.#4

       3.                      Gyrinops spp.#14

LIV        TROCHODENDRACEAE (Tetracentraceae) (Tetracentron)

       1.                                                  Tetracentron

                                                           sinense#1 (Nepal)

LV         VALERIANACEAE (Himalayan spikenard)

       1.                      Nardostachys

                               grandiflora#2

LVI        VITACEAE (Grapes)

       1.                      Cyphostemma

                               elephantopus

       2.                      Cyphostemma laza

       3.                      Cyphostemma

                               montagnacii

LVII       WELWITSCHIACEAE (Welwitschia)

       1.                      Welwitschia mirabilis#4

LVIII      ZAMIACEAE (Cycads)

       1.                      ZAMIACEAE spp.#4

                               (Except the species

                               included in Appendix I)

       2. Ceratozamia spp.

       3. Encephalartos spp.

       4. Microcycas calocoma

       5. Zamia restrepoi

LIX        ZINGIBERACEAE (Ginger lily, Natal ginger)

       Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 Endangered Species

2020 Ed.      (Import and Export) Act 2006                                                               148

              THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                                  .                               .                                    .

                                          Appendices

              I                                     II                 III

          1.                        Hedychium

                                    philippinense#4

          2.                        Siphonochilus

                                    aethiopicus

                                    (Only the populations of

                                    Eswatini, Mozambique,

                                    South Africa and

                                    Zimbabwe; no other

                                    population is included in

                                    the Appendices)

LX            ZYGOPHYLLACEAE (Lignum‑vitae)

          1.                        Bulnesia sarmientoi#11

          2.                        Guaiacum spp.#2

Notes:

    9 Artificially propagated specimens of the following hybrids and/or cultivars are not subject to
      the provisions of the Convention:

              – Hatiora x graeseri

              – Schlumbergera x buckleyi

              – Schlumbergera russelliana x Schlumbergera truncata

              – Schlumbergera orssichiana x Schlumbergera truncata

              – Schlumbergera opuntioides x Schlumbergera truncata

              – Schlumbergera truncata (cultivars)

                      – Cactaceae spp. colour mutants grafted on the following grafting stocks:
                         Harrisia ‘Jusbertii’, Hylocereus trigonus or Hylocereus undatus

                      – Opuntia microdasys (cultivars).

10Artificially propagated hybrids of the following genera are not subject to the provisions of the
Convention, if conditions, as indicated under (a) and (b), are met: Cymbidium, Dendrobium,
Phalaenopsis and Vanda:

              (a) Specimens are readily recognizable as artificially propagated and do not show
                   any signs of having been collected in the wild such as mechanical damage or
                   strong dehydration resulting from collection, irregular growth and
                   heterogeneous size and shape within a taxon and shipment, algae or other
                   epiphyllous organisms adhering to leaves, or damage by insects or other pests;
                   and

              (b) (i) when shipped in non‑flowering state, the specimens must be traded in
                       shipments consisting of individual containers (such as cartons, boxes, crates
                       or individual shelves of CC‑containers) each containing 20 or more plants of the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
        Endangered Species

149  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             2020 Ed.

     THE SCHEDULE — continued

..      .                          .                                                                         .

           Appendices

     I     II                         III

     same hybrid; the plants within each container must exhibit a high degree of
     uniformity and healthiness; and the shipment must be accompanied by
     documentation, such as an invoice, which clearly states the number of plants
     of each hybrid; or

     (ii) when shipped in flowering state, with at least one fully open flower per
          specimen, no minimum number of specimens per shipment is required but
          specimens must be professionally processed for commercial retail sale, e.g.
          labelled with printed labels or packaged with printed packages indicating the
          name of the hybrid and the country of final processing. This should be clearly
          visible and allow easy verification.

        Plants not clearly qualifying for the exemption must be accompanied by appropriate CITES
        documents.

     11 Artificially propagated specimens of cultivars of Cyclamen persicum are not subject to the
        provisions of the Convention. However, the exemption does not apply to such specimens
        traded as dormant tubers.

     12 Artificially propagated hybrids and cultivars of Taxus cuspidata, live, in pots or other small
        containers, each consignment being accompanied by a label or document stating the name of
        the taxon or taxa and the text ‘artificially propagated’, are not subject to the provisions of the
        Convention.

     #1 All parts and derivatives, except:

                    (a) seeds, spores and pollen (including pollinia);
                    (b) seedling or tissue cultures obtained in vitro, transported in sterile containers;
                    (c) cut flowers of artificially propagated plants; and
                    (d) fruits, and parts and derivatives thereof, of artificially propagated plants of the

                         genus Vanilla.
     #2 All parts and derivatives except:

                    (a) seeds and pollen; and

                    (b) finished products packaged and ready for retail trade.
     #3 Whole and sliced roots and parts of roots, excluding manufactured parts or derivatives, such

        as powders, pills, extracts, tonics, teas and confectionery.
     #4 All parts and derivatives, except:

     (a) seeds (including seedpods of Orchidaceae), spores and pollen (including
          pollinia). The exemption does not apply to seeds from Cactaceae spp. exported
          from Mexico, and to seeds from Beccariophoenix madagascariensis and Dypsis
          decaryi exported from Madagascar;

     (b) seedling or tissue cultures obtained in vitro transported in sterile containers;

     (c) cut flowers of artificially propagated plants;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
             Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                                                                     150

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

..           .                                                  .                                          .

                                              Appendices

          I                                         II                       III

          (d) fruits, and parts and derivatives thereof, of naturalized or artificially propagated
               plants of the genus Vanilla (Orchidaceae) and of the family Cactaceae;

          (e) stems, flowers, and parts and derivatives thereof, of naturalized or artificially
              propagated plants of the genera Opuntia subgenus Opuntia and Selenicereus
              (Cactaceae);

          (f) finished products packaged and ready for retail trade of Aloe ferox and
              Euphorbia antisyphilitica; and

                   (g) finished products derived from artificial propagation packaged and ready for
                        retail trade of cosmetics containing parts and derivatives of Bletilla striata,
                        Cycnoches cooperi, Gastrodia elata, Phalaenopsis amabilis or P. lobbii.

    #5 Logs, sawn wood and veneer sheets.

    #6 Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets and plywood.

    #7 Logs, woodchips, powder and extracts.

    #8 Underground parts (i.e. roots, rhizomes): whole, parts and powdered.

    #9 All parts and derivatives except those bearing a label:

        “Produced from Hoodia spp. material obtained through controlled harvesting and production
        under the terms of an agreement with the relevant CITES Management Authority of
        [Botswana under agreement No. BW/xxxxxx] [Namibia under agreement No. NA/xxxxxx]
        [South Africa under agreement No. ZA/xxxxxx]”.

    #10 All parts and derivatives, except finished musical instruments, finished musical instrument
        accessories and finished musical instrument parts for non-commercial trade only for the
        purpose of paid and unpaid performance, personal use, display, loan, competition, teaching,
        appraisal, or repair, provided that this does not change the ownership and that such transport is
        not for sale, transfer or disposal of the specimen outside of the owner’s usual State of
        residence. Zero quota for wild-harvested specimens (source code W) traded for commercial
        purposes.

    #11 Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, plywood, powder and extracts. Finished products containing
        such extracts as ingredients, including fragrances, are not considered to be covered by this
        annotation.

    #12 Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, plywood and extracts. Finished products containing such
        extracts as ingredients, including fragrances, are not considered to be covered by this
        annotation.

    #13 The kernel (also known as ‘endosperm’, ‘pulp’ or ‘copra’) and any derivatives thereof, except
        finished products packaged and ready for retail trade.

    #14 All parts and derivatives except:

          (a) seeds and pollen;
          (b) seedling or tissue cultures obtained in vitro, transported in sterile containers;
          (c) fruits;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                  Endangered Species

151               (Import and Export) Act 2006          2020 Ed.

                  THE SCHEDULE — continued

..                .                             .                                                         .

                     Appendices

     I               II                            III

     (d) leaves;

     (e) exhausted agarwood powder, including compressed powder in all shapes; and

                      (f) finished products packaged and ready for retail trade, this exemption does not
                          apply to wood chips, beads, prayer beads and carvings.

     #15 All parts and derivatives, except:

                     (a) leaves, flowers, pollen, fruits, and seeds;

                     (b) finished products to a maximum weight of wood of the listed species of up to
                          10 kg per shipment;

                     (c) finished musical instruments, finished musical instrument parts and finished
                          musical instrument accessories;

                     (d) parts and derivatives of Dalbergia cochinchinensis, which are covered by
                          Annotation #4; and

                     (e) parts and derivatives of Dalbergia spp. originating and exported from Mexico,
                          which are covered by Annotation #6.

     #16 Seeds, fruits and oils.

     #17 Logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, plywood and transformed wood.

     #18 Extracts (including resins, gums and essential oils) and powder, except the following finished
         products, packaged and ready for retail trade: finished tablets, capsules, pills, perfumes,
         cosmetics, solutions, emulsions or suspensions (such as infused oils, hydrolates, tinctures),
         and manufactured incense products (such as incense sticks and incense cones).

                                                                         [S 88/2026 wef 05/03/2026]
                                                                       [S 100/2025 wef 07/02/2025]
                                                                       [S 885/2024 wef 25/11/2024]
                                                                       [S 427/2024 wef 25/05/2024]
                                                                       [S 761/2023 wef 25/11/2023]
                                                                         [S 92/2023 wef 23/02/2023]
                                                                       [S 473/2022 wef 22/06/2022]
                                                                       [S 473/2022 wef 13/06/2022]
                                            [S 312/2010; S 590/2010; S 214/2011; S 666/2011;
                                             S 139/2012; S 478/2012; S 349/2013; S 630/2013;
                                                S 1/2014; S 416/2014; S 592/2014; S 776/2014;
                                              S 57/2015; S 103/2016; S 595/2016; S 737/2016;

     Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
          Endangered Species

2020 Ed.  (Import and Export) Act 2006                             152

          THE SCHEDULE — continued

                               S 155/2017; S 563/2017; S 777/2019; S 706/2020;
                                                                S 93/2021; S 380/2021]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

                 ENDANGERED SPECIES
           (IMPORT AND EXPORT) ACT 2006

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 5 of 2006 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act 2006

Bill           : 43/2005

First Reading  : 21 November 2005

Second and Third Readings : 17 January 2006

Commencement   : 1 March 2006

2. G.N. No. S 290/2006 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2006

Commencement   : 14 June 2006

3. G.N. No. S 103/2007 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2007

Commencement   : 4 March 2007

4. G.N. No. S 152/2007 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Notification 2007

Commencement   : 3 May 2007

5. G.N. No. S 477/2007 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 3)
                                   Notification 2007

Commencement   : 13 September 2007

6. 2008 Revised Edition — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Chapter 92A)

Operation      : 1 January 2008

7. G.N. No. S 64/2008 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                 (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2008

Commencement   : 12 February 2008

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                ii

8. G.N. No. S 332/2008 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                   Notification 2008

Commencement    : 1 July 2008

9. G.N. No. S 222/2009 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2009

Commencement    : 22 May 2009

10. G.N. No. S 312/2010 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2010

Commencement    : 23 June 2010 (paragraph 2)
                      24 June 2010 (paragraph 3)

11. G.N. No. S 590/2010 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2010

Commencement    : 14 October 2010

12. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
     (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 35 of the Sixth Schedule to
     the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 35 of the Sixth Schedule)

13. G.N. No. S 214/2011 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2011

Commencement    : 27 April 2011

14. G.N. No. S 666/2011 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2011

Commencement    : 22 December 2011

15. G.N. No. S 139/2012 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2012

Commencement    : 3 April 2012

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
              iii

16. G.N. No. S 478/2012 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2012

Commencement  : 25 September 2012

17. G.N. No. S 349/2013 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2013

Commencement  : 12 June 2013

18. G.N. No. S 630/2013 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2013

Commencement  : 1 October 2013

19. G.N. No. S 1/2014 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                 (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2014

Commencement  : 2 January 2014

20. G.N. No. S 416/2014 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2014

Commencement  : 24 June 2014

21. G.N. No. S 592/2014 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 3)
                                    Notification 2014

Commencement  : 14 September 2014

22. G.N. No. S 776/2014 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 4)
                                    Notification 2014

Commencement  : 1 December 2014

23. G.N. No. S 57/2015 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2015

Commencement  : 5 February 2015

24. G.N. No. S 103/2016 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2016

Commencement  : 10 March 2016 (except paragraph 2(b)
                    and (c))
                    9 May 2016 (paragraph 2(b) and (c))

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
               iv

25. G.N. No. S 595/2016 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2016

Commencement   : 21 November 2016

26. G.N. No. S 737/2016 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 3)
                                    Notification 2016

Commencement   : 2 January 2017

27. G.N. No. S 155/2017 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2017

Commencement   : 4 April 2017

28. G.N. No. S 563/2017 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2017

Commencement   : 4 October 2017

29. Act 10 of 2019 — National Parks Board (Amendment) Act 2019
     (Amendments made by section 11 of the above Act)

Bill           : 4/2019

First Reading  : 15 January 2019

Second and Third Readings : 12 February 2019

Commencement   : 1 April 2019 (section 11)

30. G.N. No. S 777/2019 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2019

Commencement   : 26 November 2019

31. G.N. No. S 706/2020 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2020

Commencement   : 28 August 2020

32. G.N. No. S 93/2021 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                   (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2021

Commencement   : 14 February 2021

33. G.N. No. S 380/2021 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2021

Commencement   : 22 June 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      v

34. 2020 Revised Edition — Endangered Species
                                     (Import and Export) Act 2006

Operation             : 31 December 2021

35. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021
     (Amendments made by Part 7 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

Second and Third Readings : 14 September 2021

Commencement          : 1 April 2022

36. G.N. No. S 473/2022 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    2006 (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Notification 2022

Date of commencement  : 13 June 2022
                            22 June 2022

37. Act 21 of 2022 — Endangered Species (Import and Export)
                             (Amendment) Act 2022

     (Amendments made by the above Act)

Bill                  : 14/2022

First Reading         : 9 May 2022

Second and Third Readings : 4 July 2022

Commencement          : 1 November 2022

38. G.N. No. S 92/2023 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act 2006
                                 (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2023

Date of commencement  : 23 February 2023

39. G.N. No. S 761/2023 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    2006 (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2023

Date of commencement  : 25 November 2023

40. G.N. No. S 427/2024 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    2006 (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Notification 2024

Date of commencement  : 25 May 2024

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
                      vi

41. G.N. No. S 885/2024 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    2006 (Amendment of Schedule) (No. 2)
                                    Notification 2024

Date of commencement  : 25 November 2024

42. G.N. No. S 100/2025 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act
                                    2006 (Amendment of Schedule)
                                    Notification 2025

Date of commencement  : 7 February 2025

43. G.N. No. S 88/2026 — Endangered Species (Import and Export) Act 2006
                                 (Amendment of Schedule) Notification 2026

Date of commencement  : 5 March 2026

44. Act 15 of 2026 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2026

Bill                  : 12/2026

First Reading         : 7 April 2026

Second and Third Readings : 7 May 2026

Commencement          : 1 July 2026

.                         Abbreviations

G.N.           (updated on 29 August 2022)
G.N. Sp.       Gazette Notification
L.A.           Gazette Notification (Special Supplement)
L.N.           Legislative Assembly
M.             Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian)
               Malaya/Malaysia (including Federated Malay States,
Parl.          Malayan Union, Federation of Malaya and Federation of
S              Malaysia)
S.I.           Parliament
S (N.S.)       Subsidiary Legislation
S.S.G.G.       Statutory Instrument (United Kingdom)
S.S.G.G. (E)   Subsidiary Legislation (New Series)
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette
               Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/7/2026
