THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                      APOSTILLE ACT 2020

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                                   2020 Ed.

         Apostille Act 2020

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                               PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title
         Interpretation
     1.  Purpose
     2.  Act binds Government
     3.
     4.

                                        PART 2

                              PROOF OF ORIGIN OF
                       FOREIGN PUBLIC DOCUMENTS

 5. Application of this Part
 6. What is a foreign public document
 7. What is meant by the origin of a foreign public document
 8. What is legalisation of a foreign public document
 9. Legalisation not required for foreign public documents
10. What is a Convention certificate (also known as an apostille)
11. Effect of Convention certificate if used
12. Use of Convention certificate generally not mandatory
13. Other modes of proof, etc., not affected

                                        PART 3

                                CERTIFICATION OF
                     SINGAPORE PUBLIC DOCUMENTS

14. What is a Singapore public document
15. What is a competent authority
16. Certification of public document executed in Singapore
17. Grounds for refusing to issue certificate
18. Register of certificates

                               1

                                                                        31.12.2021
2        Apostille Act 2020                                         2020 Ed.

         PART 4

         MISCELLANEOUS

Section  Amendment of Second Schedule
   19.
   20.   Regulations
         First Schedule — The Hague Convention Abolishing the

                                   Requirement of Legalisation for
                                   Foreign Public Documents
         Second Schedule — Competent authorities for certifying
                                   Singapore public documents

An Act to give effect to the Hague Convention Abolishing the
  Requirement of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents, done
  at the Hague on 5 October 1961, and for connected purposes.

                                          [20 January 2021: Section 21(2);
                               16 September 2021: Except section 21(2)]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Apostille Act 2020.

Interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “Convention” means the Hague Convention Abolishing the
         Requirement of Legalisation for Foreign Public Documents,
         done at the Hague on 5 October 1961, the English text of
         which is set out in the First Schedule;
      “Convention State” means a State Party to the Convention other
         than Singapore, but does not include —
              (a) any State Party that objected to Singapore’s accession
                   to the Convention; and

              (b) any State Party whose accession to the Convention
                   Singapore objected to;
2020 Ed.  Apostille Act 2020        3

“Model Certificate” means the model certificate set out in the
   Annex to the Convention.

Purpose
 3.—(1) The purpose of this Act is to give effect to the Convention.
 (2) Part 2 —

       (a) exempts foreign public documents (as defined in that Part)
            from any requirement of legalisation; and

       (b) provides for the effect of certificates issued under the
            Convention and facilitates (but does not require) their use.

 (3) Part 3 provides for certificates to be issued under the
Convention for Singapore public documents (as defined in that Part).

Act binds Government
 4. This Act binds the Government.

                                    PART 2

                          PROOF OF ORIGIN OF
                   FOREIGN PUBLIC DOCUMENTS

Application of this Part

 5. This Part applies to a foreign public document sought to be
produced in Singapore for any purpose, including —

       (a) the purposes of proceedings in any court or tribunal; and

       (b) the purposes of exercising any power or right, or
            performing any function, duty or obligation, under or
            pursuant to any written law or rule of law.

                                    31.12.2021
4  Apostille Act 2020                            2020 Ed.

What is a foreign public document

   6. In this Part, “foreign public document” —
         (a) means —

   (i) a document executed in the territory of a Convention
       State and falling within any of the following
       categories:

   (A) a document emanating from an authority or
        official connected with the courts or tribunals
        of that State, including a document emanating
        from a public prosecutor, a clerk of a court or a
        process-server;

   (B) an administrative document;

   (C) a notarial act;

   (D) an official certificate that is placed on a
        document signed by a person in his or her
        private capacity (for example, an official
        certificate recording the registration of a
        document or the fact that the document was
        in existence on a certain date, or an official or a
        notarial authentication of a signature); or

   (ii) a document (including a document that is not signed,
        sealed or stamped) that —

   (A) emanates from a Convention State; and

   (B) is treated as a public document by the law of
        that State; but

   (b) does not include a document executed by a diplomatic or
        consular agent.

What is meant by the origin of a foreign public document

 7. In this Part, a reference to the origin of a foreign public
document, or of a document purporting to be a foreign public
document, is a reference to the following aspects of the document:

       (a) the authenticity of the signature on the document;
2020 Ed.  Apostille Act 2020  5

(b) the capacity in which the person signing the document has
     acted;

          (c) where appropriate, the identity of the seal or stamp that the
              document bears.

What is legalisation of a foreign public document

 8. In this Part, “legalisation”, in relation to a foreign public
document, means the formality by which the diplomatic or consular
agents of Singapore certify the origin of a foreign public document.

Legalisation not required for foreign public documents

 9.—(1) Legalisation is not required, and may not be performed, in
relation to a foreign public document.

 (2) This section applies despite any written law or rule of law to the
contrary.

What is a Convention certificate (also known as an apostille)

 10. In this Part, “Convention certificate”, in relation to a foreign
public document or a document purporting to be a foreign public
document, means a certificate issued —

       (a) to certify the document for the purposes of the Convention;
            and

       (b) by an authority that, at the time of issuing the certificate, is
            designated by the State in which territory the document
            was executed, or from which the document emanates, as
            competent to issue the certificate in respect of the
            document.

Effect of Convention certificate if used

 11.—(1) This section applies if a document purporting to be a
Convention certificate (called in this section the purported certificate)
is placed on or attached to a document purporting to be a foreign
public document (called in this section the certified document).

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the origin of the certified document is
presumed to be sufficiently proven.

                              31.12.2021
6  Apostille Act 2020                                   2020 Ed.

   (3) Subsection (2) does not apply —

   (a) if the contrary is proven;

   (b) if it is proven that the certified document is not in fact a
        foreign public document;

   (c) if it is proven that the purported certificate is not in fact a
       Convention certificate in relation to the certified
       document; or

   (d) if, and to the extent that, it is proven that —

   (i) the purported certificate suffers from any of the
       following defects:

   (A) the certificate is not in, or substantially in, the
        form of the Model Certificate;

   (B) any information required by the Model
        Certificate is omitted (unless the omitted
        information is not applicable to the certified
        document);

   (C) the purported certificate has been damaged,
        tampered with or modified;

   (D) the purported certificate is no longer placed on
        or attached to the certified document; and

   (ii) the defect affects the authenticity or reliability of the
        purported certificate in relation to the certified
        document.

Use of Convention certificate generally not mandatory

 12.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a person seeking to prove the
origin of a foreign public document —

       (a) is not required to do so by means of a Convention
            certificate; and

       (b) is not required to comply with any more rigorous formality.
2020 Ed.  Apostille Act 2020  7

 (2) A person seeking to prove the origin of a specified foreign
public document —

(a) may be required to do so by means of a Convention
     certificate; but

(b) is not required to comply with any more rigorous formality.

 (3) This section applies despite any written law or rule of law to the
contrary.

(4) In this section —

    “more rigorous formality” means a formality that is more
        rigorous than placing a Convention certificate on, or
        attaching a Convention certificate to, a foreign public
        document;

    “specified foreign public document” means a foreign public
        document falling within any of the following classes:

          (a) any class of documents for which legalisation is or
               may be required by or under any written law or any
               practice before the date of Singapore’s accession to
               the Convention;

          (b) any class of documents that did not exist before the
               date of Singapore’s accession to the Convention.

Other modes of proof, etc., not affected

 13. Nothing in this Part prevents a foreign public document (or any
aspect thereof) from being proven, produced, certified or accepted in
any manner permitted by any other law.

                              31.12.2021
8               Apostille Act 2020                       2020 Ed.

                PART 3

             CERTIFICATION OF
   SINGAPORE PUBLIC DOCUMENTS

What is a Singapore public document
 14. In this Part, “Singapore public document” —

   (a) means —

   (i) a document executed in Singapore and falling within
       any of the following categories:

   (A) a document emanating from an authority or
        official connected with the courts or tribunals
        of Singapore, including a document emanating
        from a public prosecutor, a clerk of a court or a
        process-server;

   (B) an administrative document;

   (C) a notarial act;

   (D) an official certificate that is placed on a
        document signed by a person in his or her
        private capacity (for example, an official
        certificate recording the registration of a
        document or the fact that the document was
        in existence on a certain date, or an official or a
        notarial authentication of a signature); or

   (ii) a document (including a document that is not signed,
        sealed or stamped) that is prescribed to be a
        Singapore public document; but

   (b) does not include any of the following documents:

   (i) a document executed by a diplomatic or consular
       agent;

   (ii) a prescribed private document.

What is a competent authority

 15. In this Part, an authority specified in the first column of the
Second Schedule is a competent authority in relation to the Singapore
2020 Ed.  Apostille Act 2020  9

public documents specified opposite the authority in the second
column of that Schedule.

Certification of public document executed in Singapore
 16.—(1) Subject to section 17, a competent authority must issue a

certificate for a Singapore public document on the request of —

       (a) the person who signed the document; or

       (b) any bearer of the document.
 (2) The certificate must be —

       (a) numbered and dated in the prescribed manner;

       (b) in the form of the Model Certificate, subject to any
            prescribed modifications; and

       (c) placed on, or attached to, the Singapore public document or
            a copy thereof in the prescribed manner.

 (3) Regulations may provide for a certificate to be issued in
electronic form, whether or not the underlying public document is
also in electronic form.

Grounds for refusing to issue certificate
 17.—(1) An authority must refuse to issue a certificate for a

document under section 16 if any of the following grounds apply:

       (a) the document is not a Singapore public document;

       (b) there are reasonable grounds for the authority to believe
            that the document is forged or falsified;

       (c) the authority is not competent to issue the certificate;

       (d) the person requesting for the certificate fails to provide any
            prescribed information or any other information required
            by the authority;

       (e) the prescribed fee is not paid;

        (f) any prescribed ground.

 (2) A competent authority may refuse to issue a certificate for a
public document if any of the following grounds apply:

                              31.12.2021
10  Apostille Act 2020          2020 Ed.

    (a) the authority is unable to verify the authenticity of the
         signature, seal or stamp on the document;

    (b) any prescribed ground.

Register of certificates

 18.—(1) A competent authority must keep a register of every
certificate it issues.

 (2) The register must be kept in the prescribed manner and must
record, in respect of each certificate —

       (a) the number and date of the certificate;

       (b) the name of the person who signed the certified Singapore
            public document and the capacity in which he or she acted;

       (c) if applicable, the name of the authority that affixed the seal
            or stamp on the certified Singapore public document; and

       (d) any other information that may be prescribed.

 (3) Regulations must provide for the means by which a person may
verify the authenticity of a document purporting to be a certificate
issued by a competent authority.

 (4) Regulations may provide for a joint register to be kept by 2 or
more competent authorities.

                                    PART 4

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Amendment of Second Schedule
 19.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend the

Second Schedule.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), an order under that subsection
may specify, in the second column of the Second Schedule —

       (a) all or a specified class of Singapore public documents
            opposite an authority in the first column; and

       (b) the same class of Singapore public documents opposite
            2 or more authorities in the first column.
2020 Ed.     Apostille Act 2020                            11

Regulations

20. The Minister may make regulations —

(a) to prescribe any matter required or permitted to be
     prescribed under Part 3;

(b) to prescribe any fees for the purposes of Part 3; and

          (c) generally for the purposes of this Act.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                            Section 2

                THE HAGUE CONVENTION ABOLISHING THE
                     REQUIREMENT OF LEGALISATION FOR
                          FOREIGN PUBLIC DOCUMENTS

The States signatory to the present Convention,

Desiring to abolish the requirement of diplomatic or consular legalisation for
foreign public documents,

Have resolved to conclude a Convention to this effect and have agreed upon the
following provisions:

                                         ARTICLE 1

The present Convention shall apply to public documents which have been
executed in the territory of one Contracting State and which have to be produced
in the territory of another Contracting State.

For the purposes of the present Convention, the following are deemed to be public
documents:

        (a) documents emanating from an authority or an official connected with
             the courts or tribunals of the State, including those emanating from a
             public prosecutor, a clerk of a court or a process-server (“huissier de
             justice”);

        (b) administrative documents;

        (c) notarial acts;

        (d) official certificates which are placed on documents signed by persons
             in their private capacity, such as official certificates recording the
             registration of a document or the fact that it was in existence on a
             certain date and official and notarial authentications of signatures.

                                                       31.12.2021
12  Apostille Act 2020                                           2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

However, the present Convention shall not apply:

    (a) to documents executed by diplomatic or consular agents;

    (b) to administrative documents dealing directly with commercial or
         customs operations.

    ARTICLE 2

Each Contracting State shall exempt from legalisation documents to which the
present Convention applies and which have to be produced in its territory. For the
purposes of the present Convention, legalisation means only the formality by
which the diplomatic or consular agents of the country in which the document has
to be produced certify the authenticity of the signature, the capacity in which the
person signing the document has acted and, where appropriate, the identity of the
seal or stamp which it bears.

    ARTICLE 3

The only formality that may be required in order to certify the authenticity of the
signature, the capacity in which the person signing the document has acted and,
where appropriate, the identity of the seal or stamp which it bears, is the addition
of the certificate described in Article 4, issued by the competent authority of the
State from which the document emanates.

However, the formality mentioned in the preceding paragraph cannot be required
when either the laws, regulations, or practice in force in the State where the
document is produced or an agreement between two or more Contracting States
have abolished or simplified it, or exempt the document itself from legalisation.

    ARTICLE 4

The certificate referred to in the first paragraph of Article 3 shall be placed on the
document itself or on an “allonge”; it shall be in the form of the model annexed to
the present Convention.

It may, however, be drawn up in the official language of the authority which issues
it. The standard terms appearing therein may be in a second language also. The
title “Apostille (Convention de La Haye du 5 octobre 1961)” shall be in the French
language.
2020 Ed.  Apostille Act 2020                 13

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

          ARTICLE 5

The certificate shall be issued at the request of the person who has signed the
document or of any bearer.

When properly filled in, it will certify the authenticity of the signature, the
capacity in which the person signing the document has acted and, where
appropriate, the identity of the seal or stamp which the document bears.

The signature, seal and stamp on the certificate are exempt from all certification.

          ARTICLE 6

Each Contracting State shall designate by reference to their official function, the
authorities who are competent to issue the certificate referred to in the first
paragraph of Article 3.

It shall give notice of such designation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
Netherlands at the time it deposits its instrument of ratification or of accession or
its declaration of extension. It shall also give notice of any change in the
designated authorities.

          ARTICLE 7

Each of the authorities designated in accordance with Article 6 shall keep a
register or card index in which it shall record the certificates issued, specifying:

(a) the number and date of the certificate,

(b) the name of the person signing the public document and the capacity in
     which he has acted, or in the case of unsigned documents, the name of
     the authority which has affixed the seal or stamp.

At the request of any interested person, the authority which has issued the
certificate shall verify whether the particulars in the certificate correspond with
those in the register or card index.

          ARTICLE 8

When a treaty, convention or agreement between two or more Contracting States
contains provisions which subject the certification of a signature, seal or stamp to
certain formalities, the present Convention will only override such provisions if
those formalities are more rigorous than the formality referred to in Articles 3
and 4.

          ARTICLE 9

Each Contracting State shall take the necessary steps to prevent the performance
of legalisations by its diplomatic or consular agents in cases where the present
Convention provides for exemption.

                                             31.12.2021
14  Apostille Act 2020          2020 Ed.

    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    ARTICLE 10

The present Convention shall be open for signature by the States represented at the
Ninth Session of the Hague Conference on Private International Law and Iceland,
Ireland, Liechtenstein and Turkey.

It shall be ratified, and the instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands.

    ARTICLE 11

The present Convention shall enter into force on the sixtieth day after the deposit
of the third instrument of ratification referred to in the second paragraph of
Article 10.

The Convention shall enter into force for each signatory State which ratifies
subsequently on the sixtieth day after the deposit of its instrument of ratification.

    ARTICLE 12

Any State not referred to in Article 10 may accede to the present Convention after
it has entered into force in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 11. The
instrument of accession shall be deposited with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Netherlands.

Such accession shall have effect only as regards the relations between the
acceding State and those Contracting States which have not raised an objection to
its accession in the six months after the receipt of the notification referred to in
sub-paragraph (d) of Article 15. Any such objection shall be notified to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands.

The Convention shall enter into force as between the acceding State and the States
which have raised no objection to its accession on the sixtieth day after the expiry
of the period of six months mentioned in the preceding paragraph.

    ARTICLE 13

Any State may, at the time of signature, ratification or accession, declare that the
present Convention shall extend to all the territories for the international relations
of which it is responsible, or to one or more of them. Such a declaration shall take
effect on the date of entry into force of the Convention for the State concerned.

At any time thereafter, such extensions shall be notified to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of the Netherlands.
2020 Ed.  Apostille Act 2020                                                       15

          FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

When the declaration of extension is made by a State which has signed and
ratified, the Convention shall enter into force for the territories concerned in
accordance with Article 11. When the declaration of extension is made by a State
which has acceded, the Convention shall enter into force for the territories
concerned in accordance with Article 12.

          ARTICLE 14

The present Convention shall remain in force for five years from the date of its
entry into force in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 11, even for
States which have ratified it or acceded to it subsequently.

If there has been no denunciation, the Convention shall be renewed tacitly every
five years.

Any denunciation shall be notified to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
Netherlands at least six months before the end of the five year period.

It may be limited to certain of the territories to which the Convention applies.

The denunciation will only have effect as regards the State which has notified it.
The Convention shall remain in force for the other Contracting States.

          ARTICLE 15

The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands shall give notice to the States
referred to in Article 10, and to the States which have acceded in accordance with
Article 12, of the following:

(a) the notifications referred to in the second paragraph of Article 6;

(b) the signatures and ratifications referred to in Article 10;

(c) the date on which the present Convention enters into force in
    accordance with the first paragraph of Article 11;

(d) the accessions and objections referred to in Article 12 and the date on
     which such accessions take effect;

(e) the extensions referred to in Article 13 and the date on which they take
    effect;

          (f) the denunciations referred to in the third paragraph of Article 14.

                                                                 31.12.2021
16                        Apostille Act 2020                                2020 Ed.

                    FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

                    ANNEX TO THE CONVENTION

                          Model of certificate

The certificate will be in the form of a square with sides at least 9 centimetres long

                                       APOSTILLE
                    (Convention de La Haye du 5 octobre 1961)

    1. Country: .......................................................................................................

    This public document

    2. has been signed by .......................................................................................

    3. acting in the capacity of ................................................................................

    4. bears the seal/stamp of ................................................................................

    ......................................................................................................................

                             Certified

    5. at .................................................. 6. the ..............................................

    7. by .................................................................................................................

       ......................................................................................................................
    8. No: .................................

    9. Seal/Stamp:                                          10. Signature:

    ......................................................  ....................................................

                SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                Sections 15 and 19

    COMPETENT AUTHORITIES FOR CERTIFYING
            SINGAPORE PUBLIC DOCUMENTS

              First column                                                Second column
                 Authority
                                                                          Documents that
1. Singapore Academy of Law                                           authority may certify

                                                            Any Singapore public document
                      LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                       APOSTILLE ACT 2020

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 38 of 2020 — Apostille Act 2020

       Bill                          : 35/2020

       First Reading                 : 5 October 2020

       Second and Third Readings : 2 November 2020

       Commencement                  : 20 January 2021 (section 21(2))
                                           16 September 2021 (except
                                           section 21(2))

                                  Abbreviations

C.P.                  Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.              Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S            Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.                  Legislative Assembly

L.N.                  Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

                      Legislation)

M. Act                Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.                 Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.          Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

                                                                     31.12.2021
COMPARATIVE TABLE
APOSTILLE ACT 2020

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

                 2020 Ed.               Act 38 of 2020
[Omitted as having had effect]
[Omitted as having had effect]  21—(1)
                                   (2)

                                                        31.12.2021
