THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                  SPAM CONTROL ACT 2007

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                                                                   2020 Ed.

          Spam Control Act 2007

          ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

          PART 1

          PRELIMINARY

Section   Short title
          General interpretation
     1.   Meaning of “commercial electronic message”
     2.   Meaning of “electronic message”
     3.   Electronic messages sent to instant messaging accounts
     4.   Meaning of “unsolicited”
     4A.  Meaning of “sending in bulk”
     5.   Application of Act
     6.
     7.

                                        PART 2
DICTIONARY ATTACK AND ADDRESS-HARVESTING SOFTWARE

 8. Application of this Part
 9. Use of dictionary attack and address-harvesting software

                                        PART 3

      UNSOLICITED COMMERCIAL ELECTRONIC MESSAGES

10. Application of this Part
11. Sender of unsolicited commercial electronic messages in bulk to

         comply with Second Schedule

                                        PART 4

                                   CIVIL ACTION

12. Aiding, abetting, etc.
13. Civil action
14. Injunction and damages for civil action
15. Costs and expenses

                                                   1

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                      2

          PART 5

          MISCELLANEOUS

Section   Code of practice
          Amendment of Schedules
   16.    Regulations
   17.    First Schedule — Excluded electronic messages
   18.    Second Schedule — Requirements for unsolicited commercial

                                    electronic messages

An Act to provide for the control of spam, which is unsolicited
  commercial communications sent in bulk by email or by text or
  multimedia messaging to mobile telephone numbers, and to provide
  for matters connected therewith.

                                                                [15 June 2007]

                                    PART 1

                               PRELIMINARY

Short title

 1. This Act is the Spam Control Act 2007.

General interpretation
 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “address-harvesting software” means software that is
         specifically designed or marketed for use for —
              (a) searching the Internet for electronic addresses; and

              (b) collecting, compiling, capturing or otherwise
                   harvesting those electronic addresses;

      “Authority” means the Info-communications Media
         Development Authority established by section 3 of the
         Info-communications Media Development Authority
         Act 2016;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
3  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

   “business day” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or
      public holiday;

   “dictionary attack” means the method by which the electronic
      address of a recipient is obtained using an automated means
      that generates possible electronic addresses by combining
      names, letters, numbers, punctuation marks or symbols into
      numerous permutations;

   “electronic address” means an email address, an instant
      messaging account or a mobile telephone number to which
      an electronic message can be sent;

   “instant messaging account” means an account of a user of an
      instant messaging service;

   “instant messaging service” means a messaging service that
      allows a user to exchange messages with other users who are
      using the service concurrently;

   “Internet access service provider” means a person who provides
      a service to give the public access to the Internet;

   “recipient”, in relation to an electronic message, means an
      authorised user of the electronic address to whom the
      message is sent, and where a recipient of an electronic
      message has one or more electronic addresses in addition to
      the address to which the message was sent, the recipient is
      treated as a separate recipient with respect to each such
      address;

   “sender”, in relation to an electronic message, means a person
      who sends the message, causes the message to be sent, or
      authorises the sending of the message;

   “unsubscribe request” means a request by a recipient of an
      electronic message, requesting the sender to stop sending any
      further electronic messages to the recipient’s electronic
      address.

                          [22/2016; 40/2020]

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                    4

Meaning of “commercial electronic message”

 3.—(1) In this Act, a commercial electronic message is an
electronic message, where, having regard to —

(a) the content of the message;

(b) the way in which the message is presented; and

          (c) the content that can be located using the links, telephone
              numbers or contact information (if any) set out in the
              message,

it is concluded that the primary purpose of the message is —

(d) to offer to supply goods or services;

          (e) to advertise or promote goods or services;

          (f) to advertise or promote a supplier, or a prospective
              supplier, of goods or services;

(g) to offer to supply land or an interest in land;

(h) to advertise or promote land or an interest in land;

          (i) to advertise or promote a supplier, or a prospective
              supplier, of land or an interest in land;

          (j) to offer to provide a business opportunity or an investment
              opportunity;

          (k) to advertise or promote a business opportunity or an
              investment opportunity;

          (l) to advertise or promote a provider, or a prospective
              provider, of a business opportunity or an investment
              opportunity;

(m) to assist or enable a person, by deception, to dishonestly
     obtain property belonging to another person;

(n) to assist or enable a person, by deception, to dishonestly
     obtain a financial advantage from another person; or

(o) to assist or enable a person to dishonestly obtain a gain
     from another person.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
5  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

 (2) For the purposes of paragraphs (d) to (l) of subsection (1), it
does not matter —

   (a) whether the goods, services, land, interest or opportunity
        exists; or

   (b) whether it is lawful to acquire the goods, services, land or
        interest, or take up the opportunity.

 (3) Any of the following persons may be the individual who, or
entity which, is the sender of the message:

   (a) the supplier or prospective supplier mentioned in
        paragraph (f) or (i) of subsection (1);

   (b) the provider or prospective provider mentioned in
        paragraph (l) of subsection (1);

   (c) the firstmentioned person in paragraph (m), (n) or (o) of
       subsection (1).

 (4) Subject to subsection (5), a person who knowingly allows the
person’s product or service to be advertised or promoted by a sender
is deemed to have authorised the sending by the sender of any
electronic message that advertises or promotes that person’s product
or service.

 (5) For the purposes of subsection (4), a person who takes
reasonable steps to stop the sending of any electronic message that
advertises or promotes that person’s product or service is deemed not
to have authorised the sending of the message.

Meaning of “electronic message”
 4.—(1) In this Act, subject to subsection (3), an electronic message

is a message sent to an electronic address.
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), it does not matter —

       (a) whether the electronic address exists; or

       (b) whether the message reaches its intended destination.

 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a message is not an electronic
message if it is sent by way of a voice call made using a telephone
service.

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                    6

Electronic messages sent to instant messaging accounts

4A. For the purposes of this Act —

(a) where an electronic message is sent to an instant messaging
     account; and

(b) the name used to identify, or which is associated with, that
     instant messaging account is an email address or a mobile
     telephone number,

the electronic message is not a message sent to the email address or
mobile telephone number (as the case may be) mentioned in
paragraph (b).

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

Meaning of “unsolicited”

 5.—(1) In this Act, an electronic message is unsolicited if the
recipient did not —

       (a) request to receive the message; or

       (b) consent to the receipt of the message.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a recipient is not to be treated
as having requested to receive the message or consented to the receipt
of the message merely because the electronic address of the recipient
was given or published by or on behalf of the recipient.

 (3) For the purposes of subsection (1), where a recipient of an
electronic message, other than an unsolicited electronic message,
submits an unsubscribe request, the recipient is not to be treated as
having requested to receive or consented to the receipt of any
message sent after the expiry of 10 business days after the day on
which the unsubscribe request is submitted.

Meaning of “sending in bulk”

 6.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, electronic messages are
deemed to be sent in bulk if a person sends, causes to be sent or
authorises the sending of —

       (a) more than 100 electronic messages containing the same or
            similar subject matter during a 24-hour period;

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
7  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

   (b) more than 1,000 electronic messages containing the same
        or similar subject matter during a 30-day period; or

   (c) more than 10,000 electronic messages containing the same
       or similar subject matter during a one-year period.

 (2) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, vary the number of
electronic messages specified in subsection (1)(a), (b) or (c).

Application of Act

 7.—(1) This Act does not apply unless an electronic message has a
Singapore link.

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an electronic message has a
Singapore link in the following circumstances:

       (a) the message originates in Singapore;

       (b) the sender of the message is —

               (i) an individual who is physically present in Singapore
                   when the message is sent; or

              (ii) an entity —

                    (A) which is formed or recognised under the law of
                          Singapore; or

                     (B) which has an office or a place of business in
                          Singapore;

       (c) the computer, mobile telephone, server or device that is
            used to access the message is located in Singapore;

       (d) the recipient of the message is —

               (i) an individual who is physically present in Singapore
                   when the message is accessed; or

              (ii) an entity that carries on business or activities in
                   Singapore when the message is accessed; or

       (e) if the message cannot be delivered because the relevant
            electronic address no longer exists (assuming that the
            electronic address existed), it is reasonably likely that the

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                    8

            message would have been accessed using a computer,
            mobile telephone, server or device located in Singapore.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (3) Despite subsection (1), this Act does not apply to any electronic
message specified in the First Schedule to such extent as may be
specified therein.

                                    PART 2

    DICTIONARY ATTACK AND ADDRESS-HARVESTING
                                 SOFTWARE

Application of this Part

 8.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), this Part applies to all electronic
messages, whether or not they are unsolicited commercial electronic
messages.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

 (2) This Part does not apply to any electronic message sent to a
mobile telephone number.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

Use of dictionary attack and address-harvesting software

 9. A person must not send, cause to be sent, or authorise the sending
of, an electronic message to electronic addresses generated or
obtained through the use of —

       (a) a dictionary attack; or

       (b) address-harvesting software.

                                    PART 3
  UNSOLICITED COMMERCIAL ELECTRONIC MESSAGES
Application of this Part
 10. This Part applies only to unsolicited commercial electronic
messages.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
9  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

Sender of unsolicited commercial electronic messages in bulk
to comply with Second Schedule

 11. Any person who sends, causes to be sent or authorises the
sending of unsolicited commercial electronic messages in bulk must
comply with the requirements in the Second Schedule.

                                    PART 4

                               CIVIL ACTION

Aiding, abetting, etc.
 12.—(1) A person must not —

       (a) aid, abet or procure a contravention of section 9 or 11;

       (b) induce, whether by threats, promises or otherwise, a
            contravention of section 9 or 11;

       (c) be in any way, directly or indirectly, knowingly concerned
            in or a party to, a contravention of section 9 or 11; or

       (d) conspire with others to effect a contravention of section 9
            or 11.

 (2) A person does not contravene subsection (1), section 9 or 11
merely because the person —

       (a) provides, or operates facilities for, online services or
            network access; or

       (b) provides services relating to, or provides connections for,
            the transmission or routing of data.

Civil action
 13.—(1) Where there is a contravention of section 9 or 11 in

relation to electronic messages sent to electronic addresses, any
person who has suffered loss or damage as a direct or an indirect
result of that contravention may commence an action in a court
against —

       (a) the sender; or

       (b) a person who has contravened section 12(1).

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                    10

 (2) This section does not affect any liability that any person has
under any other written law or rule of law.

Injunction and damages for civil action

 14.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, in an action under
section 13(1), the types of relief that the court may grant include the
following:

       (a) an injunction (subject to any terms that the court thinks fit);

       (b) damages;

       (c) statutory damages under subsection (3).

 (2) The types of relief mentioned in paragraphs (b) and (c) of
subsection (1) are mutually exclusive.

 (3) In any action under section 13(1), the claimant is entitled, at the
election of the claimant, to —

       (a) damages in the amount of the loss or damage suffered by
            the claimant as a direct or an indirect result of the
            contravention mentioned in section 13(1); or

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

       (b) statutory damages —

               (i) not exceeding $25 for each electronic message
                   mentioned in section 13(1); and

              (ii) not exceeding in the aggregate $1 million, unless the
                   claimant proves that the actual loss suffered by the
                   claimant from such electronic messages exceeds
                   $1 million.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

 (4) In awarding statutory damages under subsection (3)(b), the
court is to have regard to —

       (a) whether the contravention by the defendant of section 9, 11
            or 12(1) was wilful;

       (b) any loss or damage that the claimant has suffered or is
            likely to suffer as a direct or an indirect result of the
            contravention mentioned in section 13(1);

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
11  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

    (c) any benefit shown to have accrued to the defendant by
        reason of the sending of electronic messages;

    (d) the need to deter other similar instances of sending of
         electronic messages; and

    (e) all other relevant matters.

 (5) The loss mentioned in this section includes any pecuniary loss
suffered as a direct or an indirect result of the contravention
mentioned in section 13(1).

Costs and expenses

 15. In any proceedings under this Act, the court may, in addition to
exercising the powers conferred by section 14, order the defendant to
pay to the claimant —

       (a) the costs and expenses of and incidental to the proceedings;
            and

       (b) any legal costs incurred in respect of the proceedings.

                                                                               [Act 25 of 2021 wef 01/04/2022]

                                    PART 5

                             MISCELLANEOUS

Code of practice

 16.—(1) Internet access service providers and telecommunications
service providers may, with the approval of the Authority, issue a
code of practice in connection with —

       (a) minimum standards of technical measures to effectively
            control the sending of unsolicited commercial electronic
            messages; and

       (b) any other matters that the Authority may require.

 (2) Every Internet access service provider and telecommunications
service provider must comply with any code of practice the Authority
approves under subsection (1), except that if any provision in any
code of practice is inconsistent with this Act, that provision does not
have effect to the extent of the inconsistency.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                    12

Amendment of Schedules

 17.—(1) The Minister may at any time, by order in the Gazette,
amend any Schedule.

 (2) The Minister may, in any order made under subsection (1),
make any incidental, consequential or supplementary provisions that
may be necessary or expedient.

Regulations

 18. The Minister may make any regulations that may be necessary
or expedient —

       (a) for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this Act;
            and

       (b) for prescribing anything that may be required or authorised
            to be prescribed by this Act.

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                              Sections 7(3) and 17

                      EXCLUDED ELECTRONIC MESSAGES

 1. This Act does not apply to any electronic message where the sending of the
message is authorised by the Government or a statutory body on the occurrence of
any public emergency, in the public interest or in the interests of public security or
national defence.

 2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, if any doubt arises as to the existence of a
public emergency or as to whether any electronic message is sent in the interests of
public security or national defence, a certificate signed by the Minister is
conclusive evidence of the matters stated in the certificate.

                           SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                                Sections 11 and 17

            REQUIREMENTS FOR UNSOLICITED COMMERCIAL
                               ELECTRONIC MESSAGES

Interpretation
 1. In this Schedule —

      “header information” means the source, destination and routing information
         attached to an electronic message, including (where applicable) the

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
13  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

    originating domain name and originating email address, and any other
    information that appears in the line identifying, or purporting to identify,
    the sender of the message;

    “mistake” means reasonable mistake of fact.

Unsubscribe facility

 2.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), every unsolicited commercial
electronic message must contain —

        (a) an email address, an Internet location address, a telephone number, a
             fax number or a postal address that the recipient may use to submit an
             unsubscribe request; and

        (b) a statement to the effect that the recipient may use the email address,
             Internet location address, telephone number, fax number or postal
             address (as the case may be) provided in the unsolicited commercial
             electronic message to submit an unsubscribe request, or a statement to
             similar effect.

 (2) Where the unsolicited commercial electronic message is received by the
recipient by email, the unsolicited commercial electronic message must include an
email address to which the recipient may submit an unsubscribe request.

 (3) Where the unsolicited commercial electronic message is received by the
recipient by text or multimedia messaging sent to a mobile telephone number, the
unsolicited commercial electronic message must include —

        (a) a mobile telephone number to which the recipient may submit an
             unsubscribe request by text if the unsolicited commercial electronic
             message is received by text; or

        (b) a mobile telephone number to which the recipient may submit an
             unsubscribe request by text or multimedia messaging at the recipient’s
             option if the unsolicited commercial electronic message is received by
             multimedia messaging.

 (4) The statement mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(b) must be presented —

        (a) in a clear and conspicuous manner; and

        (b) in the English language, and where the statement is presented in 2 or
             more languages, the English language must be one of the languages.

 (5) The email address, Internet location address, telephone number, fax number
or postal address mentioned in sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) must be —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
2020 Ed.  Spam Control Act 2007                                    14

          SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

(a) valid and capable of receiving —

          (i) the recipient’s unsubscribe request (if any); and

          (ii) a reasonable number of similar unsubscribe requests sent by
               other recipients (if any),

          at all times during a period of at least 30 days after the unsolicited
          commercial electronic message is sent; and

(b) legitimately obtained.

 (6) The use of the email address, Internet location address, telephone number,
fax number or postal address mentioned in sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) to
submit an unsubscribe request must not cost more than the usual cost of using that
kind or a similar kind of email address, Internet location address, telephone
number, fax number or postal address (as the case may be) using the same kind of
technology as was used to receive the unsolicited commercial electronic message.

 (7) Where a recipient submits an unsubscribe request using the facility provided
in accordance with this paragraph, no further unsolicited commercial electronic
messages may be sent after the expiry of 10 business days after the day on which
the unsubscribe request is submitted.

 (8) Any person who receives an unsubscribe request under this paragraph must
not disclose any information contained in the unsubscribe request to any other
person, except with the consent of the person whose particulars are contained in
the unsubscribe request.

 (9) Sub-paragraphs (1) to (7) do not apply if the unsolicited commercial
electronic message is sent, caused to be sent or authorised to be sent by mistake.

Labelling and other requirements

 3.—(1) Subject to sub-paragraph (3), every unsolicited commercial electronic
message must contain —

        (a) where there is a subject field — a title in the subject field that is not
             false or misleading as to the content of the message;

        (b) the letters “<ADV>” with a space before the title in the subject field, or
             if there is no subject field, in the words first appearing in the message,
             to clearly identify that the message is an advertisement;

        (c) header information that is not false or misleading; and

        (d) an accurate and functional email address or telephone number by
             which the sender can be readily contacted.

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
15  Spam Control Act 2007                                    2020 Ed.

    SECOND SCHEDULE — continued

 (2) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply if the unsolicited commercial electronic
message is sent, caused to be sent or authorised to be sent by mistake.

 (3) Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to any unsolicited commercial electronic
message that is sent to an instant messaging account.

                                                                                                           [40/2020]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
                  LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
                SPAM CONTROL ACT 2007

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 21 of 2007 — Spam Control Act 2007

Bill                  : 6/2007

First Reading         : 12 February 2007

Second and Third Readings : 12 April 2007

Commencement          : 15 June 2007

2. 2008 Revised Edition — Spam Control Act (Chapter 311A)

Operation             : 31 July 2008

3. Act 22 of 2016 — Info-communications Media Development Authority
                           Act 2016

   (Amendments made by section 99 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 21/2016

First Reading         : 11 July 2016

Second and Third Readings : 16 August 2016

Commencement          : 1 October 2016 (section 99)

4. Act 40 of 2020 — Personal Data Protection (Amendment) Act 2020
   (Amendments made by section 41 of the above Act)

Bill                  : 37/2020

First Reading         : 5 October 2020

Second Reading        : 2 November 2020

Notice of Amendments  : 2 November 2020

Third Reading         : 2 November 2020

Commencement          : 1 February 2021 (section 41)

5. 2020 Revised Edition — Spam Control Act 2007

Operation             : 31 December 2021

6. Act 25 of 2021 — Courts (Civil and Criminal Justice) Reform Act 2021

Bill                  : 18/2021

First Reading         : 26 July 2021

      Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
       Second and Third Readings    ii
       Commencement               : 14 September 2021
                                  : 1 April 2022

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number

          Informal Consolidation – version in force from 1/4/2022
