THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
                HOME AFFAIRS UNIFORMED
               SERVICES SUPERANNUATION
                               ACT 2001

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                                2020 Ed.

Home Affairs Uniformed
Services Superannuation

         Act 2001

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

                             PART 1
                        PRELIMINARY

Section
     1. Short title
     2. Interpretation

                                        PART 2

                                   INVEST PLAN

 3. Establishment of INVEST Plan
 4. Conversion of existing officers to INVEST Plan
 5. Benefits not as of right
 6. Reduction, etc., of benefits
 7. Non-assignability or attachment, etc., of benefits
 8. Effect of bankruptcy on benefits
 9. Benefits to cease on conviction
10. Benefits not part of member’s estate
11. Recovery of benefits granted in ignorance of disqualifying facts

                                        PART 3

                                   INVEST FUND

12. Establishment of INVEST Fund
13. Purposes of Fund
14. Administration of Fund
15. Investment
16. Deficiencies
17. Fund surpluses
18. Withdrawals

                        1

                                                                 31.12.2021
         Home Affairs Uniformed

         Services Superannuation

2        Act 2001                                        2020 Ed.

         PART 4

         BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND AWARD OFFICERS

Section  Appointment of Board
         Functions and powers of Board
   19.   Ability to delegate, etc.
   20.   Board’s delegates and subdelegates
   21.   Award officers and appeal authority
   22.
   23.

                                           PART 5

                             AUDIT AND ACCOUNTING

   24. Accounts, financial statements and audit
   25. Periodic examination of Fund
   26. Regulations for administration of Fund

An Act to establish a new occupational superannuation scheme
  known as the INVEST Plan for officers in the uniformed services
  under the Ministry of Home Affairs and the INVEST Fund for the
  purpose of that Plan and for matters connected therewith.

                                                              [1 October 2001]

                                    PART 1    Uniformed  Services
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title
 1. This Act is the Home Affairs
Superannuation Act 2001.

Interpretation

 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —

      “award officer” means any person appointed as an award officer
         under section 23(1);

      “Board” means the Board of Trustees appointed under
         section 19 for the administration and management of the
         INVEST Fund;
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                                      3

“civil defence officer” means any public officer appointed to the
   permanent establishment in the Civil Defence Service but
   excludes any auxiliary member of the Civil Defence Force
   and any civil defence officer who is a national serviceman;

“Fund” means the INVEST Fund established under Part 3;

“intelligence officer” means any public officer appointed to the
   permanent establishment in any scheme of service designated
   by the Minister;

“INVEST Plan” means the INVEST Plan established by
   regulations made under Part 2;

“junior police officer” means a police officer who is below the
   rank of inspector;

“member” means a member of the INVEST Plan;

“narcotics officer” means any public officer appointed to the
   permanent establishment in the Narcotics Service;

“national serviceman” has the meaning given by the Enlistment
   Act 1970;

“police officer” means any public officer appointed to the
   permanent establishment in the Police Service but excludes
   any auxiliary police officer, any member of the Special
   Constabulary constituted under Part 8 of the Police Force
   Act 2004 and any police officer who is a national serviceman;

“prison officer” means any public officer appointed to the
   permanent establishment in the Prisons Service;

“public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
   under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

“Scheme” means the Occupational Superannuation Scheme
   established under the Prevention of Corruption Act 1960 for
   the benefit of officers in the Corrupt Practices Investigation
   Schemes of Service;

“senior police officer” means any police officer other than a
   junior police officer;

                                             31.12.2021
   Home Affairs Uniformed

   Services Superannuation

4  Act 2001                 2020 Ed.

   “service” means regular service (whether part-time or full-time)
      as a uniformed service officer;

   “trustee” means a member of the Board appointed under
      section 19;

   “uniformed service officer” means any civil defence officer,
      intelligence officer, narcotics officer, police officer or prison
      officer.

                            [35/2019]

                                    PART 2

                               INVEST PLAN

Establishment of INVEST Plan

 3.—(1) The Minister must by regulations establish an occupational
superannuation scheme to be known as the INVEST Plan for the
benefit of —

       (a) all civil defence officers appointed on or after the
            commencement of the regulations;

       (b) all narcotics officers appointed on or after the
            commencement of the regulations;

       (c) all police officers appointed on or after the commencement
            of the regulations;

       (d) all prison officers appointed on or after the commencement
            of the regulations; and

       (e) all intelligence officers who are appointed on or after the
            commencement of the regulations, including those who
            were members immediately before becoming intelligence
            officers,

who will or (as the case may be) continue to be members of the
scheme.

 (2) The regulations made under subsection (1) must provide for the
payment of —
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                                           5

(a) any gratuity, allowance, superannuation or other like
     benefit to members of the INVEST Plan, or to their legal
     personal representatives or dependants, on the death of the
     member in service or on the resignation, retirement or
     discharge of the member from the service;

(b) any pension, gratuity, allowance, compensation or other
     benefit in respect of the death of or injuries received by any
     member of the INVEST Plan in and which are attributable
     to service; and

          (c) any allowance, subsidy or other benefit to such former
              members of the INVEST Plan as may be prescribed after
              their retirement from the uniformed services.

(3) The regulations made under subsection (1) may provide —

(a) for the payment of contributions by the Board in respect of
     each member, and different rates of contributions may be
     prescribed for different classes of uniformed service
     officers who are members; and

(b) for the age or ages at which a member may retire or be
     retired from the service.

Conversion of existing officers to INVEST Plan

 4.—(1) Subject to subsection (3), in making regulations under
section 3(1), the Minister must also provide —

       (a) for every civil defence officer, narcotics officer, police
            officer or prison officer who is appointed before the
            commencement of those regulations and who, immediately
            prior to the commencement, is eligible (whether on
            retirement or in respect of death or injury in or
            attributable to service) for any pension, gratuity or other
            allowance under the Pensions Act 1956; and

                                   31.12.2021
   Home Affairs Uniformed

   Services Superannuation

6  Act 2001                 2020 Ed.

   (b) for every officer who is appointed before the
        commencement of those regulations to the Civil Defence
        Service, the Narcotics Service, the Police Service or the
        Prisons Service on a contract for a term and who,
        immediately prior to the commencement, is eligible for
        any gratuity or other like benefit under the contract,

an option to join the INVEST Plan as a member and for the terms and
conditions of the option.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (2) Subject to subsection (3), the regulations made under
section 3(1) in relation to the officers referred to in subsection (1)
must provide —

   (a) in the case of a uniformed service officer referred to in
        subsection (1)(a), that any such officer who opts to join the
        INVEST Plan ceases to be eligible to benefits under the
        Pensions Act 1956 but remains eligible under the INVEST
        Plan to benefits not less in value than the amount of any
        pension, gratuity or other allowance for which he or she
        would have been granted under the Pensions Act 1956 if he
        or she retired from service, or was injured or died in
        service, on the date immediately prior to his or her joining
        the INVEST Plan; and

   (b) in the case of an officer referred to in subsection (1)(b), that
        any such officer who opts to join the INVEST Plan remains
        eligible to benefits not less in value than the amount of any
        gratuity or other like benefit for which he or she would
        have been granted under his or her contract if he or she had
        completed his or her term of service under the contract on
        the date immediately prior to his or her joining the
        INVEST Plan.

 (3) Any option exercised by any officer before the commencement
of the regulations to join or not to join the INVEST Plan is deemed to
be exercised in accordance with the regulations made under this
section.
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.                  Act 2001  7

Benefits not as of right

 5. No member has an absolute right to compensation for past
services or to any pension, gratuity, allowance or other benefit under
the INVEST Plan.

Reduction, etc., of benefits

 6.—(1) Nothing in this Act limits the right of the relevant
appointing authority to dismiss any member from the uniformed
services without compensation.

 (2) Subject to Article 113 of the Constitution, where it is established
to the satisfaction of the relevant authority that a member has been
guilty of negligence, irregularity or misconduct, it is lawful for the
relevant authority to reduce or altogether withhold the pension,
gratuity, allowance or other benefit for which the member would but
for this section have become eligible under the INVEST Plan.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (3) In subsection (1), “relevant appointing authority” means —

       (a) in the case of a member who is a junior police officer — the
            Commissioner of Police; and

       (b) in the case of a member who is a civil defence officer, an
            intelligence officer, a narcotics officer, a prison officer or a
            senior police officer — the Public Service Commission or
            any of its delegates.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

 (4) In subsection (2), “relevant authority” means —

       (a) in the case of a member who is a junior police officer — the
            Commissioner of Police; and

       (b) in the case of a member who is a civil defence officer, an
            intelligence officer, a narcotics officer, a prison officer or a
            senior police officer — a Permanent Secretary to the
            Ministry of Home Affairs or any of his or her delegates.

                                                                                                             [4/2014]

                                    31.12.2021
   Home Affairs Uniformed

   Services Superannuation

8  Act 2001                                         2020 Ed.

Non-assignability or attachment, etc., of benefits

 7. No payment, allowance or other benefit payable under the
INVEST Plan (whether on death, retirement or resignation of a
member or otherwise), and no contribution by the Government made
under the INVEST Plan and no interest thereon shall be assignable or
transferable, or liable to be garnished, attached, sequestered or levied
upon for or in respect of any debt or claim, other than —

   (a) a debt due to the Government; or

   (b) an order of court for the payment of periodical sums of
        money towards the maintenance of the wife or former wife
        or minor child (whether legitimate or not) of the member to
        whom the payment, allowance or other benefit has been
        granted.

Effect of bankruptcy on benefits

 8.—(1) No contribution by the Government made under the
INVEST Plan and no interest thereon shall be subject to the debts
of any member, nor shall such contributions and interest pass to the
Official Assignee on the bankruptcy of the member, and if the
member is adjudicated a bankrupt or is declared insolvent by a court
of law, the contributions and interest must be deemed excluded from
the property of the bankrupt for the purposes of the Insolvency,
Restructuring and Dissolution Act 2018.

                                                                                                           [40/2018]

 (2) If, at the date of his or her retirement or resignation from the
uniformed services, any member has been adjudged a bankrupt by
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in Singapore
or elsewhere, and he or she has not obtained a discharge from the
adjudication or declaration, it is lawful for an award officer to refuse
to grant any pension, gratuity or other allowance which would, if not
for this subsection, be granted.

 (3) If any person to whom a pension or other allowance has been
granted under this Act is adjudicated a bankrupt by judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction, whether in Singapore or elsewhere,
the Minister may direct that the pension or allowance must forthwith
cease, and the pension or allowance then ceases accordingly.
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                 9

 (4) In any case where, by reason of bankruptcy of the former
member, a pension, gratuity or allowance is not granted or where a
pension or allowance ceases by virtue of a direction under
subsection (3), the Minister may, from time to time, during the
remainder of the member’s or former member’s life, or during such
shorter period or periods, either continuous or discontinuous, as the
Minister thinks fit, cause all or any part of the moneys to which the
person would have been entitled by way of pension, gratuity or
allowance, had the person not become a bankrupt, to be paid to, or
applied for the maintenance and personal support or benefit of, all or
any (to the exclusion of the others) of the following persons in such
proportions and manner as the Minister thinks proper:

(a) the member or former member;

(b) any wife, child or children of the member or former
     member.

 (5) When a person to whom a pension or allowance has not been
granted or whose pension or allowance has ceased under this section
obtains a full and proper discharge from his or her bankruptcy, his or
her pension or allowance must be restored to him or her with effect
from the date of the discharge.

 (6) For the purposes of subsection (4), moneys applied for the
discharge of the debts of the member or former member (as the case
may be) are regarded as applied for his or her benefit.

Benefits to cease on conviction

 9.—(1) If any person to whom a pension or other allowance has
been granted under this Act is sentenced to death or penal servitude or
any term of imprisonment by any court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in Singapore or elsewhere, for any crime or offence, the
Minister may direct that the pension or allowance must forthwith
cease, and the pension or allowance then ceases accordingly.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), any pension or allowance that has
ceased by virtue of a direction under subsection (1) must be restored
with retrospective effect in the case of a person who, after conviction,
at any time receives a free pardon.

                                   31.12.2021
    Home Affairs Uniformed

    Services Superannuation

10  Act 2001                 2020 Ed.

 (3) Where a pension or allowance ceases by virtue of a direction
under subsection (1), the Minister may cause all or any part of
moneys to which the person would have been entitled by way of
pension or allowance to be paid to or applied for the benefit of the
person’s wife, child or children, or after the expiration of the person’s
sentence, also for the benefit of himself or herself, in the same manner
precisely and subject to the same qualifications and restrictions as in
the case of bankruptcy provided in section 8.

Benefits not part of member’s estate

 10. Subject to the provisions of any regulations made under this
Part, all moneys paid or payable under the INVEST Plan on the death
of a member are deemed to be subject to a trust in favour of the
persons entitled thereto under the will or intestacy of the deceased
member and are not deemed to form part of his or her estate or subject
to the payment of his or her debts but are deemed to be property
passing on his or her death for the purposes of the Estate Duty
Act 1929.

Recovery of benefits granted in ignorance of disqualifying facts

 11. It is a condition of the grant of every pension, gratuity,
allowance or other benefit under the INVEST Plan that the
Government may recover, cancel or reduce the grant if it is shown
to have been obtained by the wilful suppression of material facts or to
have been granted in ignorance of facts which, had they been known
before the retirement or resignation of the member, would have
justified his or her dismissal or a reduction of his or her salary.

                                    PART 3

                               INVEST FUND

Establishment of INVEST Fund
 12.—(1) There is established a fund called the INVEST Fund into

which must be paid all the following moneys:

       (a) the sums appropriated from the Consolidated Fund and
            authorised to be paid into the Fund by or under any written
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                 11

          law to enable the Fund to meet its liabilities under this Act
          or any other written law;

(b) all revenues of Singapore allocated by written law to the
     Fund;

          (c) the net income from investments of moneys in the Fund
              authorised to be made by this Act or any other written law.

 (2) There must also be paid into the Fund such sum from the
Pension Fund established by the Pension Fund Act 1995 as the
Minister for Finance may determine as the value of that part of the
Pension Fund relating to all those officers in the uniformed services
referred to in section 4(1)(a) who exercise an option in favour of
joining the INVEST Plan in accordance with the regulations.

 (3) The moneys referred to in subsections (1)(a) and (b) and (2)
must be paid into the INVEST Fund as capital money, and must not
be used to make payment of any dividend under the INVEST Plan.

 (4) The Fund is deemed to be a Government fund for the purposes
of any other written law.

 (5) The Fund must be held, managed and administered separately
from other Government funds.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (6) Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act or
regulations made under section 26, the Financial Procedure
Act 1966 applies to the Fund.

 (7) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), the net income from
investments is the amount ascertained by adding to, or deducting
from, the income received from investments of moneys in the Fund,
any profit derived or loss sustained (as the case may be) from the
realisation of the investments.

Purposes of Fund

 13.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 4F(2) of the
Prevention of Corruption Act 1960, the moneys in the Fund may
only be withdrawn and applied to meet any one or more of the
following purposes:

                                   31.12.2021
    Home Affairs Uniformed

    Services Superannuation

12  Act 2001                                   2020 Ed.

    (a) the payment of any pension, gratuity, allowance,
         compensation or other like benefit granted under the
         INVEST Plan or the Scheme;

    (b) all expenses incidental to or arising from the
         administration, investment and management of moneys
         in the Fund;

    (c) any other expenses relating to the granting of any pension,
        gratuity, allowance, compensation or other like benefit
        under the INVEST Plan or the Scheme (as the case may be)
        and expressly provided by written law to be met out of the
        Fund.

(2) The Fund comprising —

    (a) the sums appropriated from the Consolidated Fund and
         authorised to be paid into the Fund by or under any written
         law to meet its liabilities under the INVEST Plan or the
         Scheme; and

    (b) the sum referred to in section 12(2),

must not be withdrawn and applied to meet the payment of any
pension, gratuity, allowance, compensation or other like benefit
granted under the Scheme, or any other expenses relating to the
granting of any pension, gratuity, allowance, compensation or other
like benefit under the Scheme.

Administration of Fund

 14.—(1) The Fund is to be managed and administered by the Board
appointed under section 19 subject to the direction and control of the
Minister.

 (2) The Board must furnish to the Minister such information
relating to the general management and administration of the Fund as
the Minister may require.
            Home Affairs Uniformed

            Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.    Act 2001                                                13

Investment

 15.—(1) Despite section 7(3) of the Financial Procedure Act 1966,
moneys standing to the credit of the Fund which are, in the opinion of
the Board, moneys that are not for the time being required for the
purpose of making payments out of the Fund under this Act and the
INVEST Plan or the Scheme may, so far as is practicable, be invested
by the Board in such stocks, funds, securities and investments as the
Board thinks fit (but not any stock, bond or security issued by the
Government) and in any manner, but the Board must manage the
Fund so that moneys that are from time to time required to pay
benefits that are payable out of the Fund are available for that
purpose.

 (2) The Board may invest moneys standing to the credit of the Fund
that are available for investment through an investment manager or
managers who undertake to invest, and manage the investment of
those moneys on behalf of the Board.

 (3) If any investment manager is engaged by the Board under
subsection (2), the Board must ensure that the investment manager —

(a) operates within the investment powers of the Board and the
     investment strategy and policy as determined for the time
     being by the Board; and

      (b) reports to the Board on the state of its investments and the
           investment market at the times and in the manner as the
           Board determines.

(4) In this section —

“derivatives contract” has the meaning given by section 2(1) of
   the Securities and Futures Act 2001;

“effective management”, for an investment portfolio,
   includes —

          (a) the efficient exposure of the portfolio to certain assets
               or classes of assets;

          (b) the diversification of investments within the
               portfolio;

          (c) the reduction of costs relating to the portfolio; or

                                     31.12.2021
    Home Affairs Uniformed

    Services Superannuation

14                         Act 2001  2020 Ed.

    (d) the enhancement of the value of, or the returns on, the
         portfolio;

    “investments” means —

    (a) the acquisition of assets, or interests in assets, with
         the expectation of obtaining returns (whether in the
         form of capital or income) on such assets or interests;
         or

    (b) the use of financial products (including, without
         limitation, any derivatives contract) or the entering
         into financial arrangements for the purposes of
         effective management of an investment portfolio.

                                                                                           [35/2019]

Deficiencies

 16.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), where the moneys in the Fund
are insufficient to pay any pension, gratuity, allowance, compensation
or other like benefit at the time when such payment becomes due
under the INVEST Plan or the Scheme, the deficiency is charged on
and payable out of the Consolidated Fund.

 (2) Subsection (1) applies only to any pension, gratuity, allowance,
compensation or other like benefit —

       (a) in respect of any uniformed service officer referred to in
            section 4(1)(a) who opts to join the INVEST Plan; or

       (b) in respect of any officer referred to in section 4A(4)(a) of
            the Prevention of Corruption Act 1960 who opts to join the
            Scheme under that Act.

Fund surpluses

 17. The Minister may, by warrant under his or her hand, authorise
the transfer to the Consolidated Fund any moneys in the Fund which,
in the opinion of the Minister and the Minister for Finance, are not
immediately required to meet the liabilities or the purposes of the
Fund.
             Home Affairs Uniformed

             Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.     Act 2001                 15

Withdrawals

 18.—(1) Moneys must not be withdrawn from the Fund unless they
are charged upon the Fund or are authorised or directed to be
withdrawn or transferred under this Act.

 (2) Payment must not be made out of the Fund unless the payment
is authorised by the Minister.

                                    PART 4

        BOARD OF TRUSTEES AND AWARD OFFICERS

Appointment of Board

 19.—(1) A Board of Trustees is established, consisting of not less
than 5 and not more than 15 persons, all of whom must be appointed
by the Minister.

 (2) The trustees must be appointed for such period, not exceeding
3 years, as the Minister may specify in the instrument of appointment,
and are eligible for re-appointment.

 (3) A trustee holds office on such terms and conditions as are
determined by the Minister.

 (4) If at any time it appears to the Minister that removal from office
of any of the trustees is necessary in the interests of the effective and
economical performance of the functions of the Board under this Act,
the Minister may remove from office so many of those trustees as he
or she considers necessary in those interests.

 (5) All trustees are deemed to be public servants for the purposes of
the Penal Code 1871.

 (6) All trustees are deemed to be public officers for the purposes of
the Financial Procedure Act 1966 and section 20 of that Act applies to
such persons even though they are not or were not in the employment
of the Government.

                                      31.12.2021
    Home Affairs Uniformed

    Services Superannuation

16  Act 2001                                             2020 Ed.

Functions and powers of Board

 20.—(1) The functions of the Board are to manage and invest the
Fund in accordance with the provisions of this Act including, for
example, the following functions:

    (a) to advise on the interest rates for the purposes of the
         INVEST Plan or the Scheme;

    (b) to advise the Minister on proposed changes to any
         regulations made under Part 2 in relation to the INVEST
         Plan;

    (c) to exercise any other functions and duties conferred on the
        Board by or under any other written law.

 (2) The Board has power to do all things necessary or convenient to
be done for, or in connection with, the performance of its functions
and, in particular, may —

    (a) appoint agents and attorneys;

    (b) engage consultants and investment managers; and

    (c) take action to control or manage, or to enhance or protect,
        the value of, any investment made out of the Fund, or to
        enhance or protect, the return on the investment.

 (3) In exercising its functions and powers, the Board has regard
to —

    (a) the interests of members; and

    (b) any directions of the Minister on any matter that is relevant
         to the performance of its functions, duties and powers.

 (4) The trustees are not, by reason only of their having made such
appointment or engagement under subsection (2)(a) or (b),
responsible for any default of the agent, attorney, consultant or
investment manager if appointed or engaged in good faith.

Ability to delegate, etc.

 21.—(1) The Board may delegate the performance or exercise of
any of its functions or powers, either generally or specially, subject to
                Home Affairs Uniformed

                Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.               Act 2001                   17

the conditions or restrictions it thinks fit, to any of the following
persons:

(a) a trustee;

(b) a public officer;

          (c) an employee of a public authority;

       (d) an agent, a consultant or an investment manager appointed
            or engaged under section 20(2).

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (2) A delegation by the Board under subsection (1) of the
performance or exercise of any of its functions or powers to a
person (called in this Act a delegate) must be made by —

(a) resolution of the Board; and

(b) written notice given to the delegate.

                                                  [35/2019]

 (3) A delegation by the Board under subsection (1) of the
performance or exercise of any of its functions or powers to a
delegate mentioned in subsection (1)(d) may authorise that delegate
to subdelegate the performance or exercise of the function or power to
an appropriately qualified employee or contractor of that delegate
(called in this Act a subdelegate).

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (4) A subdelegation by a delegate under an authorisation given to
the delegate under subsection (3) must be subject to the same
conditions or restrictions imposed on the delegate under
subsection (1) (called in this section the original conditions or
restrictions), except that the delegate may —

(a) modify any of the original conditions or restrictions to
     apply a more stringent form of that condition or restriction
     to the subdelegate; or

(b) impose on the subdelegate any additional condition or
     restriction not inconsistent with the original conditions or
     restrictions.

                                                                                                 [35/2019]

                                                  31.12.2021
    Home Affairs Uniformed

    Services Superannuation

18  Act 2001                 2020 Ed.

 (5) Subsections (1) and (3) do not apply to any function or power
that is declared by this Act or any other written law to be
non-delegable.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (6) A subdelegate to whom a function or power of the Board is
subdelegated under an authorisation given to a delegate under
subsection (3) is not authorised to further delegate that function or
power to anyone else.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (7) A delegation or subdelegation in accordance with this section is
not affected by any change in the membership of the Board.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

Board’s delegates and subdelegates

 22.—(1) A delegate (or subdelegate) who purports to perform a
function or exercise a power of the Board under delegation (or
subdelegation) —

       (a) is taken to do so in accordance with the terms of the
            delegation (or subdelegation) under section 21, unless the
            contrary is shown; and

       (b) must produce evidence of the delegation (or
            subdelegation), if reasonably requested to do so.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]

 (2) Every delegate and subdelegate of the Board is, when
performing any function or exercising any power of the Board,
taken to be —

       (a) a public servant for the purposes of the Penal Code 1871;
            and

       (b) a public officer for the purposes of the Financial Procedure
            Act 1966, and section 20 of that Act applies to each of
            these persons even though they are not or were not in the
            employment of the Government.

                                                                                                           [35/2019]
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.                Act 2001     19

Award officers and appeal authority

23.—(1) The Minister —

(a) may appoint one or more public officers as award officers
     to assess, award or pay pensions, gratuities, allowances and
     other like benefits under the INVEST Plan; and

(b) may give such directions as he or she thinks fit to any such
     award officer in the discharge of his or her duties.

 (2) The INVEST Plan is to be administered by award officers
appointed under subsection (1) subject to the direction and control of
the Minister and, except as otherwise provided by any regulations
made under Part 2 in relation to the INVEST Plan, no award of
benefits under the INVEST Plan is subject to appeal to any court.

 (3) The Minister, or any person appointed by him or her for this
purpose, may, on appeal, review any award of benefits by any award
officer, and for this purpose may vary any award made by an award
officer, whether by increasing or decreasing the award, and the
decision of the Minister or such person so appointed is final and
conclusive and is not subject to appeal to any court.

 (4) Every appeal against any award of benefits under the INVEST
Plan must be brought within 12 months of the date the appellant is
notified of the decision of an award officer, or such longer period as
the Minister or person appointed under subsection (3) may allow in
any particular case.

                                    PART 5

                      AUDIT AND ACCOUNTING

Accounts, financial statements and audit

 24.—(1) The Board must cause to be kept proper accounts and
records of all transactions and affairs relating to the Fund and must
ensure that payments out of the Fund are correctly made and properly
authorised and that adequate control is maintained over the assets and
receipts of the Fund.

                                     31.12.2021
    Home Affairs Uniformed

    Services Superannuation

20  Act 2001                 2020 Ed.

 (2) The Minister must, as soon as practicable after the close of each
financial year, cause to be prepared and submitted financial
statements in respect of that year to the auditor referred to in
subsection (3).

 (3) The accounts and annual financial statements of the Fund must
be audited by the Auditor-General or such other auditor as may be
appointed annually by the Minister in consultation with the
Auditor-General.

 (4) A person is not qualified for appointment as an auditor under
subsection (3) unless the person is a public accountant within the
meaning of the Companies Act 1967.

                                                                                                             [5/2004]

 (5) The remuneration of the auditor must be paid out of the Fund.

 (6) As soon as the financial statements have been audited, the
auditor must send to the Minister a copy of the audited financial
statements together with a copy of any report made by the auditor.

 (7) Where the Auditor-General is not the auditor of the Fund, a
copy of the audited financial statements and any report made by the
auditor must be forwarded to the Auditor-General when they are
submitted to the Minister.

 (8) The Minister must as soon as practicable cause a copy of the
audited financial statements and of the auditor’s report to be
presented to Parliament.

 (9) The financial year of the Fund begins on 1 April of each year
and ends on 31 March of the succeeding year.

Periodic examination of Fund

 25.—(1) For successive periods of such duration, not exceeding
5 years, as the Minister may determine in each case, an examination
of the Fund must be made by a person appointed by the Minister with
a view to determining the state of the Fund having regard to its
prospective liabilities and the probable annual provisions required by
the Fund to meet those liabilities.

 (2) Despite subsection (1), where an amendment is made to the
INVEST Plan, and the amendment affects the cost of benefits payable
          Home Affairs Uniformed

          Services Superannuation

2020 Ed.  Act 2001                 21

under the INVEST Plan or creates an initial unfunded liability, the
Minister may, for the purposes of section 12(1)(a), appoint a person to
make an examination and report on the state of the Fund.

 (3) Despite subsection (1), where an amendment is made to the
Scheme, and the amendment affects the cost of benefits payable
under the Scheme or creates an initial unfunded liability, the Minister
charged with the responsibility for the Scheme may, for the purposes
of section 12(1)(a), appoint a person to make an examination and
report on the state of the Fund.

                                                                                                           [29/2002]

 (4) The person appointed under subsection (1), (2) or (3) must, at
the end of the person’s examination, report to the Minister for Finance
and the Minister referred to in subsection (2) or (3) (as the case may
be) the state of the Fund having regard to its prospective liabilities
and the probable annual provisions required by the Fund to meet
those liabilities.

                                                                                                           [29/2002]

 (5) The Minister referred to in subsection (2) or (3) (as the case may
be) must cause a copy of every such report to be presented to
Parliament forthwith after receipt of the report.

                                                                                                           [29/2002]

Regulations for administration of Fund

 26. The Minister may make regulations for the proper control and
management of the Fund and, in particular, regulations —

       (a) providing for the remuneration of the trustees;

       (b) prescribing the procedure to be followed by the Board in
            the exercise of its functions; and

       (c) relating to the accounting, reporting, auditing and periodic
            examination of the Fund.

                                   31.12.2021
                   LEGISLATIVE HISTORY

               HOME AFFAIRS UNIFORMED
               SERVICES SUPERANNUATION

                             ACT 2001

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 33 of 2001 — Home Affairs Uniformed Services Superannuation Act
                          2001

Bill           : 31/2001

First Reading  : 25 July 2001

Second and Third Readings : 13 August 2001

Commencement   : 1 October 2001

2. 2002 Revised Edition — Home Affairs Uniformed Services
                                    Superannuation Act (Chapter 126B)

Operation      : 31 July 2002

3. Act 29 of 2002 — Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2002
   (Amendments made by section 5 of the above Act)

Bill           : 29/2002

First Reading  : 1 October 2002

Second and Third Readings : 31 October 2002

Commencement   : 30 January 2003 (section 5)

4. Act 5 of 2004 — Companies (Amendment) Act 2004
   (Amendments made by section 59 read with item (5) of the Schedule to the
   above Act)

Bill           : 3/2004

First Reading  : 5 January 2004

Second and Third Readings : 6 February 2004

Commencement   : 1 April 2004 (section 59 read with
                     item (5) of the Schedule)

5. 2012 Revised Edition — Home Affairs Uniformed Services
                                    Superannuation Act (Chapter 126B)

Operation      : 31 July 2012

                                                                       31.12.2021
               ii

6. Act 4 of 2014 — Statutes (Miscellaneous Amendments) Act 2014
   (Amendments made by section 6 of the above Act)

Bill           : 25/2013

First Reading  : 11 November 2013

Second and Third Readings : 21 January 2014

Commencement   : 10 March 2014 (section 6)

7. Act 35 of 2019 — Home Affairs Uniformed Services Superannuation
                           (Amendment) Act 2019

Bill           : 28/2019

First Reading  : 7 October 2019

Second and Third Readings : 4 November 2019

Commencement   : 1 January 2020

8. Act 40 of 2018 — Insolvency, Restructuring and Dissolution Act
   (Amendments made by section 481 of the above Act)

Bill           : 32/2018

First Reading  : 10 September 2018

Second and Third Readings : 1 October 2018

Commencement   : 30 July 2020 (section 481)
                             iii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
             COMPARATIVE TABLE

        HOME AFFAIRS UNIFORMED
        SERVICES SUPERANNUATION

                      ACT 2001

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

        2020 Ed.           2012 Ed.

12—(3)            12—(2A)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (3A)
   (6)               (4)
   (7)               (5)

21                20A
22                20B
23                21
24                22
25                23

   (3)               (2A)
   (4)               (3)
   (5)               (4)
26                24

                                     31.12.2021
