THE STATUTES OF THE REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE
              TOKYO CONVENTION ACT 1971

                                            2020 REVISED EDITION

                  This revised edition incorporates all amendments up to and
       including 1 December 2021 and comes into operation on 31 December 2021.

                                            Prepared and Published by
                                     THE LAW REVISION COMMISSION

                                         UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF
                           THE REVISED EDITION OF THE LAWS ACT 1983
                                     2020 Ed.

          Tokyo Convention Act 1971

Section                 ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

     1.   Short title
     2.   Interpretation
     3.   Application of criminal law to certain act or omission on aircraft
     4.   Provisions as to extradition
     5.   Powers of commander of aircraft
     6.   Provisions as to evidence in connection with aircraft
     6A.  Protection from personal liability
     6B.  Act not to be interpreted as authorising action in certain cases
     7.   Regulations

An Act to give effect to the Convention on Offences and Certain
  Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, signed at Tokyo on
  14 September 1963, and the Protocol to Amend the Convention on
  Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft,
  signed at Montreal on 4 April 2014, and for purposes connected
  with the Convention or Protocol.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

                                                              [1 January 1972]

Short title

 1. This Act is the Tokyo Convention Act 1971.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
      “aircraft” means any aircraft, whether or not a
         Singapore-controlled aircraft, other than —
              (a) a military aircraft; or

              (b) an aircraft which, not being a military aircraft, is
                   exclusively employed in the service of the
                   Government;

                                                           1

                                                                                              31.12.2021
2  Tokyo Convention Act 1971                            2020 Ed.

   “commander”, in relation to an aircraft, means the member of
      the crew designated as commander of that aircraft by the
      operator thereof, or, failing such a person the person who is
      for the time being the pilot in command of the aircraft;

   “consular officer” means a consular officer of Singapore and
      includes a consul-general, consul, pro-consul and consular
      agent of Singapore;

   “Convention country” means a country which has been declared
      by the Minister, by notification in the Gazette, to have ratified
      or acceded to the Tokyo Convention, and has not been so
      declared to have denounced the Tokyo Convention;

   “military aircraft” means an aircraft of the naval, military or air
      forces of any country;

   “Montreal Protocol” means the Protocol to Amend the
      Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts
      Committed on Board Aircraft, signed at Montreal on
      4 April 2014;

   “operator”, in relation to any aircraft at any time, means the
      person who at that time has the management of that aircraft;

   “pilot in command”, in relation to an aircraft, means a person
      who for the time being is in charge of the piloting of the
      aircraft without being under the direction of any other pilot in
      the aircraft;

   “Protocol country” means a country which has been declared by
      the Minister, by notification in the Gazette, to have ratified or
      acceded to the Montreal Protocol, and has not been so
      declared to have denounced the Montreal Protocol;

   “Singapore-controlled aircraft” means an aircraft —

   (a) which is for the time being registered in Singapore; or

   (b) which is leased without crew to a lessee whose
        principal place of business, or (if the lessee has no
        such place of business) whose permanent residence,
        is in Singapore;
2020 Ed.  Tokyo Convention Act 1971  3

“Tokyo Convention” means the Convention on Offences and
   certain other Acts Committed on board Aircraft, signed at
   Tokyo on 14 September 1963.

                                                                                                         [32/2018]

(2) For the purposes of this Act, an aircraft is in flight —

(a) from the time when all external doors of the aircraft are
     closed following embarkation for a flight until the time
     when any such door is opened for disembarkation;

(b) if the aircraft makes a forced landing in any country or
     territory other than Singapore, from the time when all
     external doors of the aircraft are closed following
     embarkation for a flight until the time when the
     competent authorities of the country or territory in which
     the forced landing takes place take over responsibility for
     the aircraft and for the persons and property on board the
     aircraft; and

          (c) if the aircraft makes a forced landing in Singapore, from
              the time when all external doors of the aircraft are closed
              following embarkation for a flight until the time when a
              police officer arrives at the place of landing,

and any reference in this Act to an aircraft in flight includes a
reference to an aircraft during any period when the aircraft is on the
surface of the sea or land but not within the territorial limits of any
country.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (3) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, any reference
to a country or the territorial limits thereof is to be construed as
including a reference to the territorial waters (if any) of that country.

 (4) If the Minister is satisfied that the requirements of Article 18 of
the Tokyo Convention have been satisfied (which Article makes
provision as to the country which is to be treated as the country of
registration of certain aircraft operated by joint air transport
organisations or international operating agencies established by 2
or more Convention countries) the Minister may, by notification in
the Gazette, provide that for the purposes of this Act such aircraft as

                                     31.12.2021
4  Tokyo Convention Act 1971                               2020 Ed.

may be specified in the notification is to be treated as registered in
such Convention country as may be so specified.

Application of criminal law to certain act or omission on
aircraft

 3.—(1) Any act or omission taking place on board a
Singapore-controlled aircraft while in flight elsewhere than in or
over Singapore which, if taking place in Singapore, would constitute
an offence under the law in force in Singapore, shall constitute that
offence.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (2) If —

   (a) any act or omission taking place on board any aircraft (not
        being a Singapore-controlled aircraft) while in flight
        elsewhere than in or over Singapore which, if taking
        place in Singapore, would constitute an offence under the
        law in force in Singapore; and

   (b) the aircraft subsequently lands in Singapore with the
        person who committed the act or omission still on board
        the aircraft,

the act or omission constitutes that offence.

                                                           [32/2018]

 (3) Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to any act or omission
which is expressly or impliedly authorised by or under the law in
force in Singapore when taking place outside Singapore.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (4) No proceedings for any offence under the law in force in
Singapore committed on board an aircraft while in flight elsewhere
than in or over Singapore other than an offence under the Air
Navigation Act 1966 or any subsidiary legislation made under that
Act may be instituted in Singapore except by or with the consent of
the Public Prosecutor.

                                                                                                           [15/2010]

 (5) Subsection (4) does not prevent the arrest, or the issue of a
warrant for the arrest, of any person in respect of any offence, or the
2020 Ed.  Tokyo Convention Act 1971  5

remanding in custody or on bail of any person charged with any
offence.

 (6) For the purpose of conferring jurisdiction, any offence under the
law in force in Singapore committed on board an aircraft in flight is
deemed to be committed in Singapore.

Provisions as to extradition

 4.—(1) For the purposes of the application of the Extradition
Act 1968 to crimes committed on board an aircraft in flight, any
offence committed on board any aircraft in flight is to be treated as if
it had been committed not only in the place at which the offence
occurred, but also within the territory of —

       (a) a Convention country in which the aircraft is registered;

       (b) a Convention country (being also a Protocol country) in
            which the lessee of the aircraft leased without crew has its
            principal place of business or, if the lessee has no such
            place of business, has its permanent residence; or

       (c) a Convention country (being also a Protocol country) in
            which the aircraft lands, with the offender still on board.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), it does not matter whether
the aircraft mentioned in that subsection is for the time being also
within the jurisdiction of any other country.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

Powers of commander of aircraft

 5.—(1) Subsections (2), (3), (7) and (8) have effect for the purposes
of any proceeding before any court in Singapore.

 (2) If the commander of an aircraft in flight, wherever that aircraft
may be, has reasonable grounds to believe in respect of any person on
board the aircraft —

       (a) that the person in question has done or is about to do any
            act on the aircraft while it is in flight which jeopardises or
            may jeopardise —

                                     31.12.2021
6  Tokyo Convention Act 1971  2020 Ed.

   (i) the safety of the aircraft or of persons or property on
       board the aircraft; or

   (ii) good order and discipline on board the aircraft; or

   (b) that the person in question has done on the aircraft while in
        flight any act which in the opinion of the commander is a
        serious offence,

then, subject to subsection (7), the commander may take with respect
to that person such reasonable measures, including restraint of his or
her person, as may be necessary —

   (c) to protect the safety of the aircraft or of persons or property
       on board the aircraft;

   (d) to maintain good order and discipline on board the aircraft;
        or

         (e) to enable the commander to disembark or deliver that
              person in accordance with subsection (8).

                                                                                                            [32/2018]

   (3) The commander of an aircraft may —

   (a) require or authorise any member of the crew of the aircraft;
        or

   (b) request or authorise (but not require) any passenger, or air
        marshal, on board the aircraft,

to render assistance in restraining any person whom the commander
is entitled under subsection (2) to restrain.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (4) At any time when an aircraft is in flight, any member of the crew
of the aircraft or any passenger on board the aircraft may, without
being authorised by the commander, take any measures mentioned in
subsection (2) against any person on board the aircraft which the
member of the crew or passenger has reasonable grounds to believe
are immediately necessary to protect the safety of the aircraft, or of
persons or property on board the aircraft.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (5) At any time when an aircraft is in flight, any air marshal on
board the aircraft may, without being authorised by the commander,
2020 Ed.  Tokyo Convention Act 1971                              7

take any measures mentioned in subsection (2) against any person on
board the aircraft which the air marshal has reasonable grounds to
believe are immediately necessary to protect the safety of the aircraft,
or of persons on board the aircraft from —

(a) any act of unlawful interference; or

(b) the commission of any serious offence.

                                            [32/2018]

 (6) The measures taken by an air marshal in relation to the
commission of any serious offence mentioned in subsection (5)(b) are
subject to any agreement between Singapore and a Protocol country
relating to the deployment of air marshals on board an aircraft for
ensuring the security of the aircraft and persons on board the aircraft.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (7) Any restraint imposed on any person on board an aircraft under
the powers conferred by this section must not be continued after the
time when the aircraft first thereafter ceases to be in flight unless
before or as soon as is reasonably practicable after that time the
commander of the aircraft causes notification of the fact that a person
on board the aircraft is under restraint and of the reasons therefor to be
sent to an appropriate authority of the country in which the aircraft so
ceases to be in flight, but subject to such notification may be
continued after that time —

(a) for any period (including the period of any further flight)
     between that time and the first occasion thereafter on
     which the commander is able with any requisite consent of
     the appropriate authorities to disembark or deliver the
     person under restraint in accordance with subsection (8); or

(b) if the person under restraint agrees to continue his or her
     journey under restraint on board that aircraft.

(8) The commander of an aircraft —

(a) if in the case of any person on board the aircraft the
     commander has reasonable grounds —

          (i) to believe as mentioned in subsection (2)(a); and

          (ii) to believe that it is necessary to do so in order to
               protect the safety of the aircraft or of persons or

                                            31.12.2021
8  Tokyo Convention Act 1971           2020 Ed.

   property on board the aircraft or to maintain good
   order and discipline on board the aircraft,

   may disembark that person in any country in which that
   aircraft may be; and

   (b) if in the case of any person on board the aircraft the
        commander has reasonable grounds to believe as
        mentioned in subsection (2)(b), may deliver that person —

   (i) in Singapore — to a police officer or immigration
       officer; or

   (ii) in any other country which is a Convention
        country — to an officer having functions
        corresponding to the functions either of a police
        officer or of an immigration officer in Singapore.

   (9) The commander of an aircraft —

   (a) if he or she disembarks any person pursuant to
        subsection (8)(a), in the case of a Singapore-controlled
        aircraft, in any country or, in the case of any other aircraft,
        in Singapore, must report the fact of, and the reasons for,
        that disembarkation to —

   (i) an appropriate authority in the country of
       disembarkation; and

   (ii) the appropriate diplomatic or consular office of the
        country of nationality of that person;

   (b) if he or she intends to deliver any person in accordance
        with subsection (8)(b) in Singapore or, in the case of a
        Singapore-controlled aircraft, in any other country which
        is a Convention country, must before or as soon as
        reasonably practicable after landing give notification of
        his or her intention and of the reasons therefor —

   (i) where the country in question is Singapore, to a
       police officer or immigration officer or, in the case of
       any other country, to an officer having functions
       corresponding to the functions either of a police
       officer or of an immigration officer in Singapore; and
2020 Ed.  Tokyo Convention Act 1971                                  9

          (ii) in either case to the appropriate diplomatic or
               consular office of the country of nationality of that
               person,

          and any commander of an aircraft who without reasonable
          cause fails to comply with the requirements of this
          subsection shall be guilty of an offence and shall be
          liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1,000.

 (10) In this section and section 6A, “air marshal” means an
individual who is appointed —

(a) an air marshal under section 61 of the Police Force
     Act 2004; or

       (b) an air marshal (or by whatever name called) under the law
            of any Protocol country with whom Singapore has an
            agreement relating to the deployment of air marshals on
            board an aircraft for ensuring the security of the aircraft
            and persons on board the aircraft.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

 (11) In this section, “act of unlawful interference” means the doing
or attempting to do anything such as to jeopardise the safety of civil
aviation and air transport, and includes any of the following:

(a) unlawful taking control of an aircraft by force, or threat of
     force, or any other form of intimidation or by any trick or
     false pretence;

(b) destroying an aircraft that is in service;

          (c) hostage-taking on board an aircraft or at an airport;

(d) forcible intrusion on board an aircraft, at an airport or on
     the premises of an aeronautical facility that puts the safety
     of the aircraft, or any person on board or outside the
     aircraft, at risk;

          (e) introducing on board an aircraft or at an airport a weapon
              or hazardous device or material intended for criminal
              purposes;

                                                31.12.2021
10  Tokyo Convention Act 1971  2020 Ed.

    (f) use of an aircraft in service for the purpose of causing
        death, serious bodily injury or serious damage to property
        or the environment;

    (g) putting the safety of an aircraft in flight or on the ground, or
         of passengers, crew, ground personnel or the general
         public, at an airport or on the premises of a civil aviation
         facility at risk by communicating false or misleading
         information.

                                                                                                     [32/2018]

Provisions as to evidence in connection with aircraft

 6.—(1) Where in any proceeding before a court in Singapore for an
offence committed on board an aircraft the testimony of any person is
required and the court is satisfied that the person in question cannot
be found in Singapore, there shall be admissible in evidence before
that court any deposition relating to the subject matter of that
proceeding previously made on oath by that person —

       (a) in Singapore which was so made in the presence or absence
            of the person charged with the offence and before a District
            Judge or Magistrate; or

       (b) outside Singapore which was so made in the presence or
            absence of the person charged with the offence and before
            a consular officer or a judicial officer of any foreign
            country.

 (2) Any such deposition shall be authenticated by the signature of
the District Judge, Magistrate, consular officer or judicial officer
before whom it was made who shall certify that the person charged
with the offence was present or absent at the taking of the deposition.

 (3) It is not necessary in any proceeding to prove the signature or
official character of the person appearing so to have authenticated any
such deposition or to have given such certificate, and such certificate
is, unless the contrary is proved, sufficient evidence in any
proceeding that the person charged with the offence was present or
absent (as the case may be) at the making of the deposition.

 (4) If a complaint is made to a consular officer that any offence has
been committed on a Singapore-controlled aircraft while in flight
2020 Ed.  Tokyo Convention Act 1971  11

elsewhere than in or over Singapore, that officer may inquire into the
case upon oath.

 (5) In this section —

“deposition” includes any affidavit, affirmation or statement
   made upon oath; and

“oath” includes an affirmation or declaration in the case of
   persons allowed by law to affirm or declare instead of
   swearing,

and nothing in this section affects the admission as evidence of any
deposition which is admissible in evidence apart from this section.

Protection from personal liability

 6A. No liability shall lie against any of the following persons on
account of any treatment undergone by a person against whom any
action has been taken under this Act:

       (a) the commander of an aircraft;

       (b) a member of the crew of an aircraft;

       (c) a passenger on board an aircraft;

       (d) an air marshal on board an aircraft;

       (e) an owner or operator of an aircraft;

        (f) a person on whose behalf the flight of an aircraft was
            performed.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

Act not to be interpreted as authorising action in certain cases

 6B. Except for the purpose of protecting the safety of an aircraft or
of persons or property on board an aircraft, nothing in this Act is to be
interpreted as authorising or requiring any action in respect of an
offence under any law of a political nature, or based on discrimination
on any ground such as race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin,
political opinion or gender.

                                                                                                           [32/2018]

                                     31.12.2021
12           Tokyo Convention Act 1971  2020 Ed.

Regulations

 7. The Minister may make such regulations as appear to him or her
to be necessary for carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of
the Tokyo Convention.
                 LEGISLATIVE HISTORY
           TOKYO CONVENTION ACT 1971

 This Legislative History is a service provided by the Law Revision Commission
on a best-efforts basis. It is not part of the Act.

1. Act 12 of 1971 — Tokyo Convention Act, 1971

Bill            : 4/1971

First Reading   : 30 July 1971

Second and Third Readings : 19 October 1971

Commencement    : 1 January 1972

2. 1985 Revised Edition — Tokyo Convention Act (Chapter 327)

Operation       : 30 March 1987

3. Act 15 of 2010 — Criminal Procedure Code 2010
   (Amendments made by section 430 read with item 108 of the Sixth Schedule
   to the above Act)

Bill            : 11/2010

First Reading   : 26 April 2010

Second Reading  : 18 May 2010

Third Reading   : 19 May 2010

Commencement    : 2 January 2011 (section 430 read with
                      item 108 of the Sixth Schedule)

4. Act 32 of 2018 — Tokyo Convention (Amendment) Act 2018

Bill            : 22/2018

First Reading   : 17 May 2018

Second and Third Readings : 9 July 2018

Commencement    : 15 September 2018 (except sections 6
                      and 7)
                      1 January 2020 (sections 6 and 7)

                                                           31.12.2021
                             ii

                          Abbreviations

C.P.          Council Paper

G.N. No. S (N.S.) Government Notification Number Singapore (New Series)

G.N. No.      Government Notification Number

G.N. No. S    Government Notification Number Singapore

G.N. Sp. No. S Government Notification Special Number Singapore

L.A.          Legislative Assembly

L.N.          Legal Notification (Federal/Malaysian Subsidiary

              Legislation)

M. Act        Malayan Act/Malaysia Act

M. Ordinance Malayan Ordinance

Parl.         Parliament

S.S.G.G. (E) No. Straits Settlements Government Gazette (Extraordinary)
                        Number

S.S.G.G. No.  Straits Settlements Government Gazette Number
               COMPARATIVE TABLE
         TOKYO CONVENTION ACT 1971

 This Act has undergone renumbering in the 2020 Revised Edition. This
Comparative Table is provided to help readers locate the corresponding provisions
in the last Revised Edition.

         2020 Ed.           1985 Ed.

3—(2)              3—(1A)
   (3)                (1B)
   (4)                (2)
   (5)                (3)
   (6)                (4)

5—(4)              5—(3A)
   (5)                (3B)
   (6)                (3C)
   (7)                (4)
   (8)                (5)
   (9)                (6)
   (10)               (7)
   (11)               (8)

                                      31.12.2021
