         ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS ACT 2023

         (No. 24 of 2023)

         ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

         PART 1

         PRELIMINARY

Section  Short title and commencement
         Interpretation
     1.  Competent authority
     2.  Designated officers and authorised officers
     3.  Delegation by competent authority
     4.
     5.

                                        PART 2

                     DIRECTIONS AGAINST OFFENCES

 6. Part 2 direction — general
 7. Part 2 direction — given to whom
 8. Stop communication direction — content
 9. Disabling direction — content
10. Access blocking direction — content
11. Account restriction direction — content
12. App removal direction — content
13. Part 2 direction — supplementary provisions
14. Part 2 direction — self-initiated cancellation or substitution

                                        PART 3
     PART 2 DIRECTION — RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL

                                Division 1 — General
15. Part 2 direction — appellants

                           Division 2 — Reconsideration
16. Part 2 direction — application for reconsideration
17. Part 2 direction — reconsideration

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
2        NO. 24 OF 2023

Section           Division 3 — Appeal to Reviewing Tribunal
   18.   Appeal by appellant

                                           PART 4

                         DESIGNATED ONLINE SERVICES

   19. Part 4 — general
   20. Designated online service and related offence group
   21. Codes of practice — issue by competent authority
   22. Code application notice
   23. Rectification notice
   24. Implementation directive

                                           PART 5

                         APPEALS ARISING FROM PART 4

   25. Appeal to Minister — appellants
   26. Appeal to Minister
   27. Appeals Advisory Committee

                                           PART 6

                     ORDERS AGAINST NON-COMPLIANCE

   28. Part 6 order — general
   29. Access blocking order — content
   30. App removal order — content
   31. Service restriction order
   32. Part 6 order — supplementary provisions
   33. Part 6 order — self-initiated cancellation or substitution

                                           PART 7
           PART 6 ORDER — RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL

                                   Division 1 — General
   34. Part 6 order — appellants

                              Division 2 — Reconsideration
   35. Part 6 order — application for reconsideration
   36. Part 6 order — reconsideration

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
         ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                      3

Section           Division 3 — Appeal to Reviewing Tribunal
   37.   Appeal by appellant

                                        PART 8

                            REVIEWING TRIBUNALS

38. Reviewing Tribunals — composition
39. Reviewing Tribunal — remuneration and other terms
40. Reviewing Tribunal — resources
41. Reviewing Tribunal — function
42. Reviewing Tribunal — grounds for cancellation
43. Procedure before Reviewing Tribunal
44. Rules for Reviewing Tribunal proceedings

                                        PART 9
                          SERVICE OF NOTICES, ETC.

45. Service of notice, etc., given by designated officer, etc.
46. Notices, etc., to designated officer, etc.

                                       PART 10

                    POWERS TO OBTAIN INFORMATION

47. Information for administration
48. Information on online activity in furtherance of specified

         offence, etc.
49. Written notice may be given to persons outside Singapore, etc.

                                        PART 11

                 OFFENCES, PENALTIES AND DEFENCES

50. Offences of non-compliance with Part 2 directions
51. Offences of non-compliance with rectification notice or

         implementation directive
52. Offences of non-compliance with Part 6 orders
53. Offence of non-compliance with written notice under section 47

         or 48
54. Defences
55. Arrestable and bailable offences
56. Jurisdiction of courts

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
4        NO. 24 OF 2023

         PART 12

         GENERAL

Section  Immunity
         General exemption
   57.   Amendment of Schedules
   58.   Regulations
   59.   First Schedule — Specified offences and scam or
   60.
                                   malicious cyber activity offences
         Second Schedule — Offence groups
         Third Schedule — Purposes of systems, processes or

                                   measures

         Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS  5

An Act to counter online criminal activity and protect against online
  harms, and for connected purposes.
  Be it enacted by the President with the advice and consent of the

Parliament of Singapore, as follows:

             Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
6  NO. 24 OF 2023

                                    PART 1
                               PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement
 1. This Act is the Online Criminal Harms Act 2023 and comes into
operation on a date that the Minister appoints by notification in the
Gazette.

Interpretation
 2.—(1) In this Act —
      “access”, in relation to any online activity, online material,
         online location or online service, includes —
              (a) access that is subject to a precondition, such as the
                   use of a password;
              (b) access by way of push technology;
              (c) access by way of a standing request; and
              (d) access for a limited time only;
      “access blocking direction” means a direction described in
         section 10;
      “access blocking order” means an order described in section 29;
      “account” includes —
              (a) a free account;
              (b) a prepaid account; and
              (c) anything that may reasonably be regarded as the
                   equivalent of an account;
      “account restriction direction” means a direction described in
         section 11;
      “app” includes a computer program;
      “app distribution service” means an online service that enables
         the distribution or download of an app;
      “app removal direction” means a direction described in
         section 12;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     7

“app removal order” means an order described in section 30;

“authorised officer” means an authorised officer appointed
   under section 4;

“chosen means of identification”, in relation to the recipient of
   an access blocking direction or access blocking order, means
   any electronic means nominated by the recipient as the means
   by which any relevant material or relevant location, access to
   which is to be disabled in compliance with that direction or
   order, may, from time to time, be identified, and the identity
   thereof transmitted to the recipient, after that direction or
   order has been served on the recipient;

“code application notice” means a notice given under
   section 22(1);

“code of practice” or “code” means a code of practice issued
   under section 21(1), and includes a code of practice varied
   under section 21(2) or 26(7);

“competent authority” means the competent authority appointed
   under section 3;

“designated officer” means a designated officer appointed under
   section 4;

“designated online service” means an online service designated
   to be a designated online service under section 20(1);

“designated provider” means the provider of a designated online
   service;

“designated provider’s service” means the designated online
   service of a designated provider;

“disabling direction” means a direction described in section 9;

“entity” means —

        (a) a body corporate (including a limited liability
             partnership);

        (b) an unincorporated association;

        (c) a partnership;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
8  NO. 24 OF 2023

           (d) a body politic;

           (e) a body of individuals who together form a body; or

           (f) a person other than an individual;

   “functionality”, in relation to an online service, includes any
      features of the online service prescribed by regulations;

   “implementation directive” or “directive” means a directive to
      implement any system, process or measure made under
      section 24;

   “internet access service” means a telecommunication service
      between a point in Singapore and another point in Singapore
      or between 2 points, one of which is in Singapore, that
      enables access to online activity by means of the internet, but
      excludes any telecommunication service excluded by
      regulations;

.  Illustrations

   Service of an Internet Access Service Provider licensed under the
   Telecommunications Act 1999.

   Internet reseller service, localised or non‑localised.

   “material” means information or material in any form, such as
      (but not limited to) —

           (a) oral, written, electronic or digital form; and

           (b) audio, visual, pictorial or graphic form (for example,
                an anthropomorphic or humanlike depiction),

      and includes information or material in any combination of
      forms;

   “non-compliant online service” means an online service of an
      online service provider who did not comply with a Part 2
      direction, a rectification notice, an implementation directive
      or a Part 6 order, in relation to that online service or any
      online activity, online material, online account, app, online
      service or online location that can be accessed on or through
      that online service;

   Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     9

“offence group” means the offences specified in a Part of the
   Second Schedule;

“online account” means an account on an online service;

“online activity” means any activity conducted by means of the
   internet, and regulations may clarify the types of activities
   that are online activities;

“online location” means any internet domain, website, webpage,
   chatroom, channel, group, forum or any other location, that
   can be accessed by means of the internet;

“online material” means material (including any computer
   program, machine code and internet link) that can be
   accessed at an online location by means of the internet;

“online service” means the whole or any part of any service on
   or through which online activity can be conducted and which
   can be accessed by means of the internet, and regulations may
   clarify the types of services that are online services;

“online service provider” means the provider of an online
   service;

“originator”, in relation to relevant material, means the person
   who posted the relevant material, and excludes any other
   person who reposts identical copies of the relevant material
   so posted;

“owner”, for an app that is distributed or available for download
   by means of an app distribution service, means a person that
   caused the app to be distributed or available for download by
   means of the app distribution service;

“Part 2 direction” means any of the following directions:

        (a) an access blocking direction;

        (b) an account restriction direction;

        (c) an app removal direction;

        (d) a disabling direction;

        (e) a stop communication direction;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
10  NO. 24 OF 2023

    “Part 6 order” means any of the following orders:

            (a) an access blocking order;

            (b) an app removal order;

            (c) a service restriction order;

    “partnership” includes a limited partnership but not a limited
       liability partnership;

    “person” includes an individual and an entity;

    “proprietor” —

            (a) for an online location, means a person who —

                   (i) develops and maintains the online location;

                   (ii) organises, manages or supervises the use of the
                        online location;

                  (iii) manages or regulates membership of, or access
                        to, the online location; or

                  (iv) has the authority to decide whether any
                        material may be included or excluded on the
                        online location, or where to place the material
                        on the online location or otherwise exercise
                        editorial control over the online location; and

            (b) for an online account, means a person who has
                 control of the account;

    “public authority” means a body established or constituted by or
       under a public Act to perform or discharge a public function;

    “recipient”, in relation to a Part 2 direction, means a person who
       is given the Part 2 direction in accordance with section 7;

    “rectification notice” means a notice to rectify any
       non‑compliance with a code of practice made under
       section 23;

    “regulations” means regulations made under section 60;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     11

“related offence group”, in relation to a designated online
   service designated as such in relation to an offence group,
   means that offence group;

“relevant account”, in relation to a notice, direction or order
   under this Act, means an online account identified in the
   notice, direction or order;

“relevant app”, in relation to a notice, direction or order under
   this Act, means an app identified in the notice, direction or
   order;

“relevant location”, in relation to a notice, direction or order
   under this Act, means an online location identified —

        (a) in the notice, direction or order; or

        (b) by the chosen means of identification;

“relevant material”, in relation to a notice, direction or order
   under this Act, means online material identified —

        (a) in the notice, direction or order; or

        (b) by the chosen means of identification;

“relevant service”, in relation to a notice, direction or order
   under this Act, means an online service identified in the
   notice, direction or order;

“Reviewing Tribunal” means a body established by section 38;

“scam or malicious cyber activity offence” means an offence
   specified in Part 2 of the First Schedule;

“service restriction order” means an order described in
   section 31;

“Singapore end-user”, in relation to a designated online service,
   means a Singapore person who, whether or not in the course
   of business —

        (a) has access to any online activity; or

        (b) can conduct online activity,

   on or through the designated online service;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
12  NO. 24 OF 2023

      “Singapore person” means —

              (a) an individual physically present in Singapore; or

              (b) an entity which —

                     (i) is incorporated under any written law; or

                     (ii) is formed or constituted under a law of a
                          foreign country or territory but registered under
                          any written law;

      “specified offence” means an offence specified in Part 1 of the
         First Schedule;

      “stop communication direction” means a direction described in
         section 8;

      “telecommunication service” has the meaning given by section 2
         of the Telecommunications Act 1999.

 (2) In this Act, a reference to a notice, a direction, a directive or an
order under this Act includes a reference to the notice, direction,
directive or order (as the case may be) as varied or substituted under
this Act.

Competent authority

 3.—(1) The Minister may appoint —

       (a) a public officer from a Ministry or department of the
            Government; or

       (b) an employee of a public authority,

under the charge of the Minister to be the competent authority.

 (2) Subject to any general or special directions of the Minister, the
competent authority is responsible for the administration of this Act,
and may perform such duties as are imposed, and may exercise such
powers as are conferred, on the competent authority by this Act.

 (3) The Minister may from time to time give the competent
authority directions of a general character, and not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the powers and
discretions conferred on the competent authority, and the duties

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     13

imposed on the competent authority, by this Act; and the competent
authority must give effect to those directions.

Designated officers and authorised officers

 4.—(1) The Minister may appoint any of the following as a
designated officer or an authorised officer or both:

       (a) a public officer from any Ministry or department of the
            Government;

       (b) an employee of a public authority.

 (2) The appointment under subsection (1) of —

       (a) a public officer from a Ministry or department of the
            Government; or

       (b) an employee of a public authority,

under the charge of another Minister is to be made in consultation
with the other Minister.

 (3) Every designated officer or authorised officer appointed under
subsection (1)(b) is deemed to be a public servant for the purpose of
the Penal Code 1871.

 (4) A reference in subsection (1) or (2) to a public officer from a
Ministry or department of the Government or an employee of a public
authority includes a public officer from another Ministry or
department or an employee of another public authority performing
duties in the firstmentioned Ministry, department or public authority
(as the case may be) under a secondment arrangement making
available temporarily to that firstmentioned Ministry, department or
public authority the services of the public officer or employee.

 (5) The powers of a designated officer under this Act are to be
exercised subject to any directions given, and any conditions and
limitations specified, by the head of the Ministry, department or
public authority in which the designated officer is serving, or any
other person authorised by the head to give those directions or specify
the conditions and limitations.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
14  NO. 24 OF 2023

Delegation by competent authority

 5.—(1) The competent authority may delegate the exercise of all or
any of the powers or duties of the competent authority under any
provision of this Act or the regulations (except the power of
delegation conferred by this section) to one or more authorised
officers, and any reference in a provision of this Act or the regulations
to the competent authority includes a reference to an authorised
officer to whom the powers or duties under that provision have been
delegated.

 (2) Any delegation under subsection (1) may be general or in a
particular case and may be subject to such conditions or limitations as
set out in this Act or as the competent authority may specify.

 (3) The competent authority may give an authorised officer
directions of a general character, and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, as to the exercise of the powers and duties
delegated to the authorised officer under this Act; and the authorised
officer must give effect to those directions.

                                    PART 2

                 DIRECTIONS AGAINST OFFENCES

Part 2 direction — general

 6.—(1) A designated officer may give one or more Part 2 directions
in respect of online activity if the designated officer —

       (a) reasonably suspects that a specified offence has been
            committed and that any online activity is in furtherance of
            the commission of the offence; or

       (b) suspects or has reason to believe that any online activity is
            preparatory to, or in furtherance of, the commission of a
            scam or malicious cyber activity offence.

 (2) A Part 2 direction may be given to —

       (a) any individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore, whether physically present in Singapore or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
           ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                          15

            outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

       (b) any entity whether formed, constituted or registered in
            Singapore or outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a
            business or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (3) A Part 2 direction may direct a person to do an act or to not do an
act, whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

Part 2 direction — given to whom

 7. The Part 2 directions and the persons to whom they may be given
are listed in the table below:

Direction               .  Recipient may be

1. Stop communication . A person who has control of the

direction                  relevant material or the proprietor of

                           the relevant location.

2. Disabling direction     The provider of an online service,
                           excluding an internet access service
                           or app distribution service.

3. Access blocking         The provider of an internet access
   direction               service.

4. Account restriction     The provider of an online service,
   direction               excluding an internet access service
                           or app distribution service.

5. App removal direction The provider of an app distribution
                                   service.

Stop communication direction — content

 8. A stop communication direction is a direction requiring the
recipient to take all reasonable steps to do one or more of the
following, and by the time, specified in the direction, such that the
relevant material, online material similar to it or the relevant location
(as the case may be) cannot be accessed by Singapore persons:

       (a) to remove the relevant material;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
16  NO. 24 OF 2023

       (b) to stop storing, posting, providing or transmitting any
            online material similar to the relevant material;

       (c) to disable access to the relevant location.

Disabling direction — content

 9. A disabling direction is a direction requiring the recipient to take
all reasonable steps to disable access by Singapore persons to one or
more of the following, and by the time, specified in the direction:

       (a) any relevant material stored, posted, provided or
            transmitted on or through the recipient’s online service;

       (b) any identical copies of the relevant material stored, posted,
            provided or transmitted on or through the recipient’s online
            service;

       (c) any relevant location on the recipient’s online service.

Access blocking direction — content

 10. An access blocking direction is a direction requiring the
recipient to take all reasonable steps to disable access by Singapore
persons by means of the recipient’s internet access service to any
relevant material or relevant location, by the time specified in the
direction.

Account restriction direction — content

 11.—(1) An account restriction direction is a direction requiring the
recipient to take all reasonable steps to disallow or restrict interaction
between any relevant account on the recipient’s online service and
Singapore persons, by the time specified in the direction.

 (2) Reasonable steps may include the termination, suspension or
restriction of one or more functionalities of the online service in
relation to the relevant account if this is necessary to comply with
subsection (1).

App removal direction — content

 12. An app removal direction is a direction requiring the recipient
to take all reasonable steps to stop distributing a relevant app to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     17

Singapore persons and stop enabling Singapore persons to download
a relevant app, by means of the recipient’s app distribution service, by
the time specified in the direction.

Part 2 direction — supplementary provisions

 13.—(1) A Part 2 direction may be given to a person either
individually or as a class.

 (2) A Part 2 direction is binding on —

       (a) the recipient; and

       (b) if applicable, the personal representatives, successors and
            assignees of the recipient to the same extent as it applies to
            the recipient.

 (3) It is not necessary to give any person who may be affected by a
Part 2 direction a chance to be heard before the direction is given.

 (4) A Part 2 direction must —

       (a) so far as is reasonably practicable, identify the relevant
            account, relevant app, relevant material or relevant
            location (as the case may be) to which the direction
            relates in a way that is sufficient to enable the person given
            the direction to comply with the direction;

       (b) state whether the recipient must do all or any of the
            following, whichever being applicable:

               (i) notify the competent authority by the time specified
                   in the direction of the means by which the person
                   proposes to comply with the direction;

              (ii) keep information about the matters that are the
                   subject of the direction for a time specified in the
                   direction;

             (iii) regularly notify the competent authority at the times
                   specified in the direction about the steps being taken
                   towards compliance with the direction;

             (iv) give written notice to the competent authority when
                   the person has complied with the direction; and

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
18  NO. 24 OF 2023

       (c) state that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply
            with the direction.

 (5) The recipient of a Part 2 direction must comply with the Part 2
direction until the earlier of the following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date and time (if any) stated in the direction is
            reached;

       (b) the Part 2 direction is cancelled or substituted under
            section 14(1) or 17(1), or cancelled under section 41(3).

 (6) An access blocking direction may specify that relevant
materials or relevant locations, or both (as the case may be) will be
identified and the identities thereof transmitted to the recipient, from
time to time, by the recipient’s chosen means of identification.

 (7) An access blocking direction described in subsection (6) that
has been given to the recipient is deemed to be given in relation to any
relevant material or relevant location that is subsequently identified
and the identity of which is transmitted to the recipient by the
recipient’s chosen means of identification, when data identifying the
relevant material or the relevant location (as the case may be)
becomes accessible by the recipient by that means.

 (8) An access blocking direction described in subsection (6) is
deemed to be cancelled (in relation to any relevant material or
relevant location that was identified and the identity of which was
transmitted to the recipient by the recipient’s chosen means of
identification) when the data identifying the relevant material or
relevant location is no longer accessible by the recipient by that
means, and in such a case no written notice of the cancellation needs
to be given to the recipient.

Part 2 direction — self-initiated cancellation or substitution

 14.—(1) A designated officer may at any time, on his or her own
initiative —

       (a) cancel a Part 2 direction; or

       (b) substitute a Part 2 direction with another Part 2 direction.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     19

 (2) Where a Part 2 direction is cancelled under subsection (1)(a),
written notice of the cancellation must be given to every person who
has been given that Part 2 direction.

                                    PART 3
 PART 2 DIRECTION — RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL

                            Division 1 — General
Part 2 direction — appellants

 15. The persons who may apply for reconsideration of, or appeal
against, each type of Part 2 direction are listed in the table below:

Type of Part 2 direction .        Appellant

1. Stop communication             The recipient.
   direction                      (a) The recipient.

2. Disabling direction

                                  (b) The proprietor of the
                                       relevant location.

                                  (c) The originator of the
                                       relevant material.

3. Access blocking direction      (a) The recipient.

                                  (b) The proprietor of the
                                       relevant location.

4. Account restriction direction  (c) The originator of the
                                       relevant material.

                                  (a) The recipient.

5. App removal direction          (b) The proprietor of the
                                       relevant account.

                                  (a) The recipient.

                                  (b) The owner of the relevant
                                       app.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
20  NO. 24 OF 2023

                       Division 2 — Reconsideration
Part 2 direction — application for reconsideration

 16.—(1) An appellant may apply for reconsideration by a
designated officer of a Part 2 direction.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made —
       (a) in a prescribed manner; and
       (b) not later than 30 days after being given the Part 2 direction.

 (3) An application for reconsideration does not affect the operation
of the Part 2 direction concerned.

Part 2 direction — reconsideration
 17.—(1) A designated officer must, within a reasonable time after

receipt of any application to reconsider a Part 2 direction under
section 16 —

       (a) affirm the Part 2 direction;
       (b) cancel the Part 2 direction; or
       (c) substitute the Part 2 direction with another Part 2 direction.
 (2) The designated officer must give notice of the decision under
subsection (1) to the appellant and the recipient of the Part 2 direction
(if that person is not the appellant).

              Division 3 — Appeal to Reviewing Tribunal

Appeal by appellant

 18.—(1) An appellant who receives notice under section 17(2) of
the decision to affirm or substitute the Part 2 direction concerned
may, on payment of such fee as may be prescribed, appeal against the
Part 2 direction to a Reviewing Tribunal in accordance with Part 8.

 (2) An appeal under subsection (1) does not affect the operation of
the Part 2 direction appealed against.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     21

                                    PART 4

                  DESIGNATED ONLINE SERVICES

Part 4 — general

 19.—(1) The purpose of this Part is to counter the commission of
offences specified in the Second Schedule by —

       (a) promoting or requiring good practices by a designated
            provider against the commission of offences within a
            related offence group of its designated online service; and

       (b) requiring a designated provider to implement appropriate
            systems, processes or measures for one or more of the
            purposes set out in the Third Schedule in relation to a
            related offence group of its designated online service.

 (2) The online service of an online service provider may be
designated under section 20, and a code application notice, a
rectification notice or an implementation directive may be given to
a designated provider —

       (a) whether or not the designated provider (being an
            individual) is a resident or citizen of Singapore, whether
            he or she is physically present in Singapore or outside
            Singapore, and whether he or she is carrying on a business
            or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

       (b) whether the designated provider (being an entity) is
            formed, constituted or registered in Singapore or outside
            Singapore, and whether it is carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (3) A code of practice, a rectification notice or an implementation
directive may require a person to do an act or to not do an act, whether
in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (4) A requirement of a code of practice has effect despite —

       (a) a duty of confidentiality or privacy imposed by any rule of
            law; or

       (b) a duty imposed by any contract or any rule of professional
            conduct,

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
22  NO. 24 OF 2023

that would otherwise prevent or restrict the person from complying
with the requirement.

Designated online service and related offence group

 20.—(1) The competent authority may designate an online service
of an online service provider as a designated online service in relation
to one or more offence groups, if the competent authority is satisfied
that —

       (a) the online service is or is likely to be used in the facilitation
            or commission of any offence or offences within that
            offence group or each of those offence groups; and

       (b) the online service or any online activity conducted on or
            through the online service can be accessed by Singapore
            persons.

 (2) The competent authority must give a notice of the designation to
the provider of the designated online service, identifying the
designated online service and specifying the related offence group
or groups of the designated online service and the date the designation
takes effect.

 (3) The designation of a designated online service in relation to a
related offence group under subsection (1) may be revoked at any
time by the competent authority; and the competent authority must
give a notice of the revocation to the provider of the designated online
service concerned.

 (4) In subsection (1), a reference to facilitation of an offence
includes conducting any online activity on or through the online
service, where the activity is preparatory to, or in furtherance of, the
commission of the offence.

Codes of practice — issue by competent authority

 21.—(1) The competent authority may, for the purpose mentioned
in section 19, issue one or more codes of practice applicable to —

       (a) any type of online service in relation to any offence group;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     23

       (b) a particular designated provider’s service in relation to any
            related offence group of that service.

 (2) The competent authority may at any time —

       (a) vary a code of practice (including by adding anything to it);
            or

       (b) revoke a code of practice.

 (3) If any provision in a code of practice is inconsistent with any
provision of this Act, that provision —

       (a) has effect subject to this Act; or

       (b) having regard to this Act and the regulations, has no effect.

 (4) A code of practice issued under this section does not have
legislative effect.

Code application notice

 22.—(1) The competent authority may give notice to a designated
provider that a code of practice applies to the designated provider’s
service only if —

       (a) the code of practice is one that is specifically applicable to
            the designated provider’s service in relation to any related
            offence group of that service; or

       (b) where the code is one that is generally applicable to a type
            of online service in relation to any offence group —

               (i) the designated provider’s service is of that type; and

              (ii) the offence group is a related offence group of the
                   designated provider’s service.

 (2) The code application notice must identify the designated
provider’s service, the related offence group to which the code of
practice relates and the date of application of the code of practice.

 (3) The competent authority may, for such time as the competent
authority may specify, waive the application of a code of practice (or
any part of the code of practice) to a designated provider.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
24  NO. 24 OF 2023

 (4) The competent authority may at any time, on the competent
authority’s own initiative, cancel a code application notice, and must
give written notice of the cancellation to the designated provider that
was given the code application notice.

 (5) Subject to this section and section 21(3), the designated
provider must take all reasonably practicable steps to comply with
every code of practice applicable to the designated provider’s service.

Rectification notice

 23.—(1) If, whether upon a review of a report given pursuant to a
code of practice or otherwise, the competent authority is of the
opinion that a designated provider has not complied with any part of a
code of practice that applies to the designated provider’s service, the
competent authority may give the designated provider a notice to
rectify the non‑compliance with the code within the permitted time.

 (2) A rectification notice under subsection (1) must set out —

       (a) details of the non-compliance with the code of practice;
            and

       (b) the time within which the non-compliance must be
            rectified.

 (3) The competent authority may extend the time within which the
non‑compliance identified in the notice must be rectified.

 (4) In subsection (1), “permitted time” means the time within which
the non‑compliance must be rectified as set out in the notice or, if the
time has been extended under subsection (3), the extended time
notified to the designated provider.

Implementation directive

 24.—(1) The competent authority may give a designated provider a
directive to implement any system, process or measure, within the
permitted time, if the competent authority is satisfied that the system,
process or measure is necessary or expedient for the furtherance of
the purpose in section 19.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     25

 (2) An implementation directive must set out —

       (a) details of the system, process or measure to be
            implemented; and

       (b) the time within which the system, process or measure must
            be implemented.

 (3) The competent authority may extend the time within which the
system, process or measure specified in the implementation directive
must be implemented.

 (4) In subsection (1), “permitted time” means the time within which
the system, process or measure must be implemented as set out in the
implementation directive or, if the time has been extended under
subsection (3), the extended time notified to the designated provider.

 (5) The competent authority may at any time, on the competent
authority’s own initiative —

       (a) cancel an implementation directive; or

       (b) substitute an implementation directive with another
            implementation directive.

 (6) Where an implementation directive is cancelled under
subsection (5)(a), written notice of the cancellation must be given
to the designated provider that has been given that directive.

                                    PART 5
                  APPEALS ARISING FROM PART 4
Appeal to Minister — appellants
 25. The persons who may appeal against each type of decision or
requirement under Part 4 are listed in the table below:

Type of decision or requirement .     Appellant

1. Decision to designate an online .  The provider of the online
   service as a designated online     service given a notice of
   service under section 20(1)        that decision under
                                      section 20(2).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
26  NO. 24 OF 2023

Type of decision or requirement .  Appellant

2. Decision to give a code         The designated provider
   application notice to a         given a code application
   designated provider under       notice.
   section 22(1)

3. A requirement in a code of      The designated provider.
   practice applicable to a
   designated provider issued
   under section 21(1) or varied
   under section 21(2)

4. A requirement in an             The designated provider that
   implementation directive        is given the implementation
   given under section 24(1) or a  directive or substitute
   substitute implementation       implementation directive.
   directive given under
   section 24(5)(b)

Appeal to Minister

 26.—(1) An appellant may appeal to the Minister against a decision
or requirement mentioned in section 25 in the manner prescribed.

 (2) An appeal under subsection (1) must be made not later than
30 days after —

       (a) if the appeal is against a decision to give a code application
            notice or a requirement in an implementation directive —
            the date of service of the code application notice or the
            implementation directive, as the case may be;

       (b) if the appeal is against a decision to designate an online
            service as a designated online service, or a requirement in a
            code of practice (or a variation thereof) — the date the
            designation or requirement in the code or variation thereof
            (as the case may be) takes effect in respect of the appellant;
            or

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     27

       (c) such longer period as the Minister allows in a particular
            case (whether allowed before or after the end of the
            30 days).

 (3) Any person who appeals to the Minister under subsection (1)
must —

       (a) in the appeal, state as concisely as possible the
            circumstances under which the appeal arises, and the
            issues and grounds for the appeal; and

       (b) submit the appeal to the Minister together with all relevant
            facts, evidence and arguments for the appeal, within the
            period specified in subsection (2).

 (4) Where an appeal has been made to the Minister under
subsection (1), the Minister may require any party to the appeal to
provide the Minister with such information as the Minister may
require, whether for the purpose of deciding if an Appeals Advisory
Committee should be established or for determining the appeal, and
any person so required must provide the information in such manner
and within such period as may be specified by the Minister.

 (5) The Minister is not under any duty to hear, consider or
determine any appeal if —

       (a) the appellant does not comply with subsection (3) or (4); or

       (b) it appears that the bringing of the appeal is or the
            proceedings of the appeal are frivolous or vexatious.

 (6) The decision or requirement appealed against must be complied
with until the determination of the appeal.

 (7) The Minister may determine an appeal under this section by
confirming, varying or cancelling the decision or requirement
appealed against.

 (8) The decision of the Minister in any appeal is final.

 (9) The Minister may make regulations in respect of the manner in
which an appeal may be made to, and the procedure to be adopted in
the hearing of any appeal by, the Minister under this section.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
28  NO. 24 OF 2023

Appeals Advisory Committee

 27.—(1) The Minister may appoint an Appeals Advisory
Committee comprising one or more individuals with suitable
experience to provide advice to the Minister with regard to an
appeal under section 26.

 (2) Before determining an appeal under section 26(7), the Minister
may consult the Appeals Advisory Committee in respect of the appeal
but, in making the determination, is not bound by such consultation.

 (3) The remuneration and allowances (if any) of a member of an
Appeals Advisory Committee are to be determined by the Minister.

 (4) An Appeals Advisory Committee is independent in the
performance of its functions.

                                    PART 6

              ORDERS AGAINST NON-COMPLIANCE

Part 6 order — general

 28.—(1) The competent authority may give a Part 6 order if any
person has not complied with a requirement of a Part 2 direction, a
rectification notice, an implementation directive or a Part 6 order.

 (2) A Part 6 order may be given to —

       (a) any individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore, whether physically present in Singapore or
            outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

       (b) any entity whether formed, constituted or registered in
            Singapore or outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a
            business or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (3) A Part 6 order may direct a person to do an act or to not do an
act, whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

Access blocking order — content

 29.—(1) An access blocking order is an order requiring the
provider of an internet access service to take all reasonable steps to

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     29

disable access by Singapore persons to the relevant location by means
of that internet access service, by the time specified in the access
blocking order.

 (2) The relevant location specified in the access blocking order
must be —

       (a) an online location of a proprietor who did not comply with
            a Part 2 direction in respect of that online location or online
            material accessible at that online location; or

       (b) an online location at which an online service of an online
            service provider can be accessed, if the online service
            provider did not comply with a Part 2 direction, a
            rectification notice, an implementation directive or a
            Part 6 order, in relation to —

               (i) that online service; or

              (ii) any online activity, online service, online material,
                   online account, app or online location that can be
                   accessed on or through that online service.

App removal order — content

 30.—(1) An app removal order is an order requiring the provider of
an app distribution service to stop distributing a relevant app to
Singapore persons and stop enabling Singapore persons to download
a relevant app by means of that service, by the time specified in the
app removal order.

 (2) The relevant app specified in the app removal order must be an
app that allows any of the following online locations to be accessed:

       (a) an online location of a proprietor who did not comply with
            a Part 2 direction in respect of that online location or online
            material accessible at that online location;

       (b) an online location at which an online service of an online
            service provider can be accessed, if the online service
            provider did not comply with a Part 2 direction, a
            rectification notice, an implementation directive or a
            Part 6 order, in relation to —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
30  NO. 24 OF 2023

               (i) that online service; or

              (ii) any online activity, online service, online material,
                   online account, app or online location that can be
                   accessed on or through that online service.

Service restriction order

 31. A service restriction order is an order requiring the provider of a
non‑compliant online service specified in the order to take all
reasonable steps to suspend or stop the supply or provision of that
online service or part of that online service to Singapore persons, by
the time specified in the service restriction order.

Part 6 order — supplementary provisions

 32.—(1) The competent authority may give a Part 6 order to a
person individually or as a class.

 (2) A Part 6 order is binding on —

       (a) the person to whom it is addressed; and

       (b) if applicable, the personal representatives, successors and
            assignees of the person to whom it is addressed to the same
            extent as it applies to that person.

 (3) It is not necessary to give any person who may be affected by a
Part 6 order a chance to be heard before the order is given.

 (4) A Part 6 order must —

       (a) so far as is reasonably practicable, identify the relevant
            location, the relevant app or the relevant service (as the
            case may be) to which the order relates in a way that is
            sufficient to enable the person given the order to comply
            with the order;

       (b) state whether the person to whom it is given must do all or
            any of the following, whichever being applicable:

               (i) notify the competent authority by a time specified in
                   the order of the means by which the person proposes
                   to comply with the order;

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     31

              (ii) keep information about the matters that are the
                   subject of the order for a time specified in the order;

             (iii) regularly notify the competent authority at the times
                   specified in the order about the steps being taken
                   towards compliance with the order;

             (iv) give written notice to the competent authority when
                   the person has complied with the order; and

       (c) state that it is an offence under this Act to fail to comply
            with the order.

 (5) A person who has been given a Part 6 order must comply with
the Part 6 order until the earlier of the following occurs:

       (a) the expiry date and time (if any) stated in the order is
            reached;

       (b) the Part 6 order is cancelled or substituted under
            section 33(1) or 36(1), or cancelled under section 41(3).

 (6) An access blocking order may specify that relevant locations
will be identified and the identity thereof transmitted to the person to
whom the order is addressed, from time to time, by the person’s
chosen means of identification.

 (7) An access blocking order described in subsection (6) that has
been given to the person to whom it is addressed is deemed to be
given in relation to any relevant location that is subsequently
identified and the identity of which is transmitted to the recipient by
the person’s chosen means of identification, when data identifying the
relevant location becomes accessible by the person by that means.

 (8) An access blocking order described in subsection (6) is deemed
to be cancelled (in relation to any relevant location that was identified
and the identity of which was transmitted to the person by that
person’s chosen means of identification) when the data identifying
the relevant location is no longer accessible by that person by that
means, and in such a case no written notice of the cancellation needs
to be given to that person.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
32                    NO. 24 OF 2023

Part 6 order — self-initiated cancellation or substitution

 33.—(1) The competent authority may at any time, on the
competent authority’s own initiative —

       (a) cancel a Part 6 order; or

       (b) substitute a Part 6 order with another Part 6 order.

 (2) Where a Part 6 order is cancelled under subsection (1), the
competent authority must give written notice of the cancellation to
every person who has been given that Part 6 order.

                                    PART 7
    PART 6 ORDER — RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL

                            Division 1 — General
Part 6 order — appellants

 34. The persons who may apply for reconsideration of, or appeal
against, each type of Part 6 order are listed in the table below:

    Type of Part 6 order      .       Appellant
1. Access blocking order
                              . (a) The provider of an internet
                                      access service that was
                                      given the order.

                                 (b) The proprietor of the
                                      relevant location.

2. App removal order             (a) The provider of an app
                                      distribution service that
                                      was given the order.

                                 (b) The owner of the relevant
                                      app.

3. Service restriction order     The online service provider that
                                 was given the order.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     33

                       Division 2 — Reconsideration
Part 6 order — application for reconsideration

 35.—(1) An appellant may apply to the competent authority for
reconsideration of a Part 6 order.

 (2) An application under subsection (1) must be made —
       (a) in a prescribed manner; and
       (b) not later than 30 days after being given the Part 6 order.

 (3) An application for reconsideration does not affect the operation
of the Part 6 order concerned.

Part 6 order — reconsideration
 36.—(1) The competent authority must, within a reasonable time

after receipt of any application to reconsider a Part 6 order under
section 35 —

       (a) affirm the Part 6 order;
       (b) cancel the Part 6 order; or
       (c) substitute the Part 6 order with another Part 6 order.
 (2) The competent authority must give written notice of the
decision under subsection (1) to the appellant, and the person to
whom the Part 6 order was given (if that person is not the appellant).

              Division 3 — Appeal to Reviewing Tribunal

Appeal by appellant

 37.—(1) An appellant who receives notice under section 36(2) of
the decision to affirm or substitute the Part 6 order concerned may, on
payment of such fee as may be prescribed, appeal against the Part 6
order to a Reviewing Tribunal in accordance with Part 8.

 (2) An appeal under subsection (1) does not affect the operation of
the Part 6 order appealed against.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
34  NO. 24 OF 2023

                                    PART 8

                        REVIEWING TRIBUNALS

Reviewing Tribunals — composition

 38.—(1) One or more bodies each called a Reviewing Tribunal are
established by this section.

 (2) Every Reviewing Tribunal consists of a District Judge or
Magistrate (called in this Part the member) appointed by the President
on the advice of the Cabinet, subject to subsection (3).

 (3) An individual must not be, or be appointed as, the member of
any Reviewing Tribunal if he or she is not a citizen of Singapore.

 (4) The member must vacate office at the end of a period of 3 years
starting the day of his or her appointment, but is eligible for
reappointment.

 (5) The member may resign his or her office by giving written
notice to the President.

 (6) In the performance of his or her functions and duties under this
Act, the member has the same protection and immunity as a District
Judge or Magistrate, as the case may be.

 (7) The proceedings of a Reviewing Tribunal are deemed to be
judicial proceedings and the member is deemed to be a public servant
within the meaning of the Penal Code 1871.

Reviewing Tribunal — remuneration and other terms

 39.—(1) The Minister may pay to the member out of moneys
provided by Parliament such remuneration or allowances as the
Minister may, with the approval of the President, fix.

 (2) The remuneration and other terms of service of the member
must not be altered to his or her disadvantage during his or her
continuance in office as such.

Reviewing Tribunal — resources

 40.—(1) All expenses of every Reviewing Tribunal are to be
defrayed out of moneys provided by Parliament.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     35

 (2) The Minister must appoint a Secretary to the Reviewing
Tribunals and such other public officers as are necessary for the
Reviewing Tribunals to discharge their functions under this Act.

Reviewing Tribunal — function

 41.—(1) It is the function and duty of every Reviewing Tribunal to
consider and determine any appeal made under section 18 or 37 and
served on the Secretary to the Reviewing Tribunals.

 (2) However, a Reviewing Tribunal may summarily dismiss any
appeal which it determines to be frivolous or vexatious.

 (3) A Reviewing Tribunal may determine an appeal made to the
Reviewing Tribunal by affirming or cancelling the Part 2 direction or
Part 6 order, as the case may be.

 (4) Every Reviewing Tribunal has to carry out its work
expeditiously.

 (5) A Reviewing Tribunal’s decision under subsection (3) is final.

Reviewing Tribunal — grounds for cancellation

 42.—(1) A Reviewing Tribunal may only cancel a Part 2 direction
under section 41(3) on any of the following grounds:

       (a) the requirements of section 6(1) were not satisfied;

       (b) the person that was given the direction was not a person to
            whom the direction may be given under section 7;

       (c) it is not reasonably practicable to comply with the
            direction.

 (2) A Reviewing Tribunal may only cancel an access blocking
order under section 41(3) on any of the following grounds:

       (a) the online location specified in the access blocking order
            does not satisfy section 29(2);

       (b) the person that was given the order was not the provider of
            an internet access service;

       (c) it is not reasonably practicable to comply with the order.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
36  NO. 24 OF 2023

 (3) A Reviewing Tribunal may only cancel an app removal order
under section 41(3) on any of the following grounds:

       (a) the app specified in the app removal order does not satisfy
            section 30(2);

       (b) the person that was given the order was not the provider of
            an app distribution service;

       (c) it is not reasonably practicable to comply with the order.

 (4) A Reviewing Tribunal may only cancel a service restriction
order under section 41(3) on any of the following grounds:

       (a) the person that was given the order was not the provider of
            a non-compliant online service;

       (b) the online service specified in the order was not a
            non‑compliant online service;

       (c) it is not reasonably practicable to comply with the order.

Procedure before Reviewing Tribunal

 43.—(1) Except where a Reviewing Tribunal, having regard to all
the circumstances, is satisfied that it is equitable to do so, the
Reviewing Tribunal must not consider or determine any appeal
against a Part 2 direction under section 18 or a Part 6 order under
section 37, if the appeal is made more than 30 days after the notice of
a decision relating to the direction or order is given under
section 17(2) or 36(2), as the case may be.

 (2) A Reviewing Tribunal may at any stage in the appeal
proceedings, and without calling for a defence, dismiss an appeal
made to or before it if the Reviewing Tribunal is satisfied that —

       (a) the appellant is not a person entitled to appeal under
            section 15 (in the case of a Part 2 direction) or 34 (in the
            case of a Part 6 order);

       (b) the bringing of the appeal is or the proceedings of the
            appeal are frivolous or vexatious, and for this purpose the
            Reviewing Tribunal may take into account whether the
            appellant has habitually and persistently, and without any

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     37

            reasonable ground, made vexatious appeals to any
            Reviewing Tribunal; or

       (c) the appellant has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
            comply with the time delimited by any provision of rules
            made under section 44 for the submission of any notice,
            document or other information in the appeal proceedings,
            or with any direction of the Reviewing Tribunal under
            those rules.

 (3) Subject to the rules made under section 44, every Reviewing
Tribunal is entitled to determine its own procedure in relation to any
appeal under section 18 or 37 made to or before the Reviewing
Tribunal.

Rules for Reviewing Tribunal proceedings

 44.—(1) Rules may be made by the Minister to prescribe the
practice and procedure to be followed on, or in connection with, the
hearing or consideration of any proceedings or appeal (including,
where applicable, the mode and burden of proof and the admissibility
of evidence) before a Reviewing Tribunal.

 (2) In particular, the rules made under subsection (1) may
include —

       (a) requiring persons making an appeal to take such
            preliminary steps, and to make such disclosures, as may
            be specified in the rules for the purpose of facilitating a
            determination whether the making of the appeal is
            frivolous or vexatious;

       (b) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to hear or
            consider any proceedings or appeal without the person who
            brought the appeal having been given full particulars of the
            reasons for any conduct which is the subject of the
            proceedings or appeal;

       (c) the need to secure that matters which are the subject of
            proceedings or appeals brought before or made to a
            Reviewing Tribunal are properly heard and considered;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
38  NO. 24 OF 2023

       (d) prescribing the circumstances and manner in which
            appeals in relation to the same decision, or that involve
            the same or similar issues, may be consolidated or heard
            together;

       (e) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to take any
            steps in exercise of its jurisdiction in the absence of any
            person (including the person bringing the proceedings or
            making the appeal and any legal representative of the
            person);

        (f) enabling or requiring a Reviewing Tribunal to give a
            summary of any evidence taken in the absence of the
            person bringing the proceedings or making the appeal, to
            that person;

       (g) securing that information is not disclosed to an extent, or in
            a manner, that is contrary to Singapore’s national security,
            the prevention or detection of serious crime, the economic
            wellbeing of Singapore or the continued discharge of the
            functions of any of the intelligence services of Singapore;
            and

       (h) providing for the manner in which the interests of a person
            who has made an appeal under section 18 or 37 are to be
            represented, such as for the appointment in accordance
            with the rules, by such person as may be determined in
            accordance with the rules, of a person to represent those
            interests.

 (3) All rules made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

                                    PART 9

                      SERVICE OF NOTICES, ETC.

Service of notice, etc., given by designated officer, etc.

 45.—(1) Any notice, direction, directive, order or other document
permitted or required to be given under this Act by a designated
officer, the competent authority, an authorised officer, a police officer

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     39

or an enforcement officer (called in this section document to be
served) may be served on —

       (a) the person to whom it is addressed (whether in Singapore
            or outside Singapore); or

       (b) a person in Singapore that the person to whom the
            document is addressed has appointed to receive the
            document on the person’s behalf.

 (2) A document to be served on an individual may be served —

       (a) by giving it to the individual personally;

       (b) by sending it by post to the address specified by the
            individual for the service of documents or, if no address is
            so specified, the individual’s residential address or
            business address;

       (c) by leaving it at the individual’s residential address with an
            adult apparently resident there, or at the individual’s
            business address with an adult apparently employed there;

       (d) by affixing a copy of the document in a conspicuous place
            at the individual’s residential address or business address;
            or

       (e) by sending it by fax to the fax number last known to the
            person giving or serving the document as the fax number
            for the service of documents on the individual.

 (3) A document to be served on a partnership (other than a limited
liability partnership) may be served —

       (a) by giving it to any partner, secretary or other similar officer
            of the partnership;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the
            partnership’s business address; or

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the
            partnership’s business address.

 (4) A document to be served on a body corporate (including a
limited liability partnership) or an unincorporated association may be
served —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
40  NO. 24 OF 2023

       (a) by giving it to the secretary or other similar officer of the
            body corporate or unincorporated association, or the
            limited liability partnership’s manager;

       (b) by leaving it at, or by sending it by post to, the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association; or

       (c) by sending it by fax to the fax number used at the registered
            office or principal office in Singapore of the body
            corporate or unincorporated association.

 (5) In addition, a document to be served on an individual or entity
(called in this subsection the addressee) may be served —

       (a) by giving an electronic notice to the addressee by the
            addressee’s chosen means of notification, stating that the
            document is available for access and how the addressee
            may use the addressee’s chosen means of access to access
            the document’s contents;

       (b) where, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, the name of
            the addressee, or the business address, residential address
            or last email address of the addressee, cannot be
            ascertained, by posting it on an official website; or

       (c) by any other means (including electronic means) for the
            service of documents of that kind that may be prescribed
            by regulations.

 (6) A document to be served that is addressed to a class of persons
may be —

       (a) served on each of the persons in the class in accordance
            with subsection (2), (3), (4) or (5), as the case may be; or

       (b) served by publishing both —

               (i) in a daily newspaper circulating in Singapore or in
                   any other news media that, in the opinion of the
                   person serving the document, will be most likely to
                   bring the document to the attention of the persons
                   who belong to the class; and

              (ii) on an official website.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     41

 (7) Subject to subsection (8), service of a document to be served
takes effect —

       (a) if the document is sent by fax and a notification of
            successful transmission is received — on the day of
            transmission;

       (b) if the document is sent by post — 2 days after the day the
            document was posted (even if it is returned undelivered);

       (c) if the document is posted on an official website mentioned
            in subsection (5)(b) — at the beginning of the day after the
            date on which subsection (5)(b) has been complied with; or

       (d) at any other time prescribed by regulations for any other
            means of service.

 (8) Service of a document to be served that is addressed to a class of
persons takes effect —

       (a) where it is served in accordance with subsection (6)(a) —
            when it is served on all the persons in the class in question;
            and

       (b) where it is served in accordance with subsection (6)(b) —
            at the beginning of the day after the date on which
            subsection (6)(b) has been complied with.

 (9) To avoid doubt, subsections (7) and (8) do not affect the
meaning of any reasonable excuse in section 50, 51, 52 or 53.

 (10) An affidavit or oral evidence of a designated officer, the
competent authority, an authorised officer, a police officer or an
enforcement officer as to the service of any notice, direction,
directive, order or other document to be served under this Act is
admissible as prima facie proof of service of the document.

 (11) In this section —

      “business address” means —

              (a) in the case of an individual, the individual’s usual or
                   last known place of business in Singapore or outside
                   Singapore; or

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
42  NO. 24 OF 2023

              (b) in the case of a partnership (other than a limited
                   liability partnership), the partnership’s principal or
                   last known place of business in Singapore or outside
                   Singapore;

      “chosen means of access”, for an addressee on whom is or is to
         be served a document, means an electronic means the
         addressee agrees with the person serving the document as
         the means by which the addressee may access that
         document’s contents;

      “chosen means of notification”, for an addressee on whom is or
         is to be served a document, means an electronic means that
         the addressee nominates to the person giving or serving the
         document as the means by which the addressee may be
         notified that such a document has been served on the
         addressee;

      “document” excludes any document to be served in proceedings
         in court;

      “last email address” means the last email address given by the
         addressee concerned to the person giving or serving the
         document as the email address for the service of documents
         under this Act;

      “official website” means a website of a Ministry or department
         of the Government or a public authority prescribed by the
         Minister, by notification in the Gazette, for the purposes of
         this section;

      “residential address” means an individual’s usual or last known
         place of residence in Singapore or outside Singapore.

Notices, etc., to designated officer, etc.

 46. Every notice or information required to be given to a designated
officer, the competent authority, an authorised officer, a police officer
or an enforcement officer under this Act or by a direction, code,
directive, order or notice given under this Act must be given in the
manner —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     43

(a) specified by the direction, code, directive, order or notice,
     if any; or

(b) prescribed by regulations.

                                   PART 10

                POWERS TO OBTAIN INFORMATION

Information for administration

 47. A designated officer, the competent authority or an authorised
officer may, by written notice, require any person to whom a Part 2
direction, a notice of designation as a designated online service, a
code application notice, a rectification notice, an implementation
directive or a Part 6 order may be given to provide, in the form and
manner and within the time specified in the notice, any information
(whether stored in Singapore or outside Singapore) necessary for the
administration of this Act.

Information on online activity in furtherance of specified
offence, etc.

 48.—(1) Where a police officer of or above the rank of sergeant or
an enforcement officer reasonably suspects that —

       (a) a specified offence has been committed; and

       (b) any online activity in furtherance of the offence has
            occurred (whether in Singapore or outside Singapore) on
            or through an online service or through an online account
            or at an online location,

the police officer or enforcement officer (as the case may be) may, by
written notice, require the provider of the online service or the
proprietor of the online location to provide all or any of the following
information (whichever is applicable, whether stored in Singapore or
outside Singapore) in the form and manner and within the time
specified in the notice:

       (c) information about the online activity that occurred on or
            through the provider’s online service or at the proprietor’s
            online location, as the case may be;

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
44  NO. 24 OF 2023

       (d) information about any online account, or the proprietor of
            an online account, through which the online activity was
            conducted;

       (e) any other information to assist in investigations or criminal
            proceedings relating to the specified offence.

 (2) In this section —

      “enforcement officer” means —

              (a) any person who is authorised in writing by the
                   Commissioner of Police for the purposes of this
                   section; or

              (b) any officer of a prescribed law enforcement agency
                   who is authorised in writing, by the head of that law
                   enforcement agency, for the purposes of this section;

      “prescribed law enforcement agency” means a law enforcement
         agency prescribed, by order in the Gazette, by the Minister.

Written notice may be given to persons outside Singapore, etc.

 49. A written notice under section 47 or 48 may be given to —

       (a) any individual whether or not a resident or citizen of
            Singapore, whether physically present in Singapore or
            outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a business or
            operating in Singapore or outside Singapore; or

       (b) any entity whether formed, constituted or registered in
            Singapore or outside Singapore, and whether carrying on a
            business or operating in Singapore or outside Singapore.

                                    PART 11
             OFFENCES, PENALTIES AND DEFENCES
Offences of non-compliance with Part 2 directions
 50.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —
       (a) is given a stop communication direction; and

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     45

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the direction,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.
 (2) A person commits an offence if the person —
       (a) is given a disabling direction; and
       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the direction,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.
 (3) A person commits an offence if the person —
       (a) is given an access blocking direction; and
       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the direction,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.
 (4) A person commits an offence if the person —
       (a) is given an account restriction direction; and
       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the direction,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.
 (5) A person commits an offence if the person —
       (a) is given an app removal direction; and
       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the direction,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.
 (6) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall

be liable on conviction —
       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            2 years or to both; or
       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $500,000.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
46  NO. 24 OF 2023

 (7) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) or (4)
shall be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

 (8) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (3) or (5)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 for every
day or part of a day that the person, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with any requirement of the direction mentioned in that
subsection, but not exceeding in total $500,000.

Offences of non-compliance with rectification notice or
implementation directive

 51.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given a rectification notice; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the notice,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given an implementation directive; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the directive,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (3) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) or (2)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     47

$100,000 for every day or part of a day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

Offences of non-compliance with Part 6 orders

 52.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given a service restriction order; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the service restriction order,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (2) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given an access blocking order; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the access blocking order,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (3) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given an app removal order; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with any
            requirement of the app removal order,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (4) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            12 months or to both and, in the case of a continuing
            offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100,000 for every
            day or part of a day during which the offence continues
            after conviction; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $1 million and, in
            the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not
            exceeding $100,000 for every day or part of a day during
            which the offence continues after conviction.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
48  NO. 24 OF 2023

 (5) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (2) or (3)
shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $20,000 for every
day or part of a day that the person, without reasonable excuse, fails to
comply with the access blocking order or app removal order (as the
case may be), but not exceeding in total $500,000.

Offence of non-compliance with written notice under section 47
or 48

 53.—(1) A person commits an offence if the person —

       (a) is given a written notice under section 47 or 48; and

       (b) without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with that
            written notice,

whether in Singapore or outside Singapore.

 (2) A person who is guilty of an offence under subsection (1) shall
be liable on conviction —

       (a) if the person is an individual, to a fine not exceeding
            $5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
            6 months or to both; or

       (b) in any other case, to a fine not exceeding $10,000.

Defences

 54.—(1) It is not a defence to a charge for an offence under
section 50, 52 or 53 that —

       (a) the person is subject to a duty under any written law, any
            rule of law, any contract or any rule of professional
            conduct, that prevents or restricts the person from
            complying with a requirement of the Part 2 direction, the
            Part 6 order or the written notice under section 47 or 48, as
            the case may be; or

       (b) the person has applied for a reconsideration of, or has
            appealed against, the Part 2 direction or the Part 6 order, as
            the case may be.

 (2) It is not a defence to a charge for an offence under section 51
that —

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     49

       (a) the person is subject to a duty of confidentiality or privacy
            imposed by any rule of law or a duty imposed by any
            contract or any rule of professional conduct, that prevents
            or restricts the person from complying with a requirement
            of the rectification notice, the implementation directive or
            the code of practice concerned, as the case may be; or

       (b) the person has appealed against the decision to designate
            the person’s online service, the decision to give a code
            application notice to the person, a requirement of the
            implementation directive or a requirement of the code of
            practice concerned or a variation thereof, as the case may
            be.

 (3) Without limiting the meaning of “reasonable excuse”, it is a
defence to a charge for an offence under this Part (except in relation to
a stop communication direction) if the accused proves, on a balance
of probabilities, that —

       (a) it was not reasonably practicable to do more than what was
            in fact done to comply with the Part 2 direction,
            rectification notice, implementation directive or Part 6
            order, as the case may be; or

       (b) there was no better practicable means than was in fact used.

Arrestable and bailable offences

 55.—(1) Every offence as follows is arrestable and is non‑bailable
for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure Code 2010:

       (a) an offence under section 50, 51 or 52;

       (b) an abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an
            offence mentioned in paragraph (a).

 (2) Every offence as follows is bailable for the purposes of the
Criminal Procedure Code 2010:

       (a) an offence under section 53;

       (b) an abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an
            offence mentioned in paragraph (a).

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
50  NO. 24 OF 2023

Jurisdiction of courts

 56.—(1) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a person
outside Singapore, the person may be dealt with in respect of that
offence as if it had been committed wholly within Singapore.

 (2) Despite the Criminal Procedure Code 2010, a District Court or a
Magistrate’s Court has jurisdiction to try any offence under this Act
and has power to impose the full punishment for any such offence.

                                   PART 12

                                  GENERAL

Immunity

 57.—(1) No person or officer, employee or agent of the person shall
incur any civil or criminal liability under any written law or rule of
law, or be liable for any breach of confidence or to any disciplinary
action by a professional body, for doing or omitting to do any act, if
the act is done or omitted to be done with reasonable care and in good
faith and for the purpose of complying with or giving effect to —

       (a) any Part 2 direction given to the person;

       (b) any requirement of a code of practice applicable to the
            person;

       (c) any rectification notice given to the person;

       (d) any implementation directive given to the person;

       (e) any Part 6 order given to the person; or

        (f) any written notice under section 47 or 48 given to the
            person.

 (2) No liability shall lie against a designated officer, the competent
authority, an authorised officer, a police officer or an enforcement
officer, the Secretary to the Reviewing Tribunals or a member of an
Appeals Advisory Committee for anything done or intended to be
done with reasonable care and in good faith in the execution or
purported execution of this Act.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     51

General exemption

 58. The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, exempt any person
or class of persons from all or any of the provisions of this Act, either
generally or in a particular case and subject to the conditions that the
Minister may impose.

Amendment of Schedules

 59.—(1) The Minister may, by order in the Gazette, amend, add to
or vary the Schedules.

 (2) The Minister may, in an order under subsection (1), make
provisions of a saving or transitional nature consequent on the
enactment of the order that the Minister may consider necessary or
expedient.

 (3) All orders made under subsection (1) must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Regulations

 60.—(1) The Minister may make regulations necessary or
convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this
Act.

 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), the regulations may —

       (a) provide practical guidance or certainty in respect of any
            one or more of the requirements of a code of practice;

       (b) provide for anything that may be prescribed under this Act;

       (c) create offences which may be punishable with a fine not
            exceeding $5,000; and

       (d) provide for such saving, transitional and other
            consequential provisions as the Minister considers
            necessary or expedient.

 (3) All regulations made under this section must be presented to
Parliament as soon as possible after publication in the Gazette.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
52  NO. 24 OF 2023

                             FIRST SCHEDULE

                                                                                                          Section 2(1)

                       SPECIFIED OFFENCES AND SCAM OR
                    MALICIOUS CYBER ACTIVITY OFFENCES

                                            PART 1
                                  SPECIFIED OFFENCES
   1. Offences under the Arms and Explosives Act 1913.
   2. Offences under the Arms Offences Act 1973.
   3. Offences under Part 11 of the Casino Control Act 2006.
   4. Offences under the Chemical Weapons (Prohibition) Act 2000.
   5. Offences under Part 2 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1993.
   6. Offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1993.
   7. Offences under the Corrosive and Explosive Substances and Offensive
       Weapons Act 1958.
   8. Offences under Parts 6 and 7 of the Corruption, Drug Trafficking and Other
       Serious Crimes (Confiscation of Benefits) Act 1992.
   9. Offences under the Dangerous Fireworks Act 1972.
  10. Offences under the Explosive Substances Act 1924.
  11. Offences under Parts 2 and 6 of the Gambling Control Act 2022.
  12. Offences under the Guns, Explosives and Weapons Control Act 2021.
  13. Offences under the Hijacking of Aircraft and Protection of Aircraft and
       International Airports Act 1978.
  14. Offences under the Hostage-Taking Act 2010.
  15. Offences under sections 57, 57B and 57C of the Immigration Act 1959.
  16. Offences under the Infrastructure Protection Act 2017.
  17. Offences under the Internal Security Act 1960.
  18. Offences under Part 2 of the Intoxicating Substances Act 1987.
  19. Offences under the Kidnapping Act 1961.
19A. Offences under the Maintenance of Racial Harmony Act 2025.

                                                                                [Act 10 of 2025 wef 15/09/2026]

  20. Offences under the Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act 1990.
  21. Offences under the Maritime Offences Act 2003.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     53

                             FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

  22. Offences under sections 14A, 14D, 14E, 20 and 27A of the Miscellaneous
       Offences (Public Order and Nuisance) Act 1906.

                                                                                     [S 559/2026 wef 17/08/2026]

  23. Offences under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1973.

  24. Offences under —

         (a) sections 19, 25, 27, 47, 49 and 50 of the Moneylenders Act 2008; and

         (b) rules made under section 93 of that Act to provide for —

                   (i) the detection and prevention of money laundering, terrorism
                       financing or the financing of proliferation of weapons of mass
                       destruction; or

                  (ii) the reporting of transactions suspected of involving money
                       laundering, terrorism financing or the financing of proliferation
                       of weapons of mass destruction.

                                                                                     [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

  25. Offences under section 16(1)(e), (2) and (3) of the National Registration
       Act 1965.

  26. Offences under the Official Secrets Act 1935.

  27. Offences under Part 2 of the Organised Crime Act 2015.

  28. Offences under Part 5 of the Passports Act 2007.

  29. Offences under the Penal Code 1871 (except Chapters 5, 5A and 23).

29A. Offences under section 16(1) for a contravention of section 5 or 9(1) or (3)
       and section 19 of the Poisons Act 1938.

                                                                                     [S 561/2025 wef 01/09/2025]

  30. Offences under the Precious Stones and Precious Metals (Prevention of
       Money Laundering, Terrorism Financing and Proliferation Financing)
       Act 2019 (except Part 3).

                                                                                     [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

  31. Offences under the Prevention of Human Trafficking Act 2014.

  32. Offences under Part 2 of the Protection from Harassment Act 2014.

  33. Offences under the Public Order Act 2009 (except section 6A) and any
       regulations made under section 47(3)(a) of that Act.

  34. Offences under the Public Order and Safety (Special Powers) Act 2018.

  35. Offence under section 50 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act 2021.

  36. Offence under section 116 of the Road Traffic Act 1961.

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
54  NO. 24 OF 2023

                               FIRST SCHEDULE — continued

    37. Offences under sections 14 to 18 and 23 of the Societies Act 1966.

    38. Offences under sections 3 and 4 of the Terrorism (Suppression of Bombings)
         Act 2007.

    39. Offences under the Terrorism (Suppression of Financing) Act 2002.

    40. Offences under the Terrorism (Suppression of Misuse of Radioactive
         Material) Act 2017.

40AA. Offences under sections 3, 9, 9A, 10, 15, 16, 16A, 19B, 19C, 19H and 19I of
         the Tobacco and Vaporisers Control Act 1993.

                                                                                       [S 257/2026 wef 01/05/2026]

  40A. Offences under sections 3, 9, 9A, 10, 15 and 16 of the Tobacco (Control of
         Advertisements and Sale) Act 1993 (as in force immediately before 1 May
         2026).

                                                                                       [S 561/2025 wef 01/09/2025]

                                                                                       [S 257/2026 wef 01/05/2026]

    41. Offences prescribed by regulations made under section 2(1) of the United
         Nations Act 2001.

    42. Offences under the Vandalism Act 1966.

    43. Offences under sections 60A, 61 and 62 and Part 11 (except sections 170,
         171, 173, 174 and 178) of the Women’s Charter 1961.

                                                                                       [S 986/2024 wef 02/01/2025]

    44. Offences under any written law relating to the unauthorised use, disclosure
         or communication of documents or information —

           (a) under the control of a Singapore public sector agency (as defined in the
                Public Sector (Governance) Act 2018); or

           (b) obtained by a Singapore public sector agency pursuant to written law.

    45. An abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an offence mentioned
         in items 1 to 44.

                                         PART 2

         SCAM OR MALICIOUS CYBER ACTIVITY OFFENCES

1. Offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1993.

2. Offences under Chapters 12 and 18 and sections 170, 383 to 389, 405 to 409,
   415 to 420A, 424A and 424B of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                  [S 42/2024 wef 01/02/2024]
                                                                                [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
ONLINE CRIMINAL HARMS                                     55

                           FIRST SCHEDULE — continued
2A. The following offences under the Securities and Futures Act 2001:

       (a) offences under section 204 for contravention of section 197, 199, 200,
            201, 201A, 201B or 202;

       (b) offences under section 210 for contravention of section 207 or 209.

                                                                                   [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

  3. An abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an offence mentioned
     in items 1, 2 and 2A.

                                                                                   [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

                          SECOND SCHEDULE

                                                                                          Sections 2(1) and 19(1)

                                   OFFENCE GROUPS
                                           PART 1

      SCAM OR MALICIOUS CYBER ACTIVITY OFFENCE GROUP
  1. Offences under the Computer Misuse Act 1993.
  2. Offences under Chapters 12 and 18 and sections 170, 383 to 389, 405 to 409,

     415 to 420A and 424A of the Penal Code 1871.

                                                                                   [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

2A. The following offences under the Securities and Futures Act 2001:
       (a) offences under section 204 for contravention of section 197, 199, 200,
            201, 201A, 201B or 202;
       (b) offences under section 210 for contravention of section 207 or 209.

                                                                                   [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

  3. An abetment, or a conspiracy or an attempt to commit an offence mentioned
     in items 1, 2 and 2A.

                                                                                   [S 527/2024 wef 24/06/2024]

                            THIRD SCHEDULE

                                                                                                   Section 19(1)(b)

           PURPOSES OF SYSTEMS, PROCESSES OR MEASURES
  1. To minimise the exposure of Singapore end-users of a designated provider’s

     service to scam or malicious cyber activities.
  2. To verify the authenticity of accounts on a designated provider’s service, and

     detect and safeguard against —

Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
56  NO. 24 OF 2023

                        THIRD SCHEDULE — continued

     (a) the creation of inauthentic accounts and misuse of accounts on a
          designated provider’s service;

     (b) the misrepresentation of identity of any end-user of a designated
          provider’s service; and

     (c) the misuse of any bots that conduct online activity on or through a
          designated provider’s service.

3. To receive information from Singapore end-users of a designated provider’s
   service on suspected scam or malicious cyber activities.

4. To facilitate information sharing between the competent authority and a
   designated provider on suspected scam or malicious cyber activities.

5. To act on information received from the competent authority and Singapore
   end-users of a designated provider’s service to proactively detect, prevent
   and disrupt scam or malicious cyber activities.

6. To facilitate criminal investigations into scam or malicious cyber activities,
   including the maintenance, preservation and provision of records.

7. To provide payment protection mechanisms for online payments (if any)
   conducted through a designated provider’s service.

8. To facilitate the administration of this Act by the competent authority,
   including the provision of relevant information to the competent authority,
   such as the following:

     (a) details of systems, processes or measures taken or being considered by
          a designated provider to comply with Part 4 or against scam or
          malicious cyber activities;

     (b) details of scam or malicious cyber activities encountered on a
          designated provider’s service and identification of new tactics
          observed.

    Informal Consolidation – version in force from 15/9/2026
